Item 1A.    Risk Factors.



This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements that are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties including the risks discussed below. The risks discussed below are not the only ones facing our
business. Please read the cautionary notice regarding forward-looking statements in Item 7 under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation”.



If the average rates that commercial payors pay us decline significantly, it
would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



Approximately 35% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 were generated from patients who have commercial payors as the primary payor. The majority of
these patients have insurance policies that pay us on terms and at rates that are generally significantly higher than Medicare rates. The payments we receive from commercial payors generate nearly all of our profit and all of our nonacute dialysis
profits come from commercial payors. We continue to experience downward pressure on some of our commercial payment rates and it is possible that commercial payment rates could be materially lower in the future. The downward pressure on commercial
payment rates is a result of general conditions in the market, recent and future consolidations among commercial payors, increased focus on dialysis services and other factors.





If the number of patients with
higher-paying commercial insurance declines, then our revenues, earnings and cash flows would be substantially reduced.



Our revenue levels are sensitive to the percentage of our patients with higher-paying commercial insurance coverage. A patient’s
insurance coverage may change for a number of reasons, including changes in the patient’s or a family member’s employment status. Currently, for a patient covered by an employer group health plan, Medicare generally becomes the primary
payor after 33 months, or earlier, if the patient’s employer group health plan coverage terminates. When Medicare becomes the primary payor, the payment rate we receive for that patient shifts from the employer group health plan rate to the
lower Medicare payment rate. We have seen an increase in the number of patients who have government-based programs as their primary payors which we believe is largely as a result of improved mortality and the current economic recession which has a
negative impact on the percentage of patients covered under commercial insurance plans. To the extent there are sustained or increased job losses in the United States as a result of current economic conditions, we could experience a decrease in the
number of patients under commercial plans. We could also experience a further decrease if







changes to the healthcare regulatory system result in fewer patients covered under commercial plans. In addition, our continued negotiations with commercial payors could result in a decrease in
the number of patients under commercial plans to the extent that we cannot reach agreement with commercial payors on rates and other terms. If there is a significant reduction in the number of patients under higher-paying commercial plans relative
to government-based programs that pay at lower rates, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



Changes in the structure of, and payment rates under the Medicare ESRD program, including the implementation of a bundled payment system under MIPPA and
other healthcare reform initiatives, could substantially reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



Approximately one-half of our dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 was generated from
patients who have Medicare as their primary payor. Currently, the Medicare ESRD program pays us for dialysis treatment services at a fixed composite rate. The Medicare composite rate is the payment rate for a dialysis treatment including the
supplies used in those treatments, specified laboratory tests and certain pharmaceuticals. Certain other pharmaceuticals, including EPO, vitamin D analogs and iron supplements, as well as certain specialized laboratory tests, are separately billed.





In addition, ongoing public policy debates regarding healthcare reform and the extension of coverage to
uninsured individuals has recently intensified. While we cannot predict whether the federal government will







enact changes to the healthcare regulatory system in response to the current debate or the potential impact of any such changes, to the extent that any changes to the current healthcare
regulatory system result in a reduction in patients covered by commercial insurance or a reduction in reimbursement rates for our services from commercial and/or government payors, our revenues, earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected.



Changes in state Medicaid or other non-Medicare
government-based programs or payment rates could reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows.





In addition, some state Medicaid program eligibility
requirements mandate that citizen enrollees in such programs provide documented proof of citizenship. If our patients cannot meet these proof of citizenship documentation requirements, they may be denied coverage under these programs. If state
Medicaid or other non-Medicare government programs reduce the rates paid by these programs for dialysis and related services, delay the timing of payment for services provided, further limit eligibility for coverage or adopt changes to their payment
structure which reduces our overall payments from these state Medicaid or non-Medicare government programs, then our revenues, earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected.



Changes in clinical practices, payment rates or regulations impacting EPO and other pharmaceuticals could substantially
reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



The administration of EPO and other pharmaceuticals accounted for approximately 30% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, with EPO accounting for approximately 20% of our dialysis and
related lab services revenues for the same period. Changes in clinical practices that result in further decreased utilization of prescribed pharmaceuticals or changes in payment rates for those pharmaceuticals could substantially reduce our
revenues, earnings and cash flows.



Since late 2006, there has been significant media discussion and government scrutiny regarding anemia management practices in the United States which has created confusion and concern in the nephrology community. In late 2006, the House
Ways and Means Committee held a hearing on the issue of the utilization of erythropoeisis stimulating agents, or ESAs, which include EPO, and in 2007, the FDA required changes to the labeling of EPO and Aranesp®to include a black box warning, the FDA’s strongest form of warning label. The FDA held additional hearings to
revisit these label changes as they apply to ESRD and has indicated that they









Changes in EPO pricing could materially reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows and affect our ability to care for our patients.



Amgen Inc. is the sole supplier of EPO and may unilaterally decide to increase its price for EPO at any time
during the term of our agreement with Amgen. Future increases in the cost of EPO without corresponding increases in payment rates for EPO could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows and ultimately reduce our income. Our
agreement with Amgen for EPO includes potential rebates which depend upon the achievement of certain criteria. We cannot predict whether we will continue to receive the rebates for EPO that we currently receive, or whether we will continue to
achieve the same levels of rebates within that structure as we have historically achieved. Our agreement with Amgen provides for specific rebates off of list price based on a combination of factors, including process improvement and data submission.
Factors that could impact our ability to qualify for rebates provided for in our agreement with Amgen in the future include our ability to develop and implement certain process improvements and track certain data elements. Failure to meet certain
targets and earn the specified rebates could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. Our agreement with Amgen terminates on December 31, 2010. We cannot predict whether any new agreement with Amgen will include the same
or similar rebates as provided in our current agreement.



We
are the subject of a number of inquiries by the federal government, any of which could result in substantial penalties against us.



We are the subject of a number of inquiries by the federal government. We have received subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for
the Northern District of Georgia, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Missouri and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Texas. We are cooperating with the U.S. Attorney’s Offices with respect to
each of the subpoenas and producing the requested records. Any negative findings could result in substantial financial penalties against us, exclusion from future participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs and, in certain cases, criminal
penalties. To our knowledge, no proceedings have been initiated by the federal government against us at this time. Although we cannot predict whether or when proceedings might be initiated by the federal government or when these matters may be
resolved, it is not unusual for investigations such as these to continue for a considerable period of time. Responding to the subpoenas will continue to require management’s attention and significant legal expense. See Note 16 to our
consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these inquiries and subpoenas.







Continued inquiries from various governmental bodies with respect to our utilization of EPO and other
pharmaceuticals will require management’s attention, cause us to incur significant legal expense and could result in substantial financial penalties against us or exclusion from future participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and
could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



®

®



If we fail to adhere to all of the complex government regulations that apply
to our business, we could suffer severe consequences that would substantially reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



Our dialysis operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local government regulations, including Medicare and Medicaid payment
rules and regulations, federal and state anti-kickback laws, the Stark Law physician self-referral prohibition and analogous state referral statutes, the federal False Claims Act, or FCA, and federal and state laws regarding the collection, use and
disclosure of patient health information. The Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rules related to claims submission, licensing requirements, cost reporting, and payment processes impose complex and extensive requirements upon dialysis providers. A
violation or departure from any of these requirements may result in government audits, lower reimbursements, significant fines and penalties, the potential loss of certification and recoupments or voluntary repayments.



The regulatory scrutiny of healthcare providers, including
dialysis providers continues to increase. Medicare has increased the frequency and intensity of its certification inspections of dialysis centers. For example, we are required to provide substantial documentation related to the administration of
pharmaceuticals, including EPO, and, to the extent that any such documentation is found insufficient, we may be required to refund any amounts received from such administration by government or commercial payors, and be subject to substantial
penalties under applicable laws or regulations. In addition, fiscal intermediaries have increased their prepayment and post-payment reviews.



We endeavor to comply with all of the requirements for receiving Medicare and Medicaid payments and to structure all of our relationships
with referring physicians to comply with state and federal anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral law (Stark Law). However, the laws and regulations in this area are complex and subject to varying interpretations. For example, if an
enforcement agency were to challenge the level of compensation that we pay our medical directors, we could be required to change our practices, face criminal or civil penalties, pay substantial fines or otherwise experience a material adverse effect
as a result of a challenge to







these arrangements. In addition, recent amendments to the FCA impose severe penalties for the knowing and improper retention of overpayments collected from government payors. These amendments
could subject our procedures for identifying and processing overpayments to greater scrutiny. We have made significant investments in additional resources to accelerate the time it takes to identify and process overpayments and we may be required to
make additional investments in the future. An acceleration in our ability to identify and process overpayments could result in us refunding overpayments to government or other payors sooner than we have in the past. A significant acceleration of
these refunds could have a material adverse affect on our operating cash flows.



If any of our operations are found to violate these or other government regulations, we could suffer severe consequences that would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows
including:



•Suspension or termination of our participation in government payment programs;

•Refunds of amounts received in violation of law or applicable payment program requirements;

•Loss of required government certifications or exclusion from government payment programs;

•Loss of licenses required to operate healthcare facilities in some of the states in which we operate;

•Reductions in payment rates or coverage for dialysis and ancillary services and related pharmaceuticals;

•Fines, damages or monetary penalties for anti-kickback law violations, Stark Law violations, FCA violations, civil or criminal liability based on
violations of law, or other failures to meet regulatory requirements;

•Claims for monetary damages from patients who believe their protected health information has been used or disclosed in violation of federal or state
patient privacy laws;

•Mandated practice changes that significantly increase operating expenses; and

•Termination of relationships with medical directors.



Delays in state Medicare and Medicaid certification of our dialysis centers could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



Before we can begin billing for patients
treated in our outpatient dialysis centers who are enrolled in government-based programs, we are required to obtain state and federal certification for participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. As state governments face increasing
budgetary pressure, certain states are having difficulty certifying dialysis centers in the normal course resulting in significant delays in certification. If state governments continue to have difficulty certifying new centers in the normal course
and we continue to experience significant delays in our ability to treat and bill for services provided to patients covered under government programs, it could cause us to incur write-offs of investments or accelerate the recognition of lease
obligations in the event we have to close centers or our centers’ operating performance deteriorates, and it could have an adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



If our joint ventures were found to violate the law, we could suffer severe consequences that would have a material adverse
effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



As of December 31, 2009, we owned a controlling interest in numerous dialysis related joint ventures, which represented approximately 16% of our dialysis and related lab services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. In
addition, we also owned equity interests in several other dialysis related joint ventures. We anticipate that we will continue to increase the number of our joint ventures. Many of our joint ventures with physicians or physician groups also have the
physician owners providing medical director services to those centers or other centers we own and operate. Because our relationships with physicians are governed by the federal anti-kickback statute, we have sought to structure our joint venture
arrangements to satisfy as many safe harbor requirements as we believe are reasonably possible. However, our joint venture arrangements do not satisfy all elements of any safe harbor under the federal anti-kickback statute. The subpoena and related
requests for documents we received from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Missouri included requests for documents related to our joint ventures. See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for additional
information regarding these inquiries and subpoenas.







If our joint ventures are found to be in violation of the anti-kickback statute or the Stark
Law provisions, we could be required to restructure the joint ventures or refuse to accept referrals for designated health services from the physicians with whom the joint venture centers have a financial relationship.



We also could be required to repay amounts received by the joint
ventures from Medicare and certain other payors to the extent that these arrangements are found to give rise to prohibited referrals, and we could be subject to monetary penalties and exclusion from government healthcare programs. If our joint
venture centers are subject to any of these penalties, we could suffer severe consequences that would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



There are significant estimating risks associated with the amount of dialysis revenue and related refund liabilities that we
recognize and if we are unable to accurately estimate our revenue and related refund liabilities, it could impact the timing of our revenue recognition or have a significant impact on our operating results.





The
ancillary services we provide or the strategic initiatives we invest in may generate losses and may ultimately be unsuccessful. In the event that one or more of these activities is unsuccessful, we may have to write off our investment and incur
other exit costs.



Our ancillary services and
strategic initiatives include pharmacy services, infusion therapy services, disease management services, vascular access services, ESRD clinical research programs and physician services. Many of these initiatives require investments of both
management and financial resources and can generate significant losses for a substantial period of time and may not become profitable. There can be no assurance that any such strategic initiative will ultimately be successful. Any significant change
in market conditions, business performance or in the regulatory environment may impact the economic viability of any of these strategic initiatives. For example, during 2009 and 2008, several of our strategic initiatives generated net operating
losses and are expected to generate net operating losses in 2010. If any of our ancillary services or strategic initiatives do not perform as planned, we may incur a material write-off or an impairment of our investment, including goodwill, in one
or more of these activities or we could incur significant termination costs if we were to exit a certain line of business.



If a significant number of physicians were to cease referring patients to our dialysis centers, whether due to regulatory or other reasons, it would have
a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



We believe that physicians prefer to have their patients treated at dialysis centers where they or other members of their practice supervise the overall care provided as medical director of the center. As
a result, the







primary referral source for most of our centers is often the physician or physician group providing medical director services to the center. Neither our current nor former medical directors have
an obligation to refer their patients to our centers. If a medical director agreement terminates, whether before or at the end of its term, and a new medical director is appointed, it may negatively impact the former medical director’s decision
to treat his or her patients at our center. If we are unable to enforce noncompetition provisions contained in the terminated medical director agreements, former medical directors may choose to provide medical director services for competing
providers or establish their own dialysis centers in competition with ours. Also, if the quality of service levels at our centers deteriorates, it may negatively impact patient referrals and treatment volumes.



Our medical director contracts are for fixed periods, generally
three to ten years. Medical directors have no obligation to extend their agreements with us. We may take actions to restructure existing relationships or take positions in negotiating extensions of relationships to assure compliance with the safe
harbor provisions of the anti-kickback statute, Stark Law and other similar laws. These actions could negatively impact the decision of physicians to extend their medical director agreements with us or to refer their patients to us. If the terms of
any existing agreement are found to violate applicable laws, we may not be successful in restructuring the relationship which could lead to the early termination of the agreement, or cause the physician to stop referring patients to our dialysis
centers. If a significant number of physicians were to cease referring patients to our dialysis centers, whether due to regulatory or other reasons, then our revenues, earnings and cash flows would be substantially reduced.



Current economic conditions, including the current recession, as well as
further disruptions in the financial markets could result in substantial declines in our revenues, earnings, cash flows and financial condition.





If we are not able to continue to make acquisitions on reasonable terms, or maintain an acceptable level of non-acquired growth, or if we face significant
patient attrition to our competitors, it could adversely affect our business.



The dialysis industry is highly competitive, particularly in terms of acquiring existing dialysis centers. We continue to face increased competition in the dialysis industry from large and medium-sized
providers which compete directly with us for acquisition targets as well as for individual patients and medical directors. Acquisitions, patient retention and medical director retention are an important part of our growth strategy. Because of the
ease of entry into the dialysis business and the ability of physicians to be medical directors for their own centers, competition for growth in existing and expanding markets is not limited to large competitors with substantial financial resources.
Occasionally, we have experienced competition from former medical directors or referring physicians who have opened their own dialysis centers. In addition, Fresenius, our largest competitor, manufactures a full line of dialysis supplies and
equipment in addition to owning and operating







dialysis centers. This may give them cost advantages over us because of their ability to manufacture their own products. If we are not able to continue to make acquisitions on reasonable terms,
continue to maintain acceptable levels of non-acquired growth, or if we face significant patient attrition to our competitors, it could adversely affect our business.



The level of our current and future debt could have an adverse impact on our business and our ability to generate cash to
service our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control.



We have substantial debt outstanding and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The high level of our indebtedness, among other things, could:



•make it difficult for us to make payments on our debt securities;

•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our
cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes;

•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate;

•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and

•limit our ability to borrow additional funds.



Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion
efforts, including any strategic acquisitions we may make in the future, will depend on our ability to generate cash. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our
control.



We cannot provide assurance that our
business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. Our Senior Secured Credit
Facilities are secured by substantially all of our and our wholly-owned subsidiaries’ assets. As such, our ability to refinance our debt or seek additional financing could be limited by such security interest. We cannot assure you that we will
be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If additional debt financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business
opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or refinance maturing debt, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.



Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and adversely affect our profitability and cash flow and our
ability to service our indebtedness.



We are
subject to interest rate volatility associated with the portions of our borrowings that bear interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.9 billion outstanding borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit
Facilities, which bears interest at a variable rate. Approximately $0.4 billion of this outstanding debt is subject to interest rate swaps which have the economic effect of fixing the interest rate on an equivalent portion of our debt. The remaining
variable rate debt outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities had a weighted average interest rate of 1.74% at December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the interest rates were economically fixed on approximately 21% of our
variable rate debt and approximately 59% of our total debt. In addition, we have approximately $198 million of available borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities that would bear interest at the LIBOR-based variable rate plus an interest
rate margin of 1.50%. We may also incur additional variable rate debt in the future.



Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense for the variable portion of our indebtedness, which could negatively impact our earnings and cash flow. For example, it is estimated that a
hypothetical







increase in interest rates of 100 basis points across all variable rate maturities would reduce net income by approximately $9.9 million, for the next twelve months given our current interest
rates in effect at December 31, 2009. See “Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for more information. In addition, if we seek to refinance our existing indebtedness under our Senior Secured Credit
Facilities, we may not be able to do so on acceptable terms and conditions, which could increase our interest expense or impair our ability to service our indebtedness and fund our operations.



If there are shortages of skilled clinical personnel or if we experience a
higher than normal turnover rate, we may experience disruptions in our business operations and increases in operating expenses.



We are experiencing increased labor costs and difficulties in hiring nurses due to a nationwide shortage of skilled clinical personnel. We
compete for nurses with hospitals and other health care providers. This nursing shortage may limit our ability to expand our operations. In addition, changes in certification requirements for skilled clinical personnel can impact our ability to
maintain sufficient staff levels to the extent our teammates are not able to meet new requirements or competition for qualified individuals increases. If we are unable to hire skilled clinical personnel when needed, or if we experience a higher than
normal turnover rate for our skilled clinical personnel, our operations and treatment growth will be negatively impacted, which would result in reduced revenues, earnings and cash flows.



Our business is labor intensive and could be adversely affected if we were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with
our employees or if union organizing activities were to result in significant increases in our operating costs or decreases in productivity.



Our business is labor intensive, and our results are subject to variations in labor-related costs and productivity. If political efforts at
the national and local level result in actions or proposals that increase the likelihood of union organizing activities at our facilities or if union organizing activities increase for other reasons, our operating costs could increase and our
employee relations, productivity, earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected.



Upgrades to our billing and collections systems and complications associated with upgrades and other improvements to our billing and collections systems could have a material adverse effect on our
revenues, cash flows and operating results.



We are continuously performing upgrades to our billing systems and expect to continue to do so during 2010. In addition, we continuously work to improve our billing and collections performance through process upgrades, organizational
changes and other improvements. We may experience difficulties in our ability to successfully bill and collect for services rendered as a result of these changes, including a slow-down of collections, a reduction in the amounts we expect to collect,
increased risk of retractions from and refunds to commercial and government payors, an increase in our provision for uncollectible accounts receivable and noncompliance with reimbursement regulations. The failure to successfully implement the
upgrades to the billing and collection systems and other improvements could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and operating results.



Our ability to effectively provide the services we offer could be negatively impacted if certain of our suppliers are unable to meet our needs or if we
are unable to effectively access new technology, which could substantially reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



We have significant suppliers that are either the sole or primary source of products critical to the services we provide, including Amgen,
Fresenius Medical Care, Baxter Healthcare Corporation, NxStage Medical, Inc. and others or to which we have committed obligations to make purchases including Gambro Renal Products. If any of these suppliers are unable to meet our needs for the
products they supply, including in the event of a product recall, and we are not able to find adequate alternative sources, our revenues, earnings and cash flows could be







substantially reduced. For example, a recall of heparin by Baxter Healthcare Corporation in 2008 resulted in only one remaining supplier of heparin and the cost to purchase heparin significantly
increased. While an alternative supplier has entered the market, it is possible that our heparin costs may continue to increase and since there is no separate reimbursement for this drug under Medicare, cost increases have a direct impact on our
profitability. In addition, the technology related to the products critical to the services we provide is subject to new developments and may result in superior products. If we are not able to access superior products on a cost-effective basis or if
suppliers are not able to fulfill our requirements for such products, we could face patient attrition which could substantially reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



We may be subject to liability claims for damages and other expenses not covered by insurance that could reduce our earnings
and cash flows.



The administration of
dialysis and related services to patients may subject us to litigation and liability for damages. Our business, profitability and growth prospects could suffer if we face negative publicity or we pay damages or defense costs in connection with a
claim that is outside the scope of any applicable insurance coverage, including claims related to adverse patient events, contractual disputes and professional and general liability claims. In addition, we have received several notices of claims
from commercial payors and other third parties related to our historical billing practices and the historical billing practices of the centers acquired from Gambro Healthcare and other matters related to their settlement agreement with the
Department of Justice. Although the ultimate outcome of these claims cannot be predicted, an adverse result with respect to one or more of these claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash
flows. We currently maintain programs of general and professional liability insurance. However, a successful claim, including a professional liability, malpractice or negligence claim which is in excess of our insurance coverage could have a
material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows.



In addition, if our costs of insurance and claims increase, then our earnings could decline. Market rates for insurance premiums and deductibles have been steadily increasing. Our earnings and cash flows could be materially and adversely
affected by any of the following:



•the collapse or insolvency of our insurance carriers;

•further increases in premiums and deductibles;

•increases in the number of liability claims against us or the cost of settling or trying cases related to those claims; and

•an inability to obtain one or more types of insurance on acceptable terms.







If businesses we acquire have liabilities that we are not aware of, we could suffer severe consequences
that would substantially reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



Our business strategy includes the acquisition of dialysis centers and businesses that own and operate dialysis centers, as well as other ancillary services and strategic initiatives. Businesses we
acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities or liabilities that are in excess of the amounts that we originally estimated. Although we generally seek indemnification from the sellers of businesses we acquire for matters that are not properly
disclosed to us, we are not always successful. In addition, even in cases where we are able to obtain indemnification, we may discover liabilities greater than the contractual limits or the financial resources of the indemnifying party. In the event
that we are responsible for liabilities substantially in excess of any amounts recovered through rights to indemnification, we could suffer severe consequences that would substantially reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows.



Provisions in our charter documents, compensation programs and Delaware law
may deter a change of control that our stockholders would otherwise determine to be in their best interests.



Our charter documents include provisions that may deter hostile takeovers, delay or prevent changes of control or changes in our management,
or limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they may otherwise determine to be in their best interests. These include provisions prohibiting our stockholders from acting by written consent; requiring 90 days advance notice
of stockholder proposals or nominations to our Board of Directors; and granting our Board of Directors the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the rights and preferences of the preferred stock without the need for further stockholder
approval. In addition, we have in place a shareholder rights plan that would substantially dilute the interest sought by an acquirer that our Board of Directors does not approve.



Most of our outstanding employee stock options include a provision accelerating the vesting of the options in
the event of a change of control. We also maintain a change of control protection program for our employees who do not have a significant number of stock awards, which has been in place since 2001, and which provides for cash bonuses to the
employees in the event of a change of control. Based on the market price of our common stock and shares outstanding on December 31, 2009, these cash bonuses would total approximately $235 million if a change of control transaction occurred at
that price and our Board of Directors did not modify this program. These change of control provisions may affect the price an acquirer would be willing to pay for our Company.



We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, subject to exceptions,
would prohibit us from engaging in any business combinations with any interested stockholder, as defined in that section, for a period of three years following the date on which that stockholder became an interested stockholder.



These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition
of our Company at a price that our stockholders may find attractive. These provisions could also make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions and could limit the price that investors might be
willing to pay for shares of our common stock.



