10-K


a05-1733_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION
13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended:  December 31,

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from
                                   
to

Commission File Number:  1-11954

VORNADO
REALTY TRUST

(Exact name of Registrant as
specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone number including area code:

(212) 894-7000

Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant:
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.  YES

ý

NO

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an
accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2). YES

ý

NO

o

Aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting
common shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant, i.e. by persons other
than officers and trustees of Vornado Realty Trust as reflected in the table in
Item 12 of this Form 10-K at June 30, 2004 was $5,790,469,000.

As of February 1, 2005, there were 127,819,849 of the
registrant’s common shares of beneficial interest outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Part III

:  Portions of Proxy Statement for Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 18, 2005.



(1)

The
Registrant will file a definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation 14A
involving the election of trustees with the Securities and Exchange Commission
not later than 120 days after December 31, 2004, portions of which are
incorporated by reference herein. Information relating to Executive Officers of
the Registrant appears on page 49 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain
statements contained herein constitute forward-looking statements as such term
is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
“Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the “Exchange Act”). 
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.  Our future results, financial condition and
business may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking
statements.   You can find many of these
statements by looking for words such as “plans,” “intends,” “estimates,”
“anticipates,” “expects,” “believes” or similar expressions in this annual
report on Form 10-K.  These
forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and
uncertainties.  Many of the factors that
will determine these items are beyond our ability to control or predict.  For further discussion of these factors see
“Item 1. Business – Certain Factors That May Adversely Affect Our Business and
Operations” in this annual report on Form 10-K.

For
these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for
forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.  You are cautioned
not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only
as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K or the date of any
document incorporated by reference.  All
subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or
any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by
the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section.  We do not undertake any obligation to release
publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or
circumstances after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K.


PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

THE
COMPANY

Vornado
Realty Trust is a fully-integrated real estate investment trust (“REIT”) and
conducts its business through Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware limited
partnership (the “Operating Partnership”). 
All references to “We,” “Us,” 
“Company” and “Vornado” refer to Vornado Realty Trust and its
consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership.  Vornado is the sole general partner of, and
owned approximately 87% of the common limited partnership interest in, the
Operating Partnership at December 31, 2004.

The
Company currently owns directly or indirectly:

Office Properties
(“Office”

):

(i)

all or
portions of 86 office properties aggregating approximately 27.6 million
square feet in the New York City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) and in
the Washington D.C. and Northern Virginia area;

Retail Properties
(“Retail”)

:

(ii)

94 retail
properties in seven states and Puerto Rico aggregating approximately 14.2
million square feet, including 2.8 million square feet built by tenants on land
leased from the Company;

Merchandise Mart
Properties

:

(iii)

8.6
million square feet of showroom and office space, including the
3.4 million square foot Merchandise Mart in Chicago;

Temperature
Controlled Logistics

:

(iv)

a 47.6% interest
in Americold Realty Trust which owns and operates 88 cold storage warehouses
nationwide;

Other Real Estate
Investments

:

(v)

33% of the
outstanding common stock of Alexander’s, Inc. (“Alexander’s”) which has six
properties in the greater New York metropolitan area;

(vi)

the Hotel
Pennsylvania in New York City consisting of a hotel portion containing
1.0 million square feet with 1,700 rooms and a commercial portion
containing 0.4 million square feet of retail and office space;

(vii)

a
22.4% interest in The Newkirk Master Limited Partnership (“Newkirk MLP”) which
owns office, retail and industrial properties net leased primarily to credit
rated tenants, and various debt interests in such properties;

(viii)

seven
dry warehouse/industrial properties in New Jersey containing approximately 1.7
million square feet;

(ix)

mezzanine loans
to real estate related companies; and

(x)

interests in
other real estate including a 12.25% interest in GMH Communities L.P. (which
owns and manages student and military housing properties throughout the United
States), other investments and marketable securities.


OBJECTIVES
AND STRATEGY

Our
business objective is to maximize shareholder value.  We intend to achieve this objective by
continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and executing our operating
strategies through:

•

Maintaining
a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an
entrepreneurial spirit;

•

Investing
in properties in select markets, such as New York City and
Washington, D.C., where we believe there is high likelihood of capital
appreciation;

•

Acquiring
quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a
significant potential for higher rents;

•

Investing
in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the New York City
metropolitan area;

•

Investing
in fully-integrated operating companies that have a significant real estate
component with qualified, experienced operating management and strong growth
potential which can benefit from our access to efficient capital;

•

Developing/redeveloping
our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value; and

•

Providing
specialty financing to real estate related companies.

We
expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally
generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by accessing the public
and private capital markets.


ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS

During
the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company has completed $328,600,000 of
acquisitions and investments in real estate, of which $246,600,000 related to
the retail segment.  In addition, the
Company made $183,400,000 of mezzanine loans during 2004 which increased the
outstanding balance of Notes and Mortgage Loans Receivable to $440,186,000 at
December 31, 2004.  Details of these
transactions are described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Investment in GMH Communities L.P.

On
July 20, 2004, the Company committed to make up to a $159,000,000 convertible
preferred investment in GMH Communities L.P. (“GMH”), a partnership
focused on the student and military housing sectors.  Distributions accrued on the full committed
balance of the investment, whether or not drawn, from July 20, 2004, at a rate
of 16.27%.  In connection with this
commitment, the Company received a placement fee of $3,200,000.  The Company also purchased for $1,000,000,
warrants to acquire GMH common equity. 
These warrants entitle the Company to acquire (i) 6,666,667 limited partnership
units in GMH at an exercise price of $7.50 per unit and (ii) 5,496,724 limited
partnership units, through May 6, 2006, at an exercise price of $9.10 per
unit.  As of November 3, 2004, the
Company had funded a total of $113,777,000 of the commitment.

On
November 3, 2004, GMH Communities Trust (“GCT”) closed its initial public
offering (“IPO”) at a price of $12.00 per share.  GCT is a real estate investment trust that
conducts its business through GMH, of which it is the sole general
partner.  In connection with the IPO, the
$113,777,000 previously funded by the Company under the $159,000,000 commitment
was repaid, together with accrued distributions of $13,381,000.  The Company also exercised warrants to
purchase 6,666,667 limited partnership units at a price of $7.50 per unit, or
$50,000,000 in total, which resulted in a gain of $29,500,000.  The Company accounts for its interest in the
partnership units on the equity-method based on its 12.25% ownership interest
and right to appoint one of its executive officers to GCT’s Board of Trustees.  The Company records its pro-rata share of
GMH’s net income or loss on a one-quarter lag basis as the Company files its
financial statements on Form 10-K or 10-Q prior to the time GMH files its
financial statements.

Under
the warrant agreement, the number of GMH partnership units or GCT common shares
underlying the warrants is adjusted for dividends declared by GCT.  On December 16, 2004, GCT declared a dividend
of $.16 per common share, which increased the number of shares underlying the
warrants from 5,496,724 to 5,563,417 and the exercise price was decreased from
$9.10 to $8.99 per share.  Because these
warrants are derivatives and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the
gains and losses resulting from the mark-to-market of the warrants at the end
of each reporting period are recognized as an increase or decrease in “interest
and other investment income” on the Company’s consolidated statement of
income.  In the quarter ended December
31, 2004, the Company recognized income of $24,190,000 from the mark-to-market
of these warrants, which were valued using a trinomial option pricing model
based on GCT’s closing stock price on the NYSE of $14.10 per share on December
31, 2004.

Further,
in connection with the IPO, the Company contributed its 90% interest in
Campus Club Gainesville, which it acquired in 2000, in exchange for an
additional 671,190 GMH limited partnership units.

Of the
Company’s GMH units, 6,666,667 may be converted into an equivalent number of
common shares of GCT commencing on May 2, 2005 and 671,190 units may be converted
commencing on November 2, 2005.  The
Company has agreed not to sell any common shares or units it owns or may
acquire until May 2, 2005.


Investment in Sears, Roebuck and Co.

In July and
August 2004, the Company acquired an aggregate of 1,176,600 common shares of
Sears, Roebuck and Co. (“Sears”) for $41,945,000, an average price of $35.65
per share. Included in the cost is $1,361,000 for a performance-based
participation.  These shares are recorded
as marketable securities on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet and are
classified as “available for sale.” 
Appreciation or depreciation in the fair market value of these shares is
recorded as an increase or decrease in “accumulated other comprehensive income”
in the shareholders’ equity section of the Company’s consolidated balance sheet
and not recognized in income.  At
December 31, 2004, based on Sears’ closing stock price of $51.03 per share,
$18,105,000 of appreciation in the value of these shares was included in
“accumulated other comprehensive income.”

In August and
September 2004, the Company acquired an economic interest in an additional
7,916,900 Sears common shares through a series of privately negotiated
transactions with a financial institution pursuant to which the Company
purchased a call option and simultaneously sold a put option at the same strike
price on Sears common shares.  These call
and put options have an initial weighted-average strike price of  $39.82 per share, or an aggregate of
$315,250,000, expire in April 2006 and provide for net cash settlement.  Under these agreements, the strike price for
each pair of options increases at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis points
and is credited for the dividends received on the shares.  The options provide the Company with the same
economic gain or loss as if it had purchased the underlying common shares and
borrowed the aggregate strike price at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis
points.  Because these options are
derivatives and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the gains or
losses resulting from the mark-to-market of the options at the end of each
reporting period are recognized as an increase or decrease in “interest and
other investment income” on the Company’s consolidated statement of
income.  During the year ended December
31, 2004, the Company recorded net income of $81,730,000, comprised of (i)
$88,782,000 from the mark-to-market of the options on December 31, 2004, based
on Sears’ closing stock price of $51.03 per share and (ii) $2,295,000 for
accrued dividends, partially offset by (i) $5,972,000 for a performance-based
participation, (ii) $2,371,000 for the increase in strike price resulting from
the LIBOR charge and (iii) $1,004,000 of professional fees.

On November
16, 2004, Kmart Holding Corporation (“Kmart”) and Sears entered into an
Agreement and Plan of Merger.  Upon the
effective date of the merger, each share of Sears common stock will be
converted into the right to receive, at the election of the holder, (i) $50.00
in cash or (ii) 0.50 shares of common stock of the merged company, subject to
proration so that 55% of the Sears shares are exchanged for shares of the
merged company.

Based on
Sears’ most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Company’s aggregate investment in Sears represents 4.2% of Sears’ outstanding
common shares.

2004 DISPOSITIONS

On
June 29, 2004, the Company sold the Palisades Residential Complex for
$222,500,000, which resulted in a net gain on sale after closing costs of
$65,905,000.  Substantially all of the
proceeds from the sale were reinvested in tax-free “like kind” exchange
investments pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section
1031”).

On
August 12, 2004, the Company sold its Dundalk, Maryland shopping center for
$12,900,000, which resulted in a net gain on sale after closing costs of
$9,850,000.  Substantially all of the
proceeds from the sale have been reinvested in tax-free “like-kind” exchange
investments pursuant to Section 1031 .

On
November 4, 2004, Americold Realty Trust (“Americold”), owned 60% by the
Company, purchased its tenant, AmeriCold Logistics, for $47,700,000 in
cash.  On November 18, 2004 the Company
and its 40% partner, Crescent Real Estate Equities Company (“CEI”) collectively
sold 20.7% of Americold’s common shares to The Yucaipa Companies (“Yucaipa”)
for $145,000,000, which resulted in a gain, of which the Company’s share was
$18,789,000.  In connection with the
governance provisions of the transaction, the Company has the right to appoint
three of the five members to Americold’s Board of Trustees.  Consequently, the Company is deemed to
exercise control over Americold and on November 18, 2004 began to consolidate
Americold’s operations and financial position and no longer accounts for its
investment on the equity method.

Further
details regarding the Company’s dispositions are disclosed in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report on
Form 10-K.


DEVELOPMENT
AND REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

The
Company is currently engaged in various development/redevelopment projects for
which it has budgeted approximately $470.0 million.  Of this amount $30.9 million was expended in
2004 (excluding $104.5 million for projects completed in 2004) and $310.0
million is estimated to be expended in 2005. 
Below is a description of these projects.

(1)

Revised from the prior estimate of $90.0 million to
renovate the buildings and $60.0 million to re-tenant the space.

(2)

Subject to governmental approvals.

The
Company is also in the pre-development phase of other projects including,
retail space in the Penn Plaza area, repositioning of the Hotel Pennsylvania,
expansion of the Monmouth Mall and renovation of the 2101 L Street office
building.

There
can be no assurance that any of the above projects will commence or be
completed on schedule or on budget.


The Company has substantially
completed the following projects during 2004:

PTO Space
Redevelopment:

The
Company plans to redevelop certain office buildings in which the PTO has
vacated or will vacate space as their leases expire over the next two years as
follows:

Renovations
to Crystal Plaza Three and Four will include new mechanical systems, new
restrooms, lobbies and corridors.  These
buildings have been taken out of service for redevelopment which is expected to
be completed over a 12 to 18 month period. 
Renovations to the remaining buildings will consist of common area and
exterior renovations to upgrade the buildings that will not be taken out of
service.

See
page 60 for details of the projected lease up of the PTO space.


FINANCING
ACTIVITIES

During
2004, the Company issued (i) $425,000,000 of Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Shares at a weighted average rate of 6.74%, (ii) $55,000,000 Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Units of the Operating Partnership at a weighted average
rate of 6.96%, (iii) $46,700,000 of 3.0% Series D-13 preferred units and (iv)
redeemed $85,000,000 and $27,500,000 of outstanding Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares and Units with a weighted average rate of 8.50% and 8.38%,
respectively.  In addition, the Company
completed property level financings of $520,000,000 and issued $250,000,000 of
senior unsecured notes.  Details of these
transactions as well as other financing activities are described in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations and in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The
Company may seek to obtain funds through equity offerings, debt financings or
asset sales, although there is no express policy with respect thereto. The
Company may offer its shares or Operating Partnership units in exchange for
property and may repurchase or otherwise re-acquire its shares or any other
securities in the future.

COMPETITION

The
Company’s business segments – Office, Retail, Merchandise Mart Properties,
Temperature Controlled Logistics, and Other operate in highly competitive
environments.  The Company has a large
concentration of properties in the New York City metropolitan area and in the
Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia area.  The Company competes with a large number of
real estate property owners and developers. 
Principal factors of competition are rent charged, attractiveness of
location, the quality of the property and breadth and quality of services
provided.  The Company’s success depends
upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies,
financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants
and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation
costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.

ENVIRONMENTAL
REGULATIONS

The
Company’s operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and
local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment
including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and
safety. Under certain of these environmental laws a current or previous owner
or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up
hazardous or toxic substances released at a property.  The owner or operator may also be held liable
to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries
and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of
the contamination.  These laws often
impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the
release of the substances or caused the release.  The presence of contamination or the failure
to remediate contamination may impair the Company’s ability to sell or lease
real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and
regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can
require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event
of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of
and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. 
The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical
equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and underground storage
tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws.  The Company could incur fines for
environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action
with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims
arising out of environmental contamination or exposure at or from the Company’s
properties.

Each
of the Company’s properties has been subjected to varying degrees of environmental
assessment at various times. The environmental assessments did not reveal any
environmental condition material to the Company’s business.  However, identification of new compliance
concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known
scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the
contamination or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements could result in
significant costs to the Company.


TENANTS
WHICH ACCOUNTED FOR OVER 10% OF REVENUES

In
2004, the Company had 106 separate leases with various agencies of the U.S.
Government, the rent from which accounted for 12.5% of the Company’s
consolidated total revenues.  The loss of
this tenant would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s finances as a
whole.

CERTAIN
ACTIVITIES

Acquisitions
and investments are not required to be based on specific allocation by type of
property. The Company has historically held its properties for long-term
investment; however, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be
sold in whole or in part, as circumstances warrant, from time to time. Further,
the Company has not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of
assets which would be invested in a specific property. While the Company may
seek the vote of its shareholders in connection with any particular material
transaction, generally the Company’s activities are reviewed and may be
modified from time to time by its Board of Trustees without the vote of
shareholders.

EMPLOYEES

As of
December 31, 2004, the Company and its majority-owned subsidiaries had
approximately 2,592 employees, of which 186 were corporate staff.  The Office segment had 269 employees and
1,123 employees of Building Maintenance Services, a wholly-owned
subsidiary.  The Retail segment, the
Merchandise Mart segment and the Hotel Pennsylvania had 61, 479 and 474
employees, respectively.  This does not
include employees of partially-owned entities, including Americold Realty Trust
which had 6,058 employees as of December 31, 2004.

SEGMENT
DATA

The
Company operates in four business segments: Office Properties, Retail
Properties, Merchandise Mart Properties and Temperature Controlled
Logistics.  The Merchandise Mart segment
has trade show operations in Canada.  The
Temperature Controlled Logistics segment operates one managed warehouse in
Canada.  Information related to the
Company’s business segments for the years 2004, 2003 and 2002 is set forth in
Note 19. Segment Information to the Company’s consolidated financial statements
in this annual report on Form 10-K.

The
Company’s principal executive offices are located at 888 Seventh Avenue,
New York, New York 10019; telephone (212) 894-7000.

MATERIALS
AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE

Copies
of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
reports, as well as Reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or
10% beneficial owners of the Company, filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as
reasonably practicable after it is electronically filed with, or furnished to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
We also have made available on our website copies of our Audit Committee
Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate Governance and Nominating
Committee Charter, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance
Guidelines.  In the event of any changes
to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made
available on our website.


CERTAIN
FACTORS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS

Real Estate Investments’ Value and Income Fluctuate
Due to Various Factors.

The value of real
estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real
estate business. These conditions may also limit our revenues and available
cash.

The
factors that affect the value of the our real estate include, among other
things, national, regional and local economic conditions; consequences of any
armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States; our
ability to secure adequate insurance; local conditions such as an oversupply of
space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area; competition from
other available space; whether tenants consider a property attractive; the
financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies
or defaults; whether we are able to pass some or all of any
increased operating costs through to tenants; how well we manage our
properties; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in real estate taxes and
other expenses; changes in market rental rates; the timing and costs associated
with property improvements and rentals; changes in taxation or zoning laws;
government regulation; availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all;
potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; and
general competitive factors.

The
rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a
result of adverse changes in any of these factors.  If our rental revenues decline, we generally
would expect to have less cash available to pay our indebtedness and distribute
to our shareholders. In addition, some of our major expenses, including
mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decline
when the related rents decline.

We depend on
leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent
from our tenants, who may not be able to pay.

Our
financial results depend on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically
favorable terms. In addition, because substantially all of our income comes
from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness
and funds available for distribution to our shareholders will decrease if a
significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent.  If a tenant does not pay its rent, we might
not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and might incur
substantial legal costs to enforce those rights. For information regarding the
bankruptcy of our tenants, see “Bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may
decrease our revenues and available cash” below.

Bankruptcy or
insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenues and available cash.

A
number of companies, including some of our tenants, have declared bankruptcy in
recent years, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in
the future.  If a major tenant declares
bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, the rental property where it leases space may
have lower revenues and operational difficulties, and, in the case of our
shopping centers, we may have difficulty leasing the remainder of the affected
property.  Our leases generally do not
contain restrictions designed to ensure the creditworthiness of our tenants. As
a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in a
lower level of funds from operations available for distribution to our
shareholders or the payment of our indebtedness.

Real estate is a
competitive business.

For a
discussion of risks related to competition in the real estate business, see
“Item 1.  Business – Competition.”

We may incur costs
to comply with environmental laws.

For a
discussion of risks related to the Company’s compliance with environmental
laws, see “Item 1.  Business –
Environmental Regulations.”


Some of our
potential losses may not be covered by insurance.

The
Company carries comprehensive liability and all risk property insurance ((i)
fire, (ii) flood, (iii) extended coverage, (iv) “acts of terrorism” as defined
in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 which expires in 2005 and (v)
rental loss insurance) with respect to its assets.  In April 2004, the Company reviewed its all
risk policies and increased its coverage for Acts of Terrorism for each of its
New York Office, CESCR Office, Retail and Merchandise Mart divisions.  Below is a summary of the all risk property
insurance and terrorism risk insurance for each of the Company’s business segments:

(1)

Limited
as to terrorism insurance by the sub-limit shown in the adjacent column.

In
addition to the coverage above, the Company carries lesser amounts of coverage
for terrorist acts not covered by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of
2002.  To the extent the Company incurs
losses in excess of its insurance coverage, these losses would be born by the
Company and could be significant.

The
Company’s debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by its properties
(which are generally non-recourse to the Company), its senior unsecured notes
due 2007, 2009 and 2010 and its revolving credit agreement, contain customary
covenants requiring the Company to maintain insurance. Although the Company
believes that it has adequate insurance coverage under these agreements, the
Company may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at
reasonable costs in the future.  Further
if lenders insist on greater coverage than the Company is able to obtain, or if
the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 is not extended, it could adversely
affect the Company’s ability to finance and/or refinance its properties and
expand its portfolio.

Our
Investments Are Concentrated in the New York City/New Jersey and Washington,
D.C. Metropolitan Areas.  Circumstances
Affecting These Areas Generally Could Adversely Affect Our Business.

A significant
proportion of our properties are in the New York City/New Jersey and
Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas and are affected by the economic cycles and
risks inherent to those regions.

During
2004, 64.2% of our EBITDA, excluding items that affect comparability, came from
properties located in New Jersey and the New York City and Washington, D.C.
metropolitan areas.  In addition, we may
continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in New
Jersey and the New York City and Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas.  Like other real estate markets, the real
estate markets in these areas have experienced economic downturns in the past,
and we cannot predict how the current economic conditions will impact these
markets in both the short and long term. 
Further declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate markets
in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our
properties.  The factors affecting
economic conditions in these regions include: space needs of the United States
Government, business layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of
businesses; changing demographics; increased telecommuting and use of
alternative work places; financial performance and productivity of the
publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real
estate industries; infrastructure quality; and any oversupply of or reduced
demand for real estate.

It is
impossible for us to assess the future effects of the current uncertain trends
in the economic and investment climates of the New York City/New Jersey and
Washington, D.C. regions, and more generally of the United States, or the real
estate markets in these areas.  If these
conditions persist or if any local, national or global economic recovery is of
a short term, businesses and future profitability may be adversely affected.

Terrorist Attacks
such as those of September 11, 2001 in New York City and the Washington, D.C.
Area May Adversely Affect the Value of Our Properties and Our Ability to
Generate Cash Flow.

We
have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the New
York/New Jersey, Washington, D.C. and Chicago metropolitan areas.  Tenants in these areas may choose to relocate
their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States that
may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity. This
in turn would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which
could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties
on less favorable terms.  In addition,
threatened or actual future terrorist attacks in these areas could directly or


indirectly impact our
properties.  As a result of the
foregoing, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could
decline materially.

We May Acquire or Sell Additional Assets or Develop
Additional Properties.  Our Failure or
Inability to Consummate These Transactions or Manage the Results of These
Transactions Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results.

We have grown
rapidly through acquisitions.  We may not
be able to maintain this rapid growth and our failure to do so could adversely
affect our stock price.

We
have experienced rapid growth in recent years, increasing our total assets from
approximately $565 million at December 31, 1996, to approximately
$11.6 billion at December 31, 2004. 
We may not be able to maintain a similar rate of growth in the future or
manage our growth effectively.  Our
failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
and results of operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.

We may acquire or
develop new properties and this may create risks.

We may
acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate companies when we
believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business
strategies. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions
or in completing developments on time or within budget. We also may not succeed
in leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover
their costs of acquisition or development and operations.  Difficulties in consummating desired
acquisitions and integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming
and could divert management’s attention.

It may be
difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly.

Real
estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly.  Consequently, we may have limited ability to
vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other
conditions.

We may not be
permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with
those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring
additional costs.

As
part of an acquisition of a property, we may agree with the seller that we will
not dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness on
them for significant periods of time unless we pay certain of the resulting tax
costs of the seller.  These agreements
could result in our holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and
not pay down or refinance indebtedness that we would otherwise pay down or
refinance.

For
example, subject to limited exceptions, we are restricted from selling or
otherwise transferring or disposing of certain properties located in the
Crystal City area of Arlington, Virginia or an interest in our division that
manages the majority of our office properties in the Washington, D.C.
metropolitan area, which we refer to as the CESCR Division, until 2014 with
respect to certain properties located in the Crystal City area of Arlington, Virginia
or until 2008 with respect to an interest in the CESCR Division.  These restrictions, which currently cover
approximately 13.0 million square feet of space, could result in our inability
to sell these properties or an interest in the CESCR Division at an opportune
time and increase costs to us.

Our Organizational and Financial Structure Gives Rise to Operational and
Financial Risks.

We May Not Be Able
to Obtain Capital to Make Investments.

We
depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. This
is because one of the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, for a REIT is that it distribute 90% of its net taxable income,
excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders (there is a separate
requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in
lieu).  Our access to debt or equity
financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity
investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. We and other companies
in the real estate industry have experienced limited availability of financing
from time to time. Although we believe that we will be able to finance any
investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, new financing may
not be available on acceptable terms.

For
information about our available sources of funds, see “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and
Capital Resources” and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in
this annual report on Form 10-K.


Vornado Realty
Trust depends on its direct and indirect subsidiaries’ dividends and
distributions, and these subsidiaries’ creditors and preferred security holders
are entitled to payment of amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before
the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to Vornado Realty
Trust.

Substantially
all of Vornado Realty Trust’s assets are held through its Operating Partnership
which holds substantially all of its properties and assets through its own
subsidiaries. The Operating Partnership therefore depends for substantially all
of its cash flow on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and Vornado
Realty Trust in turn depends for substantially all of its cash flow on cash
distributions to it by the Operating Partnership. The creditors of each of the
Vornado Realty Trust’s direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment
of that subsidiary’s obligations to them, when due and payable, before
distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. Thus, the
Operating Partnership’s ability to make distributions to holders of units
depends on its subsidiaries’ ability first to satisfy their obligations to their
creditors and then to make distributions to the Operating Partnership.

Furthermore,
the holders of preferred units of the Operating Partnership are entitled to
receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of
common units of the Operating Partnership, including Vornado Realty Trust.
Thus, Vornado Realty Trust ability to pay dividends to holders of its common
shares and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the Operating Partnership’s
ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make
distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make
distributions to Vornado Realty Trust. As of December 31, 2004, there were 13
series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership not held by Vornado
Realty Trust that have preference over Vornado Realty Trust common shares. The
total liquidation value of these 13 series of preferred units is
approximately $960,900,000.

In
addition, Vornado Realty Trust’s participation in any distribution of the
assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation,
reorganization or insolvency of the subsidiary, is only after the claims of the
creditors, including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if any,
of the subsidiary are satisfied.

We have
indebtedness, and this indebtedness may increase.

As of
December 31, 2004, we had approximately $5.2 billion in total debt
outstanding including the Company’s proportionate share of debt of
partially-owned entities.  Our ratio of
total debt to total enterprise value was 30.4%. When we say “enterprise value”
in the preceding sentence, we mean market equity value of Vornado Realty Trust
plus total debt outstanding, including the Company’s pro-rata share of
partially-owned entities debt, less cash. In the future, we may incur
additional debt, and thus increase its ratio of total debt to total enterprise
value, to finance acquisitions or property developments.

Vornado Realty
Trust might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.

Although
we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to
qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we might fail to remain
qualified in this way. Qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes
is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative
interpretations. Our qualification as a REIT also depends on various facts and
circumstances that are not entirely within our control. In addition, legislation,
new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might
significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for
qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualification
as a REIT.

If,
with respect to any taxable year, Vornado Realty Trust fails to maintain its
qualification as a REIT, it could not deduct distributions to shareholders in
computing its taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on its
taxable income at regular corporate rates. The federal income tax payable would
include any applicable alternative minimum tax. If Vornado Realty Trust had to
pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to
shareholders and pay its indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years
involved, and Vornado Realty Trust would no longer be required to distribute
money to shareholders. In addition, Vornado Realty Trust would also be
disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the
year during which qualification was lost, unless it was entitled to relief
under the relevant statutory provisions. Although Vornado Realty Trust
currently intends to operate in a manner designed to allow it to qualify as a
REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause it
to revoke the REIT election.

Loss of the
Company’s key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the
value of our common shares.

We are
dependent on the efforts of Steven Roth, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees
and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado Realty Trust, and Michael D. Fascitelli,
the President of Vornado Realty Trust. While we believe that we could find
replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our
operations and adversely affect the value or our common shares.


Vornado Realty
Trust’s charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire
us.

Generally,
for Vornado Realty Trust to maintain its qualification as a REIT under the
Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of
beneficial interest of Vornado Realty Trust may be owned, directly or
indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of
Vornado Realty Trust’s taxable year. The Internal Revenue Code defines
“individuals” for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding
sentence to include some types of entities. Under Vornado Realty Trust’s
Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as amended, no person may own more
than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred
shares, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of
the 6.7% limit before Vornado Realty Trust adopted the limit and other persons
approved by Vornado Realty Trust’s Board of Trustees.  These restrictions on transferability and
ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or
other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the
best interest of the shareholders.  We
refer to Vornado Realty Trust’s Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as
amended, as the “declaration of trust.”

Vornado
Realty Trust’s Board of Trustees is divided into three classes of trustees.
Trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. Staggered
terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to
change control of the Company, even though a tender offer or change in control
might be in the best interest of Vornado Realty Trust’s shareholders.

The
declaration of trust authorizes the Board of Trustees to cause Vornado Realty
Trust to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred
shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred
shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or
reclassified shares that Vornado Realty Trust issues; and increase, without
shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that Vornado
Realty Trust may issue.

The
Board of Trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms
could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other
transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best
interest of Vornado Realty Trust’s shareholders, although the Board of Trustees
does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind.
Vornado Realty Trust’s declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions
that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other
transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best
interest of the shareholders.

Under
the Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended, which we refer to as the “MGCL,”
as applicable to real estate investment trusts, certain “business
combinations,” including certain mergers, consolidations, share exchanges and
asset transfers and certain issuances and reclassifications of equity
securities, between a Maryland real estate investment trust and any person who
beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust’s shares
or an affiliate or an associate, as defined in the MGCL, of the trust who, at
any time within the two-year period before the date in question, was the
beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then
outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust, which we refer
to as an “interested shareholder,” or an affiliate of the interested
shareholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which
the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. After that
five-year period, any business combination of these kinds must be recommended
by the board of trustees of the trust and approved by the affirmative vote of
at least (a) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding
shares of beneficial interest of the trust and (b) two-thirds of the votes
entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of the trust other than shares
held by the interested shareholder with whom, or with whose affiliate, the
business combination is to be effected, unless, among other conditions, the
trust’s common shareholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the MGCL,
for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form
as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common shares. The
provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are
approved or exempted by the board of trustees of the applicable trust before
the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and a person is
not an interested shareholder if the board of trustees approved in advance the
transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested
shareholder.  In approving a transaction,
the board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after
the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the board.  Vornado Realty Trust’s board has adopted a
resolution exempting any business combination between any trustee or officer of
the Company, or their affiliates, and the Company. As a result, the trustees
and officers of the Company and their affiliates may be able to enter into
business combinations with the Company which may not be in the best interest of
shareholders. With respect to business combinations with other persons, the
business combination provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of delaying,
deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company or other transaction
that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the
shareholders. The business combination statute may discourage others from
trying to acquire control of the Company and increase the difficulty of consummating
any offer.


Our Ownership Structure and Related-Party Transactions May Give Rise to
Conflicts of Interest.

Steven Roth and
Interstate Properties may exercise substantial influence over the Company. They
and some of the Company’s other trustees and officers have interests or
positions in other entities that may compete with the Company.

As of
December 31, 2004, Interstate Properties, a New Jersey general
partnership, and its partners owned approximately 10.8% of the common shares of
Vornado Realty Trust and approximately 27.4% of the common stock of
Alexander’s, Inc.  Steven Roth, David
Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the partners of Interstate Properties.
Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
Vornado Realty Trust, the managing general partner of Interstate Properties,
the Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alexander’s.

As of
December 31, 2004, we owned 33% of the outstanding common stock of
Alexander’s. Alexander’s is a REIT engaged in leasing, managing, developing and
redeveloping properties, focusing primarily on the locations where its
department stores operated before they ceased operations in 1992. Alexander’s
has six properties, which are located in the New York City metropolitan area.
Mr. Roth and Mr. Fascitelli, the President and a trustee of Vornado Realty
Trust, are directors of Alexander’s. Messrs. Mandelbaum, West and Wight are
trustees of Vornado Realty Trust and are also directors of Alexander’s.

Prior
to the dissolution of Vornado Operating on December 29, 2004, Interstate was
also a significant equity holder of Vornado Operating.  When it existed, Vornado Operating’s
principal business was operating, as tenant, the cold storage warehouses owned
by our partially-owned subsidiary, Americold Realty Trust.  Messrs. Roth and Fascitelli were officers and
directors of Vornado Operating.  Mr.
Wight was also a director of Vornado Operating.

Because
of these overlapping interests, Mr. Roth and Interstate Properties and its
partners may have substantial influence over Vornado Realty Trust and
Alexander’s and on the outcome of any matters submitted to Vornado Realty Trust
or Alexander’s shareholders for approval. In addition, certain decisions concerning
the Company’s operations or financial structure may present conflicts of
interest among Messrs. Roth, Mandelbaum and Wight and Interstate Properties and
the Company’s other equity or debt holders. In addition, Mr. Roth and
Interstate Properties and its partners currently and may in the future engage
in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in
conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting the Company or
Alexander’s, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take
advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these
entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these
entities make investments, potential competition between business activities
conducted, or sought to be conducted, by the Company, Interstate Properties and
Alexander’s, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate
transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the
future of these entities.

The
Company currently manages and leases the real estate assets of Interstate
Properties under a management agreement for which the Company receives an
annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent and certain other
commissions. The management agreement has a term of one year and is
automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on 60 days’
notice at the end of the term. The Company earned $726,000, $703,000, and
$747,000 of management fees under the management agreement for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. 
Because the Company and Interstate Properties are controlled by the same
persons, as described above, the terms of the management agreement and any
future agreements between the Company and Interstate Properties may not be
comparable to those the Company could have negotiated with an unaffiliated
third party.

There may be
conflicts of interest between Alexander’s and Us

At
December 31, 2004, the Company had loans receivable from Alexander’s of
$124,000,000 at an interest rate of 9.0%, including $29,000,000 drawn under a
$50,000,000 line of credit.  The maturity
date of the loans is the earlier of January 3, 2006 or the date that
Alexander’s Lexington Avenue construction loan is finally repaid. The Operating
Partnership manages, develops and leases the Alexander’s properties under
management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which the
Operating Partnership receives annual fees from Alexander’s. These agreements
have a one-year term expiring in March of each year, except that the Lexington
Avenue management and development agreements have a term lasting until
substantial completion of development of the Lexington Avenue property, and are
all automatically renewable. Because the Company and Alexander’s share common
senior management and because a majority of the trustees of Vornado Realty
Trust also constitute the majority of the directors of Alexander’s, the terms
of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements between us and
Alexander’s may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an
unaffiliated third party.

Interstate
Properties, which is further described above, owned an additional 27.4% of the
outstanding common stock of Alexander’s as of December 31, 2004.  Mr. Roth, Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of Vornado Realty


Trust, is Chief Executive
Officer and a director of Alexander’s, and Mr. Fascitelli, President and a
trustee of Vornado Realty Trust, is President and a director of
Alexander’s.  Messrs. Mandelbaum, West
and Wight, trustees of the Company, are also directors of Alexander’s.  Alexander’s common stock is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange under the symbol “ALX.”

For a
description of Interstate Properties’ ownership of Vornado Realty Trust and
Alexander’s, see “Steven Roth and Interstate Properties may exercise
substantial influence over the Company. They and some of the Company’s other
trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may
compete with the Company” above.

The Number of Shares of the Company and the Market for Those Shares Give
Rise to Various Risks.

Vornado Realty
Trust has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market
price of its shares.

As of
February 1, 2005, we had authorized but unissued, 72,178,522 common shares of
beneficial interest, $.04 par value, and 85,610,600 preferred shares of
beneficial interest, no par value.  We
may issue these additional shares from time to time in public or private
offerings or in connection with acquisitions.

In
addition, as of February 1, 2005, 17,643,708 Vornado Realty Trust common shares
were reserved for issuance upon redemption of Operating Partnership units.  Some of these shares may be sold in the
public market after registration under the Securities Act under registration
rights agreements between the Company and some holders of units of the
Operating Partnership.  These shares may
also be sold in the public market under Rule 144 under the Securities Act or
other available exemptions from registration. 
In addition, Vornado Realty Trust has reserved a number of common shares
for issuance under its employee benefit plans, and these common shares will be
available for sale from time to time. 
Vornado Realty Trust has awarded shares of restricted stock and granted
options to purchase additional common shares to some of its executive officers
and employees.   Of the authorized but
unissued common and preferred shares referenced above, 41,969,628 common and
40,929,336 preferred shares, in the aggregate, were reserved for issuance upon
the redemption of Operating Partnership units, under benefit plans, the
conversion of outstanding securities or other action not directly in our
control.

We
cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common shares, preferred
shares or Operating Partnership Units, or the perception that sales of common
shares, preferred or Operating Partnership Units could occur, will have on the
market prices for Vornado Realty Trust’s shares.

Changes in market
conditions could hurt the market price of Vornado Realty Trust’s shares.

The
value of the Vornado Realty Trust’s shares depends on various market
conditions, which may change from time to time. Among the market conditions
that may affect the value of the Vornado Realty Trust’s shares are the
following: the extent of institutional investor interest in the Company; the
reputation of REITs generally and the attractiveness of their equity securities
in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other
real estate companies, and fixed income securities; our financial condition and
performance; and general financial market conditions.

The
stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume
fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the
operating performance of companies generally, and Vornado in particular.

Increased market
interest rates may hurt the value of Vornado Realty Trust’s shares.

We
believe that investors consider the distribution rate on REIT shares, expressed
as a percentage of the market price of the shares, relative to market interest
rates as an important factor in deciding whether to buy or sell the shares.  If market interest rates go up, prospective
purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher distribution rate.  Higher interest rates would likely increase
our borrowing costs and might decrease funds available for distribution.  Thus, higher market interest rates could
cause the market price of Vornado Realty Trust’s shares to decline.


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

The
Company currently owns, directly or indirectly, Office properties, Retail
properties, Merchandise Mart properties and Temperature Controlled Logistics
refrigerated warehouses. The Company also owns or has investments in
Alexander’s, Hotel Pennsylvania, The Newkirk Master Limited Partnership,
GMH Communities L.P., dry warehouses and industrial buildings.

Office Segment

The
Company currently owns all or a portion of 86 office properties containing
approximately 27.6 million square feet. 
Of these properties, 20 containing 13.4 million square feet are
located in the New York City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) (the
“New York City Office Properties”) and 66 containing 14.2 million square feet
are located in the Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia area (the
“CESCR Office Properties”).

New York City Office Properties:

The
New York City Office Properties contain 12,607,000 square feet of
office space and 805,000 square feet of retail space.  In addition, the New York City Office
properties contain five garages totaling 332,000 square feet (1,600 spaces)
which are managed by or leased to third parties.  The garage space is excluded from the
statistics provided in this section.

The
following table sets forth the percentage of the New York City Office
Properties 2004 revenue by tenants’ industry:

The
Company’s New York City Office properties lease terms generally range from five
to seven years for smaller tenant spaces to as long as 15 years for major
tenants, and may include extension options at market rates.  Leases typically provide for step-ups in rent
periodically over the term of the lease and pass through to tenants the
tenant’s share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses over a
base year. Electricity is provided to tenants on a sub-metered basis or
included in rent based on surveys and adjusted for subsequent utility rate
increases. Leases also typically provide for tenant improvement allowances for
all or a portion of the tenant’s initial construction costs of its premises.


Below is a listing of tenants that accounted for 2% or
more of the New York City Office Properties revenues in 2004:

The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and
the average annual escalated rent per square foot for the New York City
Office properties, excluding garage space, at the end of each of the past five
years.

During 2004, the Company leased 1,623,000 square feet
of New York City Office space as follows:

(1)

Most
leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in the
initial rent per square foot leased.

In addition to the office space noted above, the
Company leased 51,000 square feet of retail space at a weighted average
initial rent of $118.39 per square foot.


The following tables set forth lease expirations for
the office and retail portions of the New York City Office Properties as of
December 31, 2004, for each of the next 10 years assuming that none
of the tenants exercise their renewal options.

Office Space:

(1)

Excludes 492,000 square feet at 909
Third Avenue leased to the U.S. Post Office through 2038 (including six
five-year renewal options) for which the annual escalated rent is $8.96 per
square foot.

Retail Space (contained in office buildings):


The following table sets forth the New York City Office
Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 2004:

(1)

Ground leased.

(2)

Less than 10% of this property is
ground leased.


Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty (“CESCR”) Office
Properties:

CESCR owns 66 office buildings and a hotel in the
Washington D.C. and Northern Virginia area containing 14.2 million
square feet, including two buildings taken out of service for
redevelopment.  CESCR manages an
additional 7.1 million square feet of office and other commercial
properties.  In addition, CESCR’s
buildings contain 19 garages totaling approximately 7.4 million square feet
(25,000 spaces) which are managed by or leased to third parties.  The garage space is excluded from the
statistics provided in this section.  As
of December 31, 2004, 35 percent of CESCR’s property portfolio is leased to
various agencies of the U.S. government.

On July 1, 2004, the Company
acquired the Marriott hotel located in its Crystal City office complex from a
limited partnership in which Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod, trustees of
the Company, together with family members own approximately 67 percent.  The purchase price of $21,500,000 was paid in
cash.  The hotel contains 343 rooms and
is leased to an affiliate of Marriott International, Inc. until July 31, 2015,
with one 10-year extension option.  The
land under the hotel was acquired in 1999.

The following table sets forth the percentage of CESCR’s
Office properties 2004 revenue by tenants’ industry:

CESCR office leases are typically for four to seven
year terms, and may provide for extension options at either pre-negotiated or
market rates.  Most leases provide for
annual rental escalations throughout the lease term, plus recovery of increases
in real estate taxes and certain property operating expenses over a base
year.  Annual rental escalations are
typically based upon either fixed percentage increases or the consumer price
index.  Leases also typically provide for
tenant improvement allowances for all or a portion of the tenant’s initial
construction costs of its premises.

Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2%
or more of the CESCR Office properties revenues during 2004:


The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and
the average annual escalated rent per square foot for the CESCR properties at
the end of each of the past five years:

During 2004, the Company leased 2,824,000 square feet
of CESCR office space as follows:

(1)

Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent which
are not reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.


The following table sets forth lease expirations for
the CESCR Office Properties as of December 31, 2004 for each of the next
10 years, assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal
options.

The above table includes 1,002,000 square feet leased
to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) in the Crystal City
submarket.  Of this square feet, 393,000
expires in Q1 2005, 359,000 expires in Q2 2005, 145,000 expires in Q4 2005 and
105,000 expires in Q1 2006.  In addition,
the PTO vacated 937,000 square feet in the fourth quarter of 2004, of which
497,000 has been taken out of service, and will vacate another 1,002,000 square
feet during 2005 and the first quarter of 2006. 
As of February 1, 2005, the Company has leased 416,000 square feet of
the PTO space vacated.  Of this space,
262,000 square feet was leased to the Federal Supply Service which will be
relocated from 240,000 square feet in other Crystal City buildings, 122,000
square feet was leased to the Public Broadcasting Service and 32,000 square
feet was leased to Lockheed Martin.

Below is a comparison of the Company’s actual leasing
activity to the Company’s projection for the lease-up of this space:

Straight-line rent per square foot for the actual
square feet leased is $32.34 as compared to $31.94 projected.  Actual tenant improvements and leasing
commissions per square foot is $45.25 as compared to $45.28 projected.

The Company’s original redevelopment plans for the PTO
space included taking Crystal Park One and Crystal Plaza Three and Four out of
service.  Plans for Crystal Plaza Three
and Four have not changed.  Current plans
for Crystal Park One are to lease its 224,000 square feet to private sector
tenants which will not require taking the building out of service, as opposed
to leasing it to another government agency which would have required taking it
out of service.  As a result, the Company
will recognize approximately $4,000,000 of expense in 2005, which under the
original plan would have been capitalized as part of development costs.


The following table sets forth the CESCR Office
Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 2004:

(1)

Includes Crystal Plaza Three and Four
containing an aggregate of 497,000 square feet which have been taken out of
service for redevelopment and not included in Percent Leased.

(2)

Ground leased.


Retail Segment

The Company owns 94 retail properties, of which 51 are
strip shopping centers located in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic; 25 are
supermarkets in Southern California; five are regional malls located in New York,
New Jersey and San Juan, Puerto Rico; and 13 are retail properties located in
New York City.  The Company’s strip
shopping centers and malls are generally located on major regional highways in
mature, densely populated areas.  The
Company believes these properties attract consumers from a regional, rather
than a neighborhood market place because of their location on regional
highways.

The Company’s strip shopping centers contain an
aggregate of 9.2 million square feet and are substantially (over 80%) leased to
large stores (over 20,000 square feet). 
Tenants include destination retailers such as discount department
stores, supermarkets, home improvement stores, discount apparel stores and
membership warehouse clubs.  Tenants
typically offer basic consumer necessities such as food, health and beauty
aids, moderately priced clothing, building materials and home improvement
supplies, and compete primarily on the basis of price and location.

The Company’s five regional malls are as follows :

The Green Acres Mall in Long Island, New
York contains 1.6 million square feet, and is anchored by four major department
stores: Sears, J.C. Penney and Company, Inc.,
Federated Department Stores, Inc. (“Federated”) doing business as Macy's
and Macy’s Men’s Furniture Gallery (formerly “Sterns”).  The complex also includes The Plaza at
Green Acres, a 175,000 square foot strip shopping center which is
anchored by Wal-Mart and National Wholesale Liquidators.  The Company plans to renovate the interior
and exterior of the mall.  In addition,
the Company has entered into a ground lease with B.J.’s Wholesale Club who will
construct its own free-standing store in the mall complex.  Further, the Company will construct 63,600
square feet of free-standing retail space and parking decks in the complex,
subject to governmental approvals.  The
expansion and renovation are expected to be completed in 2006.

The Monmouth Mall in Eatontown, New Jersey, owned
50% by the Company, contains 1.4 million square feet and is anchored by
four department stores; Macy’s, Lord & Taylor, J.C. Penney and Boscovs,
three of which own their stores aggregating 719,000 square feet.

The Bergen Mall in Paramus, New Jersey, contains
903,000 square feet.  The Company has
entered into agreements to terminate its lease with Macy’s effective April 2005
and its lease with Value City effective January 2006.  Under these agreements, in January 2005, the
Company received $2,000,000 from Macy’s and paid $12,000,000 to Value City,
both of which were reflected in the acquisition price of the mall.  The Company plans to expand, re-tenant and
redevelop the mall subject to governmental approvals and anticipates taking the
mall out of service in phases beginning in the second quarter of 2005.

The Montehiedra Mall in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, contains 554,000 square feet and is anchored by
Home Depot, Kmart, and Marshalls.

The Las Catalinas Mall in San Juan, Puerto Rico,
contains 354,000 square feet and is anchored by Kmart and Sears, which
owns its store.


2004 Retail Property Acquisitions

On February 3, 2004, the Company acquired the Forest
Plaza Shopping Center for approximately $32,500,000, of which $14,000,000 was
paid in cash and $18,500,000 was debt assumed. 
Forest Plaza is a 165,000 square foot shopping center located in Staten
Island, New York.

On March 19, 2004, the Company acquired a 62,000
square foot free-standing retail building located at 25 W. 14

th

Street in Manhattan for $40,000,000 in cash.

On July 29, 2004, the Company acquired a real estate
portfolio containing 25 supermarkets for $65,000,000 in cash.  These properties, all of which are all
located in Southern California and contain an aggregate of approximately 766,000 square
feet, were purchased from the Newkirk MLP, in which the Company currently owns
a 22.4% interest.  The supermarkets are
net leased to Stater Brothers for an initial term expiring in 2008, with
six 5-year extension options. 
Stater Brothers is a Southern California regional grocery chain that
operates 158 supermarkets and has been in business since 1936.

On August 30, 2004, the Company acquired 99-01 Queens
Boulevard, a 68,000 square foot free-standing building in Forest Hills, New
York for $26,500,000 in cash.

On November 2, 2004, the Company acquired a 50% joint
venture interest in a 92,500 square foot property located at Broome Street and
Broadway in New York City.  The Company
contributed $4,462,000 of equity and provided a $24,000,000 bridge loan with
interest at 10% per annum.  Upon the
refinancing of the bridge loan, which is expected to close in the second
quarter of 2005, the Company will be repaid $15,106,000 and the balance of
$8,894,000 will remain in the venture as additional equity.

On November 12, 2004 and December 1, 2004, the Company
acquired two shopping centers aggregating 185,000 square feet, in Lodi, New
Jersey and Long Island (Inwood), New York, for a total purchase price of
$36,600,000 in cash plus $10,900,000 of assumed debt.

In December 2004, the Company acquired two retail
condominiums aggregating 12,000 square feet, located at 386 and 387 West
Broadway in New York City for $16,900,000 in cash plus $4,700,000 of assumed
debt.


The following table sets forth the percentage of the
Retail Properties 2004 revenues by type of retailer:

The Company’s shopping center lease terms range from
five years or less in some instances for smaller tenant spaces to as long as
25 years for major tenants. Leases generally provide for additional rents
based on a percentage of tenants’ sales and pass through to tenants of the
tenants’ share of all common area charges (including roof and structure in
strip shopping centers, unless it is the tenant’s direct responsibility), real
estate taxes and insurance costs and certain capital expenditures. Percentage
rent accounted for less than 1% of total shopping center revenues in 2004.  None of the tenants in the Retail segment
accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s 2004 total revenues.

Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2%
or more of the Retail properties revenues in 2004:

See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for details of Stop
& Shop litigation.


The aggregate occupancy rate for the 14,210,000 square
feet of retail properties at December 31, 2004 is 93.9%.  The following sets forth the occupancy rate
and the average annual base rent per square foot for the Strip Shopping Centers
and Regional Malls at the end of each of the past five years.

Strip Shopping Centers:

Regional Malls:

Manhattan
Retail and Other:

Manhattan retail is comprised of 13 properties
containing 513,000 square feet.

The following table sets forth the lease expirations
for the Retail Properties as of December 31, 2004 for each of the next
10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.


During 2004, the Company leased 1,021,000 square
feet of Retail space as follows:

(1)

Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which
are not reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.


The following table sets forth the Retail Properties
owned by the Company as of December 31, 2004:



(1)

100% ground and/or building leasehold
interest; other than Green Acres, where approximately 10% of the ground is
leased.

(2)

These encumbrances are cross
collateralized under a blanket mortgage in the amount of $476,063,000 at
December 31, 2004.


Merchandise Mart Segment

The Merchandise Mart Properties are a portfolio of
8 properties containing an aggregate of 8.6 million square feet.

Below is a breakdown of square feet by location and
use as of December 31, 2004.

The Merchandise Mart Properties also contain seven
parking garages totaling 1,150,000 square feet (3,500 spaces).  The garage space is excluded from the
statistics provided in this section.

Office Space

The following table sets forth the percentage of the
Merchandise Mart Properties 2004 office revenues by tenants’ industry during
2004:


The Company’s Merchandise Mart properties lease terms
generally range from three to seven years for smaller tenants to as long as 15
years for large tenants. Leases typically provide for step-ups in rent
periodically over the term of the lease and pass through to tenants the tenants’
share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses for a building
over a base year. Electricity is provided to tenants on a sub-metered basis or
included in rent and adjusted for subsequent utility rate increases. Leases
also typically provide for tenant improvement allowances for all or a portion
of the tenant’s initial construction of its premises.

Below is a listing of the Merchandise Mart Properties
office tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the Merchandise Mart
Properties’ revenues in 2004:

The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and
the average annual escalated rent per square foot for the Merchandise Mart
Properties’ office space at the end of each of the past five years.

During 2004, the Company leased 568,740 square feet of
Merchandise Mart Properties office space as follows:

(1)

Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which
are not reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.


The following table sets forth lease expirations for
the Merchandise Mart Properties office space as of December 31, 2004 for each
of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their
renewal options.

Showroom Space

The showrooms provide manufacturers and wholesalers
with permanent and temporary space in which to display products for buyers,
specifiers and end users.  The showrooms
are also used for hosting trade shows for the contract furniture, casual
furniture, gifts, carpet, residential furnishings, building products, crafts,
apparel and design industries. 
Merchandise Mart Properties own and operate five of the leading
furniture and gifts trade shows including the contract furniture industry’s
largest annual trade show, NeoCon, which attracts over 45,000 attendees each
June and is hosted at the Merchandise Mart building in Chicago. The Market
Square Complex co-hosts the home furniture industry’s semi-annual (April and
October) market weeks which occupy over 11,500,000 square feet in the High
Point, North Carolina region.

The following table sets forth the percentage of the
Merchandise Mart Properties 2004 showroom revenues by tenants’ industry:


The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and
the average escalated rent per square foot for this space at the end of each of
the past five years.

During 2004, the Company leased 1,037,536 square feet
of Merchandise Mart Properties showroom space as follows:

(1)

Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent which
are not reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.

The following table sets forth lease expirations for
the Merchandise Mart Properties showroom space as of December 31, 2004 for each
of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal
options.

Retail Space

The Merchandise Mart Properties portfolio also
contains approximately 180,000 square feet of retail space which was 89.4%
occupied at December 31, 2004.


The following table sets forth the Merchandise Mart
Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 2004:


Temperature Controlled
Logistics Segment

Prior to November 18, 2004, the Company owned a 60%
interest in Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership (“VCPP”) which owned
Americold Realty Trust (“Americold”). 
Americold owns 88 temperature controlled warehouses, all of which were
leased to AmeriCold Logistics.  On
November 4, 2004, Americold purchased its tenant, AmeriCold Logistics, for
$47,700,000 in cash.  On November 18,
2004, the Company and its 40% partner, Crescent Real Estate Equities Company (“CEI”)
collectively sold 20.7% of Americold’s common shares to The Yucaipa Companies (“Yucaipa”)
for $145,000,000, which resulted in a gain, of which the Company’s share was
$18,789,000. The sale price was based on a $1.450 billion valuation for
Americold before debt and other obligations. 
Yucaipa is a private equity firm with significant expertise in the food
distribution, logistics and retail industries. 
Upon closing of the sale to Yucaipa on November 18, 2004, Americold is
owned 47.6% by the Company, 31.7% by CEI and 20.7% by Yucaipa. Pursuant to the
sales agreement: (i) Yucaipa may earn a promote of 20% of the increase in the
value of Americold through December 31, 2007, limited to 10% of the Company’s
and CEI’s remaining interest in Americold; (ii) the annual asset management fee
payable by CEI to the Company has been reduced from approximately $5,500,000 to
$4,548,000, payable quarterly through October 30, 2027.  CEI, at its option, may terminate the payment
of this fee at any time after November 2009, by paying the Company a
termination fee equal to the present value of the remaining payments through
October 30, 2027, discounted at 10%.  In
addition, CEI is obligated to pay a pro rata portion of the termination fee to
the extent it sells a portion of its equity interest in Americold; and (iii)
VCPP was dissolved.  The Company has the
right to appoint three of the five members to Americold’s Board of
Trustees.  Consequently, the Company is
deemed to exercise control over Americold and, on November 18, 2004, the Company
began to consolidate the operations and financial position of Americold into
its accounts and no longer accounts for its investment on the equity method.

AmeriCold Logistics, headquartered in Atlanta,
Georgia, provides the food industry with refrigerated warehousing and
transportation management services. Refrigerated warehouses are comprised of
production, distribution and public facilities. 
In addition, AmeriCold Logistics manages facilities owned by its customers
for which it earns fixed and incentive fees. 
Production facilities typically serve one or a small number of
customers, generally food processors that are located nearby. Customers store
large quantities of processed or partially processed products in these
facilities until they are shipped to the next stage of production or
distribution. Distribution facilities primarily warehouse a wide variety of
customers’ finished products until future shipment to end-users. Each
distribution facility generally services the surrounding regional market.
Public facilities generally serve the needs of local and regional customers
under short-term agreements. Food manufacturers and processors use these
facilities to store capacity overflow from their production facilities or
warehouses. AmeriCold Logistics’ transportation management services include
freight routing, dispatching, freight rate negotiation, backhaul coordination,
freight bill auditing, network flow management, order consolidation and
distribution channel assessment. AmeriCold Logistics’ temperature controlled
logistics expertise and access to both frozen food warehouses
and distribution channels enable its customers to respond quickly and
efficiently to time-sensitive orders from distributors and retailers.

AmeriCold Logistics’ customers consist primarily of
national, regional and local frozen food manufacturers, distributors, retailers
and food service organizations.  Below is
a listing of customers which accounted for 2% or more of AmeriCold Logistics’
revenue in 2004:

On November 18, 2004, Tony Schnug became Chief
Executive Officer of Americold.  Mr.
Schnug is a partner of The Yucaipa Companies responsible for conducting due
diligence of potential acquisitions and oversees management of portfolio
companies on strategy and operational issues. 
Previously, Mr. Schnug was an executive officer of Yucaipa portfolio
companies including Fred Meyer, Ralphs and Food 4 Less with responsibilities
covering logistics, manufacturing and construction.


The following table sets forth certain information for
the Temperature Controlled Logistics properties as of December 31, 2004:


(1)

Leasehold interest.

On February 5, 2004, Americold completed a
$254,400,000 mortgage financing for 21 of its owned and seven of its leased
temperature-controlled warehouses.  The
loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.95% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5% with
respect to $54,400,000 of the loan) and requires principal payments of
$5,000,000 annually.  The loan matures in
April 2009 and is pre-payable without penalty after February 5, 2006.  The net proceeds were approximately
$225,000,000 after providing for usual escrows, closing costs and the repayment
of $12,900,000 of existing mortgages on two of the warehouses, of which
$135,000,000 was distributed to the Company and the remainder was distributed
to its partner, CEI.  As at December 31,
2004, all except two of Americold’s properties are encumbered under
cross-collateralized mortgage loans aggregating $733,740,000.


Alexander’s

The Company owns 33% of Alexander’s outstanding common
shares.  The following table shows the
location, approximate size and leasing status of each of the properties owned
by Alexander’s as of December 31, 2004.

(1)

Excludes parking garages.

(2)

Excludes 339,000 square foot Macy’s store, owned and
operated by Federated Department Stores, Inc.

(3)

Leased by Alexander’s through January 2027.

731 Lexington Avenue

731 Lexington Avenue is a 1.3 million square foot
multi-use building.  The building
contains approximately 885,000 net rentable square feet of office space,
approximately 174,000 net rentable square feet of retail space and
approximately 248,000 net saleable square feet of residential space consisting
of 105 condominium units (through a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”)).  Of the construction budget of $630,000,000
(which excludes $29,000,000 for development and guarantee fees to the Company),
$489,400,000 has been expended through December 31, 2004 and an additional
$23,500,000 has been committed at December 31, 2004.  Construction is expected to be completed by
the end of 2005.

As of December 31, 2004, Alexander’s has leased
697,000 square feet of office space to Bloomberg L.P. and 144,000 square feet
of retail space to, among others, The Home Depot (excluding 14,800 square feet
of the mezzanine also leased to The Home Depot), Hennes & Mauritz and The
Container Store.  On January 25, 2005,
Alexander’s leased an additional 176,000 square feet of office space to
Citibank N.A.  As a result, 100% of the
property’s 885,000 square feet of office space has been leased.

The offering plan for the residential space, as
amended for price increases through December 31, 2004, would produce an
aggregate sale price of $500,000,000 (reflecting the value of existing
contracts and the offering price for the remaining units).  As of December 31, 2004, Alexander’s has
received deposits of $64,060,000 on sales of the condominium units.  On January 24, 2005 the offering plan was
declared effective by the State of New York at which time 83 units were under
sales contract.  Alexander’s expects to
close on these sales during 2005 and recognize approximately $38,000,000 of
income after taxes of which $32,000,000 will be recognized in the first quarter
using the percentage-of-completion method. 
The Company’s share of the income to be recognized in the first quarter
is $10,560,000.


On February 13, 2004, Alexander’s completed a
$400,000,000 mortgage financing on the office space of its Lexington Avenue
development project.  The loan bears
interest at 5.33%, matures in February 2014 and beginning in the third year,
provides for principal payments based on a 25-year amortization schedule such
that over the remaining eight years of the loan, ten years of amortization will
be paid.  Of the loan proceeds,
$253,529,000 was used to repay the entire amount outstanding under the
construction loan.  The construction loan
was modified so that the remaining availability is $237,000,000, which was
approximately the amount estimated to complete the Lexington Avenue development
project.  The interest rate on the
construction loan is LIBOR plus 2.5% (4.92% at December 31, 2004) and matures
in January 2006, with two one-year extensions. 
The collateral for the construction loan is the same, except that the
office space has been removed from the lien. 
Further, the construction loan permits the release of the retail space
for a payment of $15,000,000 and requires all proceeds from the sale of the
residential condominium units to be applied to the construction loan balance
until it is finally repaid.

The Company guaranteed to the 731 Lexington Avenue
construction lender, the lien free, timely completion of the construction of
the project and funding of project costs in excess of a stated budget, if not
funded by Alexander’s (the “Completion Guarantee”).  The $6,300,000 estimated fee payable by
Alexander’s to the Company for the Completion Guarantee is 1% of construction
costs (as defined).  Based upon the
current status of construction, management does not anticipate a requirement to
fund pursuant to this completion guarantee.

The Newkirk Master
Limited Partnership

In 1998, the Company and affiliates of Apollo Real
Estate Investment Fund III, L.P. (“Apollo”) formed a joint venture (30% owned
by the Company and 70% owned by Apollo) (“Newkirk JV”) to acquire general and
limited partnership interests in a portfolio of 104 partnerships, which own
triple net leased properties.  Since its
formation, Newkirk JV has acquired equity interests in the above partnerships,
which own approximately 19.6 million square feet of real estate and acquired
certain first and second mortgages (“Contract Rights”) secured by a portion of
these properties.  On January 1, 2002,
Newkirk JV completed a merger of 91 of the partnerships as well as the other
assets it owned relating to the other 13 partnerships into The Newkirk Master
Limited Partnership (“MLP”).  The
partnerships were merged into MLP to create a vehicle to enable the partners to
have greater access to capital and future investment opportunities.  In connection with the merger, the Company
received limited partner interests in the MLP equal to an approximate 21.1%
interest and Apollo received limited partner interests in the MLP equal to an
approximate 54.5% interest. At December 31, 2004, the Company has a 22.4%
interest in the MLP.  Newkirk JV is the
general partner of the MLP.

The Company’s share of the MLP and the joint venture
debt was approximately $213,688,000 at December 31, 2004.

The following table sets forth a summary of the real
estate owned throughout the United States by the MLP:

As of December 31, 2004, the occupancy rate of
the MLP’s properties is 98.6%.


The primary lease terms range from 20 to 25 years from
their original commencement dates with rents, typically above market, which fully
amortize the first mortgage debt on the properties.  In addition, tenants generally have multiple
renewal options, with rents, on average, below market.

Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2%
or more of the MLP’s revenues in 2004:

The following table sets forth lease expirations for
each of the next 10 years, as of December 31, 2004, assuming that none of
the tenants exercise their renewal options.


Hotel Pennsylvania

The Hotel Pennsylvania is located in New York City on
Seventh Avenue opposite Madison Square Garden and consists of a hotel portion
containing 1,000,000 square feet of hotel space with 1,700 rooms and a
commercial portion containing 400,000 square feet of retail and office
space.  The following table presents
rental information for the Hotel:

GMH Communities L.P.

At December 31, 2004, the Company has a 12.25%
interest in GMH Communities L.P. (“GMH”), resulting from the Company’s
conversion of warrants into 6.7 million limited partnership units of GMH
Communities LP on November 3, 2004.  In
addition, the Company holds warrants to purchase an additional 5.6 million
limited partnership units of GMH or common shares of GMH Communities Trust (“GCT”)
at a price of $8.99 per unit or share through May 2, 2006.  See page 7 for further details.  GMH owns 30 student housing properties,
aggregating 7.8 million square feet and 19,085 beds, and manages an additional
20 properties that serve colleges and universities throughout the United
States.  In addition, GMH manages 51
military housing projects containing 101,216 units under long-term agreements
with the United States Government.  GMH
has $359,276,000 of debt outstanding at December 31, 2004, of which the Company’s
share is $44,011,000.

Dry Warehouse/Industrial
Properties

The Company’s dry warehouse/industrial properties
consist of seven buildings in New Jersey containing approximately
1.7 million square feet.  The
properties are encumbered by two cross-collateralized mortgage loans
aggregating $48,385,000 as of December 31, 2004.  Average lease terms range from three to five
years.  The following table sets forth
the occupancy rate and average annual rent per square foot at the end of each
of the past five years.

(1)

Excludes the Company’s East Brunswick
industrial warehouse.  In
November 2002, the Company entered into an agreement to ground lease the
East Brunswick industrial property to Lowe’s.  In connection therewith, the Company is
razing the 326,000 square foot warehouse and Lowe’s will construct its own
retail store on the site.

400 North LaSalle

The 400 North LaSalle
venture was formed in July 2001, to develop a 381,000 square foot, high-rise
residential tower with an attached parking garage in Chicago Illinois,
containing 452 apartments.  Under the
agreement the Company contributed 92% of the equity and is entitled to receive
85% of the profits.  The development of
the residential tower and garage was substantially completed and phased into
service as of January 2004 and is 90.0% occupied as of December 31, 2004.  As of December 31, 2004, the Company has
classified this asset as held for sale on its consolidated balance sheets and
the related revenues and expenses as discontinued operations on the consolidated
statements of operations.


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is from time to time involved in legal
actions arising in the ordinary course of its business.  In the opinion of management, after
consultation with legal counsel, the outcome of such matters, including in
respect of the matter referred to below, is not expected to have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operation.

Stop & Shop

On January 8, 2003, Stop & Shop filed a
complaint with the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
(“USDC-NJ”) claiming the Company has no right to reallocate and therefore
continue to collect the $5,000,000 of annual rent from Stop & Shop
pursuant to the Master Agreement and Guaranty, because of the expiration of the
East Brunswick, Jersey City, Middletown, Union and Woodbridge leases
to which the $5,000,000 of additional rent was previously allocated.  Stop & Shop asserted that a prior order
of the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York dated February 6,
2001, as modified on appeal to the District Court for the Southern District of
New York on February 13, 2001, froze the Company’s right to re-allocate which
effectively terminated the Company’s right to collect the additional rent from
Stop & Shop.  On March 3, 2003, after
the Company moved to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction, Stop & Shop
voluntarily withdrew its complaint.  On
March 26, 2003, Stop & Shop filed a new complaint in New York Supreme
Court, asserting substantially the same claims as in its USDC-NJ
complaint.  On April 9, 2003, the Company
moved the New York Supreme Court action to the United States District Court for
the Southern District of New York.  Stop
& Shop moved to remand and both sides moved for summary judgment.  On June 30, 2003, the District Court ordered
that the case be placed in suspense and ordered the parties to proceed with a
motion for interpretation that the Company made in the United States Bankruptcy
Court for the Southern District of New York.  On July 24, 2003, the Bankruptcy Court
referred the motion to mediation.  The
mediation concluded in June 2004 without resolving the dispute.  On June 9, 2004, after reconvening the
hearing on the Company’s motion for interpretation, the Bankruptcy Court entered
an order abstaining from hearing the Company’s motion.  On June 17, 2004, the Company filed a notice
of appeal from the Bankruptcy Court’s order to the District Court.  On January 19, 2005, the District Court
issued a decision affirming the Bankruptcy Court’s decision and remanded the
removed action to the New York Supreme Court. 
The Company believes that the additional rent provision of the guaranty
expires at the earliest in 2012 and will vigorously oppose Stop & Shop’s
complaint.

Vornado Operating
Company

In November 2004, a class action shareholder
derivative lawsuit was brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery against
Vornado Operating Company (“Vornado Operating”), its directors and the
Company.  The lawsuit sought to enjoin
the dissolution of Vornado Operating, rescind the previously completed sale of
AmeriCold Logistics (owned 60% by Vornado Operating) to Americold Realty Trust
(owned 60% by the Company) and damages. 
In addition, the plaintiffs claimed that the Vornado Operating directors
breached their fiduciary duties.  On
November 24, 2004, a stipulation of settlement was entered into under which the
Company agreed to settle the lawsuit with a payment of approximately $4.5
million or about $1 per Vornado Operating share or partnership unit before
litigation expenses. The proposed settlement payment would be in addition to
the liquidation distribution of $2 per Vornado Operating share or unit that
Vornado Operating made to its equity-holders when it dissolved on December 29,
2004.  On January 20, 2005, the Delaware
Court of Chancery postponed deciding upon the proposed settlement and requested

further but limited
information before holding an additional hearing regarding the settlement,
which has been scheduled for March 2005. 
The Company has accrued the proposed settlement payment and
related legal costs as part of “general and administrative expense” in the
fourth quarter of 2004.  The Company believes that the ultimate outcome
of this matter will not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2004.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following is a list of the names, ages, principal
occupations and positions with Vornado of the executive officers of Vornado and
the positions held by such officers during the past five years. All executive
officers of Vornado have terms of office that run until the next succeeding
meeting of the Board of Trustees of Vornado following the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders unless they are removed sooner by the Board.


PART II

ITEM 5

.

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Vornado’s common shares are traded on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol “VNO.”

Quarterly closing price ranges of the common shares
and dividends paid per share for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003 were as follows:

(1)

Comprised of a regular
quarterly dividend of $.71 per share and a special capital gain cash
dividend of $.16 per share.

On February 1, 2005, there were 1,626 holders of
record of the Company’s common shares.

Recent
Sales of Unregistered Securities

During 2003 and 2002 the Company issued 737,212 and
176,848 common shares, respectively, upon the redemption of Class A
units of the Operating Partnership held by persons who received units in
private placements in earlier periods in exchange for their interests in
limited partnerships that owned real estate. The common shares were issued
without registration under the Securities Act of 1933 in reliance on
Section 4(2) of that Act.

Information relating to compensation plans under which
equity securities of the Company are authorized for issuance is set forth under
Part III, Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 6

.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA:


(1)

FFO is computed in accordance with the definition adopted by the Board of
Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”).  NAREIT defines FFO as net income or loss
determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”),
excluding extraordinary items as defined under GAAP and gains or losses from
sales of previously depreciated operating real estate assets, plus specified
non-cash items, such as real estate asset depreciation and amortization, and
after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.  FFO and FFO per diluted share are used by
management, investors and industry analysts as supplemental measures of
operating performance of equity REITs. 
FFO and FFO per diluted share should be evaluated along with GAAP net
income and income per diluted share (the most directly comparable GAAP measures),
as well as cash flow from operating activities, investing activities and
financing activities, in evaluating the operating performance of equity
REITs.  Management believes that FFO and
FFO per diluted share are helpful to investors as supplemental performance
measures because these measures exclude the effect of depreciation,
amortization and gains or losses from sales of real estate, all of which are
based on historical costs which implicitly assumes that the value of real
estate diminishes predictably over time. 
Since real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with
market conditions, these non-GAAP measures can facilitate comparisons of
operating performance between periods and among other equity REITs.  FFO does not represent cash generated from
operating activities in accordance with GAAP and is not necessarily indicative
of cash available to fund cash needs as disclosed in the Company’s Statements
of Cash Flows.  FFO should not be
considered as an alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company’s
operating performance or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of
liquidity.

(2)

Operating results
for the year ended December 31, 2004, reflect the consolidation of the Company’s
investment in Americold Realty Trust beginning on November 18, 2004.  Previously, this investment was accounted for
on the equity method.

(3)

Operating results
for the year ended December 31, 2002, reflect the Company’s
January 1, 2002 acquisition of the remaining 66% of Charles E. Smith
Commercial Realty L.P. (“CESCR”) and the resulting consolidation of CESCR’s
operations.


ITEM 7

.          MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


Overview

The
Company owns and operates office, retail and showroom properties with large
concentrations of office and retail properties in the New York City
metropolitan area and in the Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia area.  In addition, the Company has a 47.6% interest
in an entity that owns and operates 88 cold storage warehouses nationwide.

The
Company’s business objective is to maximize shareholder value.  The Company’s measures its success in meeting
this objective by the total return to its shareholders.  Below is a table comparing the Company’s
performance to the Morgan Stanley REIT Index (“RMS”) for the following periods
ending December 31, 2004:

(1)   Past performance is not necessarily
indicative of how the Company will perform in the future.

(2)

From inception on
July 25, 1995

The
Company intends to continue to achieve its business objective by pursuing its
investment philosophy and executing its operating strategies through:

•

Maintaining a superior team of
operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit.

•

Investing in properties in select
markets, such as New York City and Washington, D.C., where we believe there is
high likelihood of capital appreciation.

•

Acquiring quality properties at a
discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for
higher rents.

•

Investing in retail properties in
select under-stored locations such as the New York City metropolitan area.

•

Developing/redeveloping the Company’s
existing properties to increase returns and maximize value.

The
Company competes with a large number of real estate property owners and
developers.  Principal factors of
competition are rent charged, attractiveness of location and quality and
breadth of services provided.  The
Company’s success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and
local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and
prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital,
construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation
and population trends.  Economic growth
has been fostered, in part, by low interest rates, Federal tax cuts, and
increases in government spending.  To the
extent economic growth stalls, the Company may experience lower occupancy rates
which may lead to lower initial rental rates, higher leasing costs and a
corresponding decrease in net income, funds from operations and cash flow.  Alternatively, if economic growth is
sustained, the Company may experience higher occupancy rates leading to higher
initial rents and higher interest rates causing an increase in the Company’s
weighted average cost of capital and a corresponding effect on net income,
funds from operations and cash flow.

2004 Acquisitions

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company
completed $328,600,000 of acquisitions and investments in real estate, of which
$246,600,000 related to the retail segment. 
In addition, the Company made $183,400,000 of mezzanine loans during
2004 which increased the outstanding balance of Notes and Mortgage Loans
Receivable to $440,186,000 at December 31, 2004.  Following are the details of these
transactions.

On February 3, 2004, the Company acquired the Forest
Plaza Shopping Center for approximately $32,500,000, of which $14,000,000 was
paid in cash and $18,500,000 was debt assumed. 
Forest Plaza is a 165,000 square foot shopping center located in Staten
Island, New York.


Overview - continued

On March 19, 2004, the Company acquired a 62,000
square foot free-standing retail building located at 25 W. 14

th

Street in Manhattan for $40,000,000 in cash.

On July 1, 2004, the Company
acquired the Marriott hotel located in its Crystal City office complex from a
limited partnership in which Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod, trustees of
the Company, together with family members own approximately 67 percent.  The purchase price of $21,500,000 was paid in
cash

.

The hotel contains 343 rooms and is leased to
an affiliate of Marriott International, Inc. until July 31, 2015, with one
10-year extension option.  The land under
the hotel was acquired in 1999.

On July 29, 2004, the Company acquired a real estate
portfolio containing 25 supermarkets for $65,000,000 in cash.  These properties, all of which are all
located in Southern California and contain an aggregate of approximately
766,000 square feet, were purchased from the Newkirk MLP, in which the
Company currently owns a 22.4% interest. 
The supermarkets are net leased to Stater Brothers for an initial
term expiring in 2008, with six 5-year extension options.  Stater Brothers is a Southern California
regional grocery chain that operates 158 supermarkets and has been in
business since 1936.

On August 30, 2004, the Company acquired a 68,000
square foot free-standing building in Forest Hills, New York for $26,500,000 in
cash.  The property is located at 99-01
Queens Boulevard and its principal tenants are Rite Aid and Fleet Bank.

On November 2, 2004, the Company acquired a 50% joint
venture interest in a 92,500 square foot property located at Broome Street and
Broadway in New York City.  The Company
contributed $4,462,000 of equity and provided a $24,000,000 bridge loan with
interest at 10% per annum.  Upon the
refinancing of the bridge loan, which is expected to close in the second
quarter of 2005, the Company will be repaid $15,106,000 and the balance of
$8,894,000 will remain in the venture as additional equity.

On November 12, 2004 and December 1, 2004, the Company
acquired two shopping centers aggregating 185,000 square feet, in Lodi, New
Jersey and Long Island (Inwood), New York, for a total purchase price of
$36,600,000 in cash plus $10,900,000 of assumed debt.

In December 2004, the Company acquired two retail
condominiums aggregating 12,000 square feet, located at 386 and 387 West
Broadway in New York City for $16,900,000 in cash plus $4,700,000 of assumed
debt.

Investment in GMH Communities L.P.

On July 20, 2004, the Company committed to make up to
a $159,000,000 convertible preferred investment in GMH Communities L.P. (“GMH”),
a partnership focused on the student and military housing sectors.  Distributions accrued on the full committed
balance of the investment, whether or not drawn, from July 20, 2004, at a rate
of 16.27%.  In connection with this
commitment, the Company received a placement fee of $3,200,000.  The Company also purchased for $1,000,000,
warrants to acquire GMH common equity. 
These warrants entitle the Company to acquire (i) 6,666,667 limited
partnership units in GMH at an exercise price of $7.50 per unit and (ii)
5,496,724 limited partnership units, through May 6, 2006, at an exercise price
of $9.10 per unit.  As of November 3,
2004, the Company had funded a total of $113,777,000 of the commitment.

On November 3, 2004, GCT closed its initial public
offering (“IPO”) at a price of $12.00 per share.  GCT is a real estate investment trust that
conducts its business through GMH, of which it is the sole general
partner.  In connection with the IPO, the
$113,777,000 previously funded by the Company under the $159,000,000 commitment
was repaid, together with accrued distributions of $13,381,000.  The Company also exercised warrants to
purchase 6,666,667 limited partnership units at a price of $7.50 per unit, or
$50,000,000 in total, which resulted in a net gain of $29,500,000.  The Company accounts for its interest in the
partnership units on the equity-method based on its 12.25% ownership interest
and right to appoint one of its executive officers to GCT’s Board of
Trustees.  The Company records its pro-rata
share of GMH’s net income or loss on a one-quarter lag basis as the Company
files its financial statements on Form 10-K or 10-Q prior to the time GMH files
its financial statements.


Overview - continued

Under the warrant agreement, the number of GMH
partnership units or GCT common shares underlying the warrants is adjusted for
dividends declared by GCT.  On December
16, 2004, GCT declared a dividend of $.16 per common share, which increased the
number of shares underlying the warrants from 5,496,724 to 5,563,417 and the
exercise price was decreased from $9.10 to $8.99 per share.

Because
these warrants are derivatives and do not qualify for hedge accounting
treatment, the gains and losses resulting from the mark-to-market of the
warrants at the end of each reporting period are recognized as an increase or
decrease in “interest and other investment income” on the Company’s
consolidated statement of income.  In the
quarter ended December 31, 2004, the Company recognized income of $24,190,000
from the mark-to-market of these warrants, which were valued using a trinomial
option pricing model based on GCT’s closing stock price on the NYSE of $14.10
per share on December 31, 2004.

Further, in connection with the IPO, the Company
contributed its 90% interest in Campus Club Gainesville, which it acquired
in 2000, in exchange for an additional 671,190 GMH limited partnership units.

Of the Company’s GMH units, 6,666,667 may be converted
into an equivalent number of common shares of GCT commencing on May 2, 2005 and
671,190 units may be converted commencing on November 2, 2005.  The Company has agreed not to sell any common
shares or units it owns or may acquire until May 2, 2005.

Investment in Sears, Roebuck and Co.

In July and August 2004, the Company acquired an
aggregate of 1,176,600 common shares of Sears, Roebuck and Co. (“Sears”) for
$41,945,000, an average price of $35.65 per share. Included in the cost is
$1,361,000 for a performance-based participation.  These shares are recorded as marketable
securities on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet and are classified as “available
for sale.”  Appreciation or depreciation
in the fair market value of these shares is recorded as an increase or decrease
in “accumulated other comprehensive income” in the shareholders’ equity section
of the Company’s consolidated balance sheet and not recognized in income.  At December 31, 2004, based on Sears’ closing
stock price of $51.03 per share, $18,105,000 of appreciation in the value of
these shares was included in “accumulated other comprehensive income.”

In August and September 2004, the Company acquired an
economic interest in an additional 7,916,900 Sears common shares through a
series of privately negotiated transactions with a financial institution
pursuant to which the Company purchased a call option and simultaneously sold a
put option at the same strike price on Sears common shares.  These call and put options have an initial
weighted-average strike price of  $39.82
per share, or an aggregate of $315,250,000, expire in April 2006 and provide
for net cash settlement.  Under these
agreements, the strike price for each pair of options increases at an annual
rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis points and is credited for the dividends received
on the shares.  The options provide the
Company with the same economic gain or loss as if it had purchased the
underlying common shares and borrowed the aggregate strike price at an annual
rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis points. 
Because these options are derivatives and do not qualify for hedge
accounting treatment, the gains or losses resulting from the mark-to-market of
the options at the end of each reporting period are recognized as an increase
or decrease in “interest and other investment income” on the Company’s
consolidated statement of income.  During
the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company recorded net income of
$81,730,000, comprised of (i) $88,782,000 from the mark-to-market of the
options on December 31, 2004, based on Sears’ closing stock price of $51.03 per
share and (ii) $2,295,000 for accrued dividends, partially offset by (i)
$5,972,000 for a performance-based participation, (ii) $2,371,000 for the
increase in strike price resulting from the LIBOR charge and (iii) $1,004,000
of professional fees.

On November 16, 2004, Kmart Holding Corporation (“Kmart”)
and Sears entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger.  Upon the effective date of the merger, each
share of Sears common stock will be converted into the right to receive, at the
election of the holder, (i) $50.00 in cash or (ii) 0.50 shares of common stock
of the merged company, subject to proration so that 55% of the Sears shares are
exchanged for shares of the merged company.

Based on Sears’ most recent filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, the Company’s aggregate investment in Sears represents
4.2% of Sears’ outstanding common shares.


Overview - continued

2004 Dispositions

In anticipation of selling the Palisades Residential
Complex, on February 27, 2004, the Company acquired the remaining 25% interest
in the Palisades venture it did not previously own for approximately
$17,000,000 in cash.  On June 29, 2004,
the Company sold the Palisades for $222,500,000, which resulted in a gain on
sale after closing costs of $65,905,000.

On August 12, 2004, the Company sold its Dundalk, Maryland shopping
center for $12,900,000, which resulted in a net gain on sale after closing
costs of $9,850,000.

2004 Financings

On January 6, 2004, the Company redeemed all of its
8.375% Series D-2 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units at a redemption price
equal to $50.00 per unit for an aggregate of $27,500,000 plus accrued
distributions.

On March 17, 2004, the Company redeemed all of its
Series B Preferred Shares at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share for
an aggregate of $85,000,000 plus accrued dividends.  The redemption amount exceeded the carrying
amount by $3,195,000, representing the original issuance costs.  Upon redemption, these issuance costs were
recorded as a reduction to earnings in arriving at net income applicable to
common shares, in accordance with the July 2003 EITF clarification of Topic
D-42.

On May 27, 2004, the Company
sold $35,000,000 of 7.2% Series D-11 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units to
an institutional investor in a private placement. These perpetual preferred
units may be called without penalty at the Company’s option commencing in May
2009.

On August 16, 2004, the Company completed a public
offering of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.50% senior unsecured
notes due August 15, 2009.  Interest on
the notes is payable semi-annually on February 15, and August 15, commencing
February 15, 2005.  The notes were priced
at 99.797% of their face amount to yield 4.546%.  The notes are subject to the same financial
covenants as the Company’s previously issued senior unsecured debt.

On August 17, 2004, the Company sold $75,000,000 of
7.0% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares at a price of $25.00 per
share, in a public offering pursuant to an effective registration
statement.  The Company may redeem the
Series E Preferred Shares at a redemption price of $25.00 per share after
August 20, 2009.

On November 10, 2004, the Company sold $150,000,000 of
6.75% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares at a price of $25.00 per
share, in a public offering pursuant to an effective registration
statement.  The Company may redeem the
Series F Preferred Shares at a redemption price of $25.00 per share after
November 17, 2009.

On December 16, 2004, the Company sold $200,000,000 of
6.625% Series G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares at a price of $25.00 per
share, in a public offering pursuant to an effective registration statement.  The Company may redeem the Series G Preferred
Shares at a redemption price of $25.00 per share after January 19, 2005.

On December 17, 2004, the Company sold $20,000,000 of
6.55% Series D-12 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units to an institutional investor
in a private offering.  The Series D-12
units may be called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing in
December 2009.

On December 30, 2004, the Company sold $46,700,000 of
3.0% Series D-13 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units to an institutional
investor in a private offering.  The
Series D-13 units may be called without penalty at the option of the Company
commencing in December 2011.  The Series
D-13 units may also be redeemed at the option of the holder commencing on
December 2006.

On January 19, 2005, the Company redeemed all of its
8.5% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares and $80,000,000 of its
Series D-3 Perpetual Preferred Units at the stated redemption price of $25.00
per share or $115,000,000, plus accrued distributions.  The redemption amount exceeded the carrying
amount by $6,052,000, representing the original issuance costs.  Upon redemption in the first quarter of 2005,
these issuance costs were recorded as a reduction to earnings in arriving at
net income applicable to common shares, in accordance with the July 2003 EITF
clarification of Topic D-42.


Overview –
Leasing Activity

The following table summarizes,
by business segment, the leasing statistics which the Company views as key
performance indicators.

In addition to the leasing activity in the table
above, in the year ended December 31, 2004, 51,000 square feet of retail
space included in the New York City Office segment was leased at an initial
rent of $118.39 per square foot and in the three months ended December 31,
2004, 9,000 square feet of retail space was leased at an initial rent of
$73.86.


Overview - Leasing Activity - continued

(1)

Most leases include
periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in the initial rent per
square foot leased.

(2)

Excludes Crystal Plazas
3 and 4 containing an aggregate of 497 square feet which were taken out of
service for redevelopment.  See
discussion of Crystal City PTO space below.


Overview - Leasing Activity - continued

Crystal City PTO Space

The PTO vacated 937,000 square feet in Crystal City in
the fourth quarter of 2004, of which 497,000 has been taken out of service, and
will vacate another 1,002,000 square feet during 2005 and the first quarter of
2006.  As of February 1, 2005, the
Company has leased 416,000 square feet of the PTO space vacated.  Of this space, 262,000 square feet was leased
to the Federal Supply Service which will be relocated from 240,000 square feet
in other Crystal City buildings, 122,000 square feet was leased to the Public
Broadcasting Service and 32,000 square feet was leased to Lockheed Martin.

Below is a comparison of the Company’s actual leasing
activity to the Company’s projection for the lease-up of this space:

Straight-line rent per square foot for the actual
square feet leased is $32.34 as compared to $31.94 projected.  Actual tenant improvements and leasing
commissions per square foot is $45.25 as compared to $45.28 projected.

The Company’s original redevelopment plans for the PTO
space included taking Crystal Park One and Crystal Plaza Three and Four out of
service.  Plans for Crystal Plaza Three
and Four have not changed.  Current plans
for Crystal Park One are to lease its 224,000 square feet to private sector
tenants which will not require taking the building out of service, as opposed
to leasing it to another government agency which would have required taking it
out of service.  As a result, the Company
will recognize approximately $4,000,000 of expense in 2005, which under the
original plan would have been capitalized as part of development costs.


Critical Accounting Policies

In preparing the consolidated financial statements
management has made estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual
results could differ from those estimates. 
Set forth below is a summary of the accounting policies that management
believes are critical to the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements.  The summary should be read
in conjunction with the more complete discussion of the Company’s accounting
policies included in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in this
annual report on Form 10-K.

Real Estate

Real estate is carried at cost, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization.  As of
December 31, 2004, the Company’s carrying amount of its real estate, net
of accumulated depreciation is $8.3 billion. 
Maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.  Depreciation requires an estimate by
management of the useful life of each property and improvement as well as an
allocation of the costs associated with a property to its various
components.  If the Company does not
allocate these costs appropriately or incorrectly estimates the useful lives of
its real estate, depreciation expense may be misstated.

Upon acquisitions of real estate, the Company assesses
the fair value of acquired assets (including land, buildings and improvements,
identified intangibles such as acquired above and below market leases and
acquired in-place leases and customer relationships) and acquired liabilities
in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”)
No. 141: Business Combinations and SFAS No. 142: Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets, and allocates purchase price based on these assessments.  The Company assesses fair value based on
estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and
capitalization rates and available market information.  Estimates of future cash flows are based on a
number of factors including the historical operating results, known trends, and
market/economic conditions that may affect the property.  The Company’s properties, including any
related intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment if events or
circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of the assets may not
be recoverable.  If the Company
incorrectly estimates the values at acquisition or the undiscounted cash flows,
initial allocations of purchase price and future impairment charges may be
different.  The impact of the Company’s
estimates in connection with acquisitions and future impairment analysis could
be material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Identified Intangible Assets

Upon an acquisition of a business the Company
records intangible assets acquired at their estimated fair value separate and
apart from goodwill.  The Company
amortizes identified intangible assets that are determined to have finite lives
which are based on the period over which the assets are expected to contribute
directly or indirectly to the future cash flows of the business acquired.  Intangible assets subject to amortization are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that its carrying amount may not be recoverable.  An impairment loss is recognized if the
carrying amount of an intangible asset, including the related real estate when
appropriate, is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its estimated
fair value.

As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the carrying
amounts of the Company’s identified intangible assets are $176,314,000 and
$130,875,000, respectively.  Such amounts
are included in “other assets” on the Company’s consolidated balance
sheet.  In addition, the Company has
$71,272,000 and $47,359,000, of identified intangible liabilities as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, which are included in “deferred credit” on the
Company’s consolidated balance sheets. 
If these assets are deemed to be impaired, or the estimated useful lives
of finite-life intangibles change, the impact to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements could be material.


Notes and Mortgage Loans Receivable

The Company’s policy is
to record mortgages and notes receivable at the stated principal amount net of
any discount or premium.  As of December
31, 2004, the carrying amount of Notes and Mortgage Loans Receivable was
$440,186,000.  The Company accretes or
amortizes any discounts or premiums over the life of the related loan
receivable utilizing the effective interest method.  The Company evaluates the collectibility of
both interest and principal of each of its loans, if circumstances warrant, to
determine whether it is impaired. A loan is considered to be impaired, when
based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will
be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual
terms. When a loan is considered to be impaired, the amount of the loss accrual
is calculated by comparing the recorded investment to the value determined by
discounting the expected future cash flows at the loan’s effective interest
rate or, as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan
is collateral dependent.  The impact of
the Company’s estimates in connection with the collectibility of both interest
and principal of its loans could be material to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.

Partially-Owned Entities

As of December 31, 2004, the carrying amount of
investments and advances to partially-owned entities, including Alexander’s,
was $605,300,000.  In determining whether
the Company has a controlling interest in a partially-owned entity and the
requirement to consolidate the accounts of that entity, it considers factors
such as ownership interest, board representation, management representation,
authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating
rights of the partners/members as well as whether the entity is a variable
interest entity in which it will absorb the majority of the entity’s expected
losses, if they occur, or receive the majority of the expected residual
returns, if they occur, or both. The Company has concluded that it does not
have a controlling ownership interest with respect to the Company’s 80%
interest in Starwood Ceruzzi Venture, and 50% interests in Monmouth Mall, Wells
Kinzie, Orleans Hubbard and 825 Seventh Avenue.

The Company consolidates entities that it is able to
control.  The Company accounts for
investments on the equity method when its ownership interest is greater than
20% and less than 50%, and the Company does not have direct or indirect
control.  When partially-owned entities
are in partnership form, the 20% threshold may be reduced.  Equity method investments are initially
recorded at cost and subsequently adjusted for the Company’s share of net
income or loss and cash contributions and distributions to and from these
entities.  All other investments are
accounted for on the cost method.

On a periodic basis the Company evaluates whether
there are any indicators that the value of the Company’s investments in
partially-owned entities are impaired. 
The ultimate realization of the Company’s investment in partially-owned
entities is dependent on a number of factors including the performance of the
investee and market conditions.  If the
Company determines that a decline in the value of the investee is other than
temporary, an impairment charge would be recorded.

Allowance For Doubtful Accounts

The Company periodically evaluates the collectibility
of amounts due from tenants and maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts
($17,339,000 as at December 31, 2004) for estimated losses resulting from the
inability of tenants to make required payments under the lease agreement.  The Company also maintains an allowance for
receivables arising from the straight-lining of rents ($6,787,000 as at
December 31, 2004).  This receivable
arises from earnings recognized in excess of amounts currently due under the
lease agreements.  Management exercises
judgment in establishing these allowances and considers payment history and
current credit status in developing these estimates.  These estimates may differ from actual
results, which could be material to the Company’s consolidated financial
statements.


Revenue Recognition

The Company has the following revenue sources and
revenue recognition policies:

•

Base Rents — income arising from tenant leases.  These rents are recognized over the
non-cancelable term of the related leases on a straight-line basis which
includes the effects of rent steps and rent abatements under the leases.

•

Percentage Rents — income arising from retail tenant
leases which are contingent upon the sales of the tenant exceeding a defined
threshold.  These rents are recognized in
accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104: Revenue Recognition, which
states that this income is to be recognized only after the contingency has been
removed (i.e. sales thresholds have been achieved).

•

Hotel Revenues — income arising from the operation
of the Hotel Pennsylvania which consists of rooms revenue, food and beverage
revenue, and banquet revenue.  Income is
recognized when rooms are occupied.  Food
and beverage and banquet revenue are recognized when the services have been
rendered.

•

Trade Show Revenues — income arising from the
operation of trade shows, including rentals of booths.  This revenue is recognized in accordance with
the booth rental contracts when the trade shows have occurred.

•

Expense Reimbursements — revenue arising from tenant
leases which provide for the recovery of all or a portion of the operating
expenses and real estate taxes of the respective property.  This revenue is accrued in the same periods
as the expenses are incurred.

•

Temperature Controlled Logistics revenue – income
arising from the Company’s investment in Americold.  Storage and handling revenue is recognized as
services are provided.  Transportation
fees are recognized upon delivery to customers.

•

Management, Leasing and Other Fees – income arising
from contractual agreements with third parties or with partially-owned
entities.  This revenue is recognized as
the related services are performed under the respective agreements.

Before the Company recognizes revenue, it assesses
among other things, its collectibility. 
If the Company’s assessment of the collectibility of its revenue
changes, the impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements could be
material.

Income

Taxes

The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it
to continue to qualify as a Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”) under
Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Under those
sections, a REIT which distributes at least 90% of its REIT taxable income as a
dividend to its shareholders each year and which meets certain other conditions
will not be taxed on that portion of its taxable income which is distributed to
its shareholders. The Company intends to distribute to its shareholders 100% of
its taxable income.  Therefore, no
provision for Federal income taxes is required. 
If the Company fails to distribute the required amount of income to its
shareholders, or fails to meet other REIT requirements, it may fail to qualify
as a REIT and substantial adverse tax consequences may result.


Net
income and EBITDA(1) for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Below is a summary of Net income and EBITDA(1) by
segment for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.  On January 1, 2003, the Company revised its
definition of EBITDA to comply with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
Regulation G concerning non-GAAP financial measures.  The revised definition of EBITDA includes
minority interest, gains (losses) on the sale of depreciable real estate and
income arising from the straight-lining of rent and the amortization of
acquired in-place leases.  Accordingly,
EBITDA for all periods disclosed represents “Earnings before Interest, Taxes,
Depreciation and Amortization.” 
Management considers EBITDA a supplemental measure for making decisions
and assessing the unlevered performance of its segments as it is related to the
return on assets as opposed to the levered return on equity.  As properties are bought and sold based on a
multiple of EBITDA, management utilizes this measure to make investment
decisions as well as to compare the performance of its assets to that of its
peers.  EBITDA is not a surrogate for net
income because net income is after interest expense and accordingly, is a
measure of return on equity as opposed to return on assets.

Included in EBITDA(1) are (i) gains on sale of real estate of $75,755,
of which $9,850 and $65,905 are in the Retail and Other segments, respectively,
and (ii) net gains from the mark-to-market and conversion of derivative
instruments of $135,372 and certain other gains and losses that affect
comparability which are in the Other segment. 
Excluding these items the percentages of EBITDA by segment are 63.6% for
Office, 16.6% for Retail, 12.4% for Merchandise Mart, 7.0% for Temperature
Controlled Logistics and 0.4% for Other.

See Notes on page 67.


Included in EBITDA are gains on sale of real estate of $161,789, of
which and $157,200 and $4,589 are in the Office and Retail segments,
respectively.  Excluding these items, the
percentages of EBITDA by segment are 69.3% for Office, 15.9% for Retail, 13.5%
for Merchandise Mart, 8.9% for Temperature Controlled Logistics and (7.6)% for
Other.

See Notes on page 67.


See Notes on the following page.


Notes to the preceding
tabular information:

(1)

EBITDA
represents “Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization.”  EBITDA should not be considered a substitute for
net income.  EBITDA may not be comparable
to similarly titled measures employed by other companies.

(2)

Interest and
debt expense and depreciation and amortization included in the reconciliation
of net income to EBITDA reflects the Company’s share of the interest and debt
expense and depreciation and amortization of its partially-owned entities.

(3)

Operating
results for the year ended December 31, 2004, reflect the consolidation of the
Company’s investment in Americold Realty Trust beginning on November 18,
2004.  Previously, this investment was
accounted for on the equity method.  See
page 92 for condensed pro forma operating results of Americold Realty Trust for
the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, giving effect to the acquisition of
its tenant, Americold Logistics, as if it had occurred on January 1, 2003.

(4)

Other EBITDA
is comprised of:

(A)

EBITDA for the
year ended December 31, 2004, includes the Company’s $2,901 share of impairment
losses recorded by Newkirk MLP, partially offset by the Company’s $2,705 share of
gains on sale of real estate.  EBITDA for
the year ended December 31, 2003, includes the Company’s $9,900 share of gains
on sale of real estate and early extinguishment of debt, partially offset by a
charge of $1,210 for an impairment loss and a litigation settlement.  The remaining decrease in EBITDA from 2003 to
2004 is due primarily to the sale of properties (primarily Stater Brothers
Supermarkets).

(B)

Interest and
other income for the year ended December 31, 2004, includes a gain of $7,494,
resulting from the exercise of an option by the Company’s joint venture partner
to acquire certain MLP units held by the Company.  The MLP units subject to this option had been
issued to the Company on behalf of the Company’s joint venture partner in
exchange for the Company’s operating partnership units as part of the tender
offers to acquire certain of the units of the MLP in 1998 and 1999.

(C)

Includes
Alexander’s stock appreciation rights compensation expense, of which the
Company’s share was $25,340, $14,868 and $0 for the year ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  The
year ended December 31, 2004, also includes the Company’s $1,274 share of a
gain on sale of land parcel and the Company’s $1,010 share of Alexander’s loss
on early extinguishment of debt.

(D)

The Company’s
share of EBITDA for the period from November 3, 2004 to December 31, 2004, will
be recognized in the quarter ended March 31, 2005, as the investee has not
published its earnings for the year ended December 31, 2004 prior to the filing
of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K.

(E)

See page 74 for
details.


Results Of Operations - Years Ended December 31,
2004 and December 31, 2003

Revenues

The Company’s revenues, which consist of property
rentals, tenant expense reimbursements, Temperature Controlled Logistics
revenues, hotel revenues, trade shows revenues, amortization of acquired
below market leases net of above market leases pursuant to
SFAS No. 141 and 142, and fee income, were $1,707,262,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2004, compared to $1,497,983,000 in the prior year, an
increase of $209,279,000.  Below are the
details of the increase (decrease) by segment:

See notes on following page.

See Leasing Activity on page 58 for further details and corresponding
changes in occupancy.


Notes to preceding tabular information:

(1)

Average
occupancy and REVPAR were 78.9% and $77.56 for the year ended December 31, 2004
compared to 63.7% and $58.00 for the prior year.

(2)

Reflects
increases of $19,845 from New York City Office primarily from higher rents for
space relet.

(3)

Reflects
higher reimbursements from tenants resulting primarily from increases in New
York City Office real estate taxes and utilities.

(4)

Reflects
lower reimbursements from tenants resulting primarily from a decrease in
accrued real estate taxes based on the finalization of 2003 real estate taxes
in September of 2004.

(5)

The increase
relates to early lease terminations at the Company’s 888 Seventh Avenue and 909
Third Avenue office properties for approximately 175 square feet, a substantial
portion of which has been re-leased at equal or higher rents (see page 58).

(6)

Reflects an
increase of $4,541 from New York Office, which primarily relates to an increase
in Penn Plaza signage income.


Expenses

The Company’s expenses were $1,069,397,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2004, compared to $917,086,000 in the prior year, an
increase of $152,311,000.

Below are the details of the increase (decrease) by segment:

See notes on following page.


(1)

Results
primarily from (i) a $8,134 increase in real estate taxes, of which $6,700
relates to the New York Office portfolio, (ii) a $5,452 increase in utility
costs, of which $2,816 and $2,636 relate to the New York Office and CESCR portfolios,
respectively and (iii) a $1,192 increase due to higher of repairs and
maintenance (primarily New York Office).

(2)

Results
primarily from a net decrease in the allowance for bad debts due to recoveries
in 2004.

(3)

Results
primarily from (i) reversal of overaccrual of 2003 real estate taxes of $3,928,
based on finalization of 2003 taxes in September 2004, offset by (ii) increase
in the allowance for straight-lined rent receivables in 2004 of $3,585.

(4)

Primarily
due to additions to buildings and improvements during 2003 and 2004.

(5)

The increase
in general and administrative expenses results from:

(6)

Results from
the write-off of costs associated with the Mervyn’s Department Stores
acquisition not consummated.


Income Applicable
to Alexander’s

Income applicable to Alexander’s (loan interest
income, management, leasing, development and commitment fees, and equity in
income) was $33,920,000 before $25,340,000 of Alexander’s stock appreciation
rights compensation (“SAR”) expense or $8,580,000 net, in the year ended
December 31, 2004, compared to income of $30,442,000 before $14,868,000 of SAR
expense or $15,574,000 net, in the year ended December 31, 2003, a decrease
after SAR expense of $6,994,000.  This
decrease resulted primarily from (i) an increase in the Company’s share of
Alexander’s SAR expense of $10,472,000, (ii) the Company’s $1,434,000 share of
Alexander’s loss on early extinguishment of debt in 2004, partially offset by,
(iii) income in 2004 from the commencement of leases with Bloomberg on November
15, 2003 and other tenants in second half of 2004 at Alexander’s 731 Lexington
Avenue property and (iv) the Company’s $1,274 share of gain on sale of a land
parcel in the quarter ended September 30, 2004.

Income from
Partially-Owned Entities

Below are the condensed statements of operations of
the Company’s unconsolidated subsidiaries as well as the increase (decrease) in
income from these partially-owned entities for the years ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003:

See footnotes on following page.


Notes to preceding tabular information:

(1)

Includes
the Company’s $2,479 share of gains on sale of real estate and the Company’s
$2,901 share of impairment losses recorded by Newkirk MLP.  Excludes the Company’s $7,119 schare of the
gain recognized by Newkirk MLP on the sale of its Stater Brothers real estate
portfolio to the Company on July 29, 2004, which was reflected as an adjustment
to the basis of the Company’s investment.

(2)

On November 4, 2004, Americold

purchased its tenant, AmeriCold Logistics, for $47,700 in
cash.  In addition,

o

n November 18, 2004 the
Company and its 40% partner, CEI collectively

sold

20.7% of Americold’s common shares to Yucaipa for
$145,000, which resulted in a gain, of which the Company’s share was $18,789.

B

eginning on November
18, 2004

,

the Company

is deemed to exercise control
over Americold and, accordingly, began to

consolidate the operations and financial position of
Americold into its accounts and ceased account

ing

for the investment on
the equity method.

See
page 92 for further details.

(3)

Includes the Company’s $9,900 share of
gains on sale of real estate and early extinguishment of debt.

(4)

Includes a gain of $7,494, resulting from
the exercise of an option by the Company’s joint venture partner to acquire
certain MLP units held by the Company.

(5)

Equity in income for the year ended
December 31, 2004 includes the Company’s $3,833 share of an impairment
loss.  Equity in income for the year
ended December 31, 2003 includes the Company’s $2,271 share of income from the
settlement of a tenant bankruptcy claim, partially offset by the Company’s $876
share of a net loss on disposition of leasehold improvements.

(6)

Includes $5,583 for the Company’s share
of Prime Group Realty L.P.’s equity in net income of which $4,413 was for the
Company’s share of Prime Group’s lease termination fee income.  On May 23, 2003, the Company exchanged the
units it owned for common shares and no longer accounts for its investment in
the partnership on the equity method.


Interest and Other
Investment Income

Interest and other investment income (interest income
on mortgage loans receivable, other interest income and dividend income) was
$203,995,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to $25,397,000 in
the year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $178,598,000.  This increase results from:

(Amounts in thousands)

(1)

On
January 7, 2005, the Company was repaid $275,000 of loans secured by
partnership interests in the General Motors Building.  Vornado also received a prepayment penalty of
$4,500 together with interest through January 14, 2005 on $225,000 of these
loans.  The $4,500 and an additional $879
of unamortized fees will be included in income in the first quarter of 2005.

Interest and Debt
Expense

Interest and debt expense was $241,968,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2004, compared to $228,860,000 in the year ended
December 31, 2003, an increase of $13,108,000. 
This increase is primarily due to (i) $6,379,000 resulting from the
consolidation of the Company’s investment in Americold Realty Trust from
November 18, 2004 vs. equity method accounting prior, (ii) $7,411,000 from an
increase in average outstanding debt balances, primarily due to the issuance of
$250,000,000 and $200,000,000 of senior unsecured notes in August 2004 and November
2003, respectively, and (iii) $1,206,000 from an increase in the weighted
average interest rate on total debt of three basis points.

Net Gain on
Disposition of Wholly-owned and Partially-owned Assets other than Depreciable
Real Estate

The following table sets forth the details of net gain
on disposition of wholly-owned and partially-owned assets other than
depreciable real estate for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003:

Minority Interest

Minority interest was $157,308,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2004, compared to $178,937,000 for the prior year, a decrease of
$21,629,000.  The decrease is primarily
due to lower distributions and allocations to preferred unit holders as a
result of the Company’s redemptions of the Series D-2 preferred units in
January 2004 and Series C-1 and D-1 preferred units in the fourth quarter of
2003.


Discontinued
Operations

Assets related to discontinued operations consist
primarily of real estate, net of accumulated depreciation.  The following table set forth the balances of
the assets related to discontinued operations as of December 31, 2004 and 2003.

The following table sets forth the balances of the
liabilities related to discontinued operations (primarily mortgage notes
payable) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003.

The combined results of operations of the assets
related to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2004 and
2003 are as follows:

On January 9, 2003, the Company sold its Baltimore,
Maryland shopping center for $4,752,000, which resulted in a net gain after
closing costs of $2,644,000.

On October 10, 2003, the Company sold Two Park Avenue,
a 965,000 square foot office building, for $292,000,000, which resulted in a
net gain on the sale after closing costs of $156,433,000.

On November 3, 2003, the Company sold its Hagerstown,
Maryland shopping center for $3,100,000, which resulted in a net gain on sale
after closing costs of $1,945,000.

In anticipation of selling the Palisades Residential
Complex, on February 27, 2004, the Company acquired the remaining 25% interest
in the Palisades venture it did not previously own for approximately
$17,000,000 in cash.  On June 29, 2004,
the Company sold the Palisades for $222,500,000, which resulted in a net gain
on sale after closing costs of $65,905,000.

On August 12, 2004, the Company sold its Dundalk,
Maryland shopping center for $12,900,000, which resulted in a net gain on sale
after closing costs of $9,850,000.


EBITDA

Below are the details of the changes by segment in
EBITDA.

(1)

Represents operations
which were owned for the same period in each year and excludes non-recurring
income and expenses which are included in acquisitions, dispositions and
non-same store income and expenses above.

(2)

EBITDA and the same
store percentage increase were $343,421 and 4.4% for the New York office
portfolio and $304,200 and 1.7% for the CESCR portfolio.

(3)

EBITDA and the same
store percentage increase reflect the commencement of the WPP Group leases (228
square feet) in the third quarter of 2004 and the Chicago Sun Times lease (127
square feet) in the second quarter of 2004. 
EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2004, exclusive of the
incremental impact of these leases was $121,876 or a 5.6% same store increase
over the prior year.

(4)

Not comparable because
prior to November 4, 2004, (date the operations of AmeriCold Logistics were
combined with Americold Realty Trust), the Company reflected its equity in the
rent Americold received from AmeriCold Logistics.  Subsequent thereto, the Company reflects its
equity in the operations of the combined company.  See page 92 for condensed proforma operating
results of Americold for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, giving
effect to the acquisition of its tenant, AmeriCold Logistics, as if it had
occurred on January 1, 2003.


Results of Operations - Years Ended December 31,
2003 and December 31, 2002

Revenues

The Company’s revenues, which consist of property
rentals, tenant expense reimbursements, hotel revenues, trade shows
revenues, amortization of acquired below market leases net of above market
leases pursuant to SFAS No. 141 and 142, and fee income, were
$1,497,983,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $1,386,794,000
in the prior year, an increase of $111,189,000. 
Below are the details of the increase (decrease) by segment:

See notes on following page.

See Leasing Activity on page 58 for further details and
corresponding changes in occupancy.


Notes to preceding tabular information:

(1)

Average occupancy
and REVPAR for the Hotel Pennsylvania were 64% and $58 for the year ended
December 31, 2003 compared to 65% and $58 for the prior year.

(2)

Reflects an
increase of $2,841 resulting from the rescheduling of two trade shows from the
fourth quarter of 2002, in which they were previously held to the first quarter
of 2003, and $1,400 relates to a new show held for the first time in 2003,
partially offset by lower trade show revenue in 2003 primarily due to a smaller
April Market show as a result of a conversion of trade show space to permanent
space.

(3)

Reflects increases
of $12,953 from New York City Office leasing activity and $3,413 from CESCR’s
leasing activity.  These increases
resulted primarily from higher rents for space relet in 2003 and 2002 (full
year impact in 2003 as compared to a partial year in 2002) and an increase in
CESCR occupancy of .3% this year, partially offset by a decrease in NYC office
occupancy of .6%.  Initial rent for the
677 square feet of space relet in New York City was $44.41 per square foot in
2003, a 15.3% increase over prior escalated rent.  Initial rent for the 2,510 square feet of
space relet in CESCR portfolio was $30.62 per square foot a 2.5% increase over
prior escalated rents.  For further
details of NYC and CESCR office leasing activity see page 58.

(4)

Resulted primarily
from (i) an increase in the occupancy rate from 88.3% at December 31, 2002 to
93.0% at December 31, 2003 as a result of leasing space previously vacated by
Bradlees and Kmart and (ii) higher rents for space relet in 2003 and 2002 (full
year impact in 2003 as compared to a partial year in 2002).  Initial rent for the 1,046 square feet of
space relet in 2003 was $15.56 per square foot, a 13.2% increase over prior
rent.  For further details of Retail leasing
activity see page 58.

(5)

Reflects an
increase in occupancy of Merchandise Mart office space of 0.9% from 2002,
higher rents for 1,157 square feet of showroom space relet in 2003 and 911
square feet relet in 2002 (full year impact in 2003 as compared to partial year
impact in 2002), partially offset by a decrease in Merchandise Mart showroom
occupancy of .1% from 2002 and lower rents for 270 square feet of office space
relet in 2003.  Initial rents for the 1,157
square feet of showroom space relet in 2003 was $23.43, a 0.6% increase over
prior escalated rent.  Initial rents for
the 270 square feet of office space relet in 2003 was $21.24, a 5.3% decrease
over prior escalated rent.  For further
details of Merchandise Mart leasing activity see page 58.

(6)

Reflects higher
reimbursements from tenants resulting primarily from increases in real estate
taxes.  The increases in Office and
Retail were $19,383 and $3,247, before reductions of $2,215 and $1,407 in the
current quarter relating to the true-up of prior year’s billings.

(7)

Results primarily
from a $3,444 decrease in CESCR third party leasing revenue from $7,100 in 2002
to $3,656 in 2003 as a result of the closing of one of the CESCR leasing
offices.


Expenses

The Company’s expenses were $917,086,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2003, compared to $850,071,000 in the prior year, an
increase of $67,015,000.  Below are the
details of the increase (decrease) by segment:

See notes on following page.


Notes to preceding tabular information:

(1)

The increase in
Hotel Pennsylvania’s operating expenses was primarily due to a $1,700 increase
in real estate taxes and a $500 increase in utility costs over the prior year.

(2)

Results primarily
from the rescheduling of two trade shows from the fourth quarter of 2002, in
which they were previously held to the first quarter of 2003, and due to a new
trade show held for the first time in 2003.

(3)

Below are the
details of the increases (decreases) in operating expenses by segment:

(a) Relates primarily to an increase
in New York Office.

(4)

Increases in
depreciation and amortization for the Office and Merchandise Mart segments are
primarily due to additions to buildings and improvements.

(5)

The increase in
general and administrative expenses results from:

As part of the 2002 annual compensation review, in
lieu of stock options, on January 28, 2003 the Company granted 166,990
restricted shares at $34.50 per share (the then closing stock price on the
NYSE) to employees of the Company.  These
awards vest over a 5-year period.  Stock-based
compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting
period.  In the year ended December 31,
2003, the Company recognized stock-based compensation expense of $1,898,000
(excluding severance charges), of which $1,020,000 related to January 2003
restricted stock awards.


Income Applicable to Alexander’s

Income applicable to Alexander’s (interest income, management, leasing,
development and commitment fees, and equity in income) was $15,574,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $29,653,000 in the prior year, a
decrease of $14,079,000.  This decrease
resulted primarily from (i) Alexander’s stock appreciation rights compensation
expense of which the Company’s share was $14,868,000 in 2003 compared to zero
in 2002, partially offset by (ii) Alexander’s gain on the sale of its Third
Avenue property of which the Company’s share was $3,524,000 in 2002, and (iii)
income resulting from the commencement of the lease with Bloomberg (87% of the
space) on November 15, 2003 at Alexander’s 731 Lexington Avenue property of which
the Company’s share was $1,589,000.

Income from Partially-Owned Entities

Below are the condensed statements of operations of the Company’s
unconsolidated subsidiaries as well as the increase (decrease) in income from
these partially-owned entities for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002:

(Amounts in thousands)

See notes on
following page.


Notes to preceding tabular information:

(1)

The increase reflects the Company’s
share of the following items from the Newkirk MLP in 2003 including (i) $7,200
of net gains on the sale of 11 properties, (ii) a gain of $1,600 on the early
extinguishment of debt, partially offset by, (iii) a charge of $538 in
connection with a litigation claim, (iv) a charge of $353 for an asset
impairment and (v) $930 in Federal and state taxes.

(2)

The Company reflects its 60% share
of Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership’s (the “Landlord”) rental income it
receives from AmeriCold Logistics, its tenant, which leases the underlying
temperature controlled warehouses used in its business.  The Company’s joint venture does not
recognize rental income unless earned and collection is assured or cash is received.  The Company did not recognize $25,087 of rent
it was due for the year ended December 31, 2003, which together with previously
deferred rent was $49,436 at December 31, 2003. 
The following summarizes the increase in income for the year ended December
31, 2003 over the prior year:

(3)

The Company acquired a 50% interest
in the Monmouth Mall on October 10, 2002. 
Equity in net income of the Monmouth Mall includes the Company’s
preferred return of $3,290 and $748 for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002.

(4)

On September 23, 2002, the Company
acquired the remaining 50% of the Mall and 25% of the Kmart anchor store it did
not previously own.  Accordingly, the
operations of Las Catalinas are consolidated into the accounts of the Company
subsequent to September 23, 2002.


Interest and Other Investment Income

Interest and other investment income (interest income on mortgage loans
receivable, other interest income and dividend income) was $25,397,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $31,678,000 in the year ended
December 31, 2002, a decrease of $6,281,000. 
This decrease resulted primarily from (i) lower average investments
at lower yields, partially offset by (ii) $5,655,000 of contingent
interest income recognized in connection with the repayment of the Dearborn
Center loan and (iii) $5,028,000 of interest income recognized on the
$225,000,000 GM Building mezzanine loans, for the period from October 20, 2003
through December 31, 2003.

Interest and Debt Expense

Interest and debt expense was $228,860,000 for the year ended December
31, 2003, compared to $232,891,000 in the year ended December 31, 2002, a
decrease of $4,031,000.  This decrease
was primarily comprised of a $11,285,000 savings from a 77 basis point
reduction in weighted average interest rates of the Company’s variable rate
debt, partially offset by (i) the consolidation as of September 2002 of
the Las Catalinas operations which were previously included in income from
partially-owned entities, (ii) a full year of interest expense on the Company’s
$500,000,000 Senior Unsecured Notes due 2007 which were issued in June 2002 and
(iii) a reduction in interest capitalized in connection with development
projects.

Net (Loss) Gain on Disposition of Wholly-owned and
Partially-owned Assets other than Depreciable Real Estate

The following table sets forth the details of net (loss) gain on
disposition of wholly-owned and partially-owned assets other than depreciable
real estate for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002:

Primestone Foreclosure and
Impairment Losses

On September 28, 2000, the Company made a $62,000,000 loan to
Primestone Investment Partners, L.P. (“Primestone”).  The loan bore interest at 16% per annum.  Primestone defaulted on the repayment of this
loan on October 25, 2001. The loan was subordinate to $37,957,000 of other debt
of the borrower that liened the Company’s collateral. On October 31, 2001,
the Company purchased the other debt for its face amount.  The loans were secured by 7,944,893
partnership units in Prime Group Realty, L.P., the operating partnership of
Prime Group Realty Trust (NYSE:PGE) and the partnership units are exchangeable
for the same number of common shares of PGE. 
The loans were also guaranteed by affiliates of Primestone.

On November 19, 2001, the Company sold, pursuant to a participation
agreement with a subsidiary of Cadim inc., a Canadian pension fund, a 50%
participation in both loans at par for approximately $50,000,000 reducing the
Company’s net investment in the loans at December 31, 2001 to $56,768,000
including unpaid interest and fees of $6,790,000.  The participation did not meet the criteria
for “sale accounting” under SFAS 140 because Cadim was not free to pledge
or exchange the assets.


On April 30, 2002, the Company and Cadim acquired the 7,944,893
partnership units at a foreclosure auction.  
The price paid for the units by application of a portion of Primestone’s
indebtedness to the Company and Cadim was $8.35 per unit, the April 30, 2002
closing price of shares of PGE on the New York Stock Exchange.  On June 28, 2002, pursuant to the terms of
the participation agreement, the Company transferred 3,972,447 of the
partnership units to Cadim.

In the second quarter of 2002, in accordance with foreclosure
accounting, the Company recorded a loss on the Primestone foreclosure of
$17,671,000 calculated based on (i) the acquisition price of the units and
(ii) its valuation of the amounts realizable under the guarantees by
affiliates of Primestone, as compared with the net carrying amount of the
investment at April 30, 2002.   In the
third quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a $2,229,000 write-down on its
investment based on costs expended to realize the value of the guarantees.  Further, in the fourth quarter of 2002, the
Company recorded a $15,857,000 write-down of its investment in Prime Group
consisting of (i) $14,857,000 to adjust the carrying amount of the Prime Group
units to $4.61 per unit, the closing price of PGE shares on the New York Stock
Exchange at December 31, 2002 and (ii) $1,000,000 for estimated costs
to realize the value of the guarantees. 
The Company considered the decline in the value of the units which are
convertible into stock to be other than temporary as of December 31, 2002,
based on the fact that the market value of the stock had been less than its
cost for more than six months, the severity of the decline, market trends, the
financial condition and near-term prospects of Prime Group and other relevant
factors.

At December 31, 2002, the Company’s carrying amount of the investment
was $23,908,000, of which $18,313,000 represents the carrying amount of the
3,972,447 partnership units owned by the Company ($4.61 per unit),
$6,100,000 represents the amount expected to be realized under the guarantees,
partially offset by $1,005,000 representing the Company’s share of
Prime Group’s net loss through September 30, 2002, as the Company recorded
its share of Prime Group’s earnings on a one-quarter lag basis.

On June 11, 2003, the Company exercised its right to exchange the
3,972,447 units it owned in Prime Group Realty L.P. for 3,972,447 common shares
in Prime Group Realty Trust.  Prior to
the exchange, the Company accounted for its investment in the partnership on
the equity method.  Subsequent to the
exchange, the Company is accounting for its investment in PGE as a marketable
equity security-available for sale, as the Company’s shares represent less than
a 20% ownership interest in PGE (which is not a partnership), the Company does
not have significant influence and the common shares have a readily
determinable fair value.  Accordingly, the
carrying amount previously included in Investments and Advances to
Partially-Owned Entities was reclassified to Marketable Securities on the
Company’s consolidated balance sheet. 
The Company is also required to mark these securities to market based on
the closing price of the PGE shares on the NYSE at the end of each reporting
period.  For the period from June 11,
2003 through December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a $6,623,000 unrealized
gain, which is not included in the Company’s net income, but is reflected as a
component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss in the Shareholders’ Equity
section of the consolidated balance sheet. 
From the date of exchange, income recognition is limited to dividends
received on the PGE shares.

On June 13, 2003, the Company received its $5,000,000 share of a
settlement with affiliates of Primestone Investment Partners of the amounts due
under the guarantees of the Primestone loans. 
In connection therewith, the Company recognized a $1,388,000 loss on
settlement of the guarantees, which has been reflected as a component of “net
gains on disposition of wholly-owned and partially-owned assets” in the Company’s
2003 consolidated statement of income.

Gain on Transfer of Mortgages

In the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company
recorded a net gain of $2,096,000 resulting from payments to the Company by
third parties that assumed certain of the Company’s mortgages.  Under these transactions the Company paid to
the third parties that assumed the Company’s obligations the outstanding
amounts due under the mortgages and the third parties paid the Company for the
benefit of assuming the mortgages.  The
Company has been released by the creditors underlying these loans.

Net Gain on Sale of Air Rights

In 2002, the Company constructed a $16.3 million community
facility and low-income residential housing development (the “30th Street
Venture”), in order to receive 163,728 square feet of transferable
development rights, generally referred to as “air rights”.  The Company donated the building to a
charitable organization.  The Company
sold 106,796 square feet of these air rights to third parties at an
average price of $120 per square foot. 
An additional 28,821 square feet of air rights was sold to
Alexander’s at a price of $120 per square foot for use at Alexander’s 59th
Street development project (the “59th Street Project”).  In each case, the Company received cash in
exchange for air rights.  The Company
identified third party buyers for the remaining 28,111 square feet of air
rights of the 30th Street Venture. 
These third party buyers wanted to use the air rights


for the development of two projects located in the general area of
86th Street which was not within the required geographical radius of the
construction site nor in the same Community Board as the low-income housing and
community facility project.  The
30th Street Venture asked Alexander’s to sell 28,111 square feet of
the air rights it already owned to the third party buyers (who could use them)
and the 30th Street Venture would replace them with 28,111 square
feet of air rights.  In
October 2002, the Company sold 28,111 square feet of air rights to
Alexander’s for an aggregate sales price of $3,059,000 (an average of
$109 per square foot).   Alexander’s
then sold an equal amount of air rights to the third party buyers for an
aggregate sales price of $3,339,000 (an average of $119 per square foot).

Net

Gains on Sale of Residential Condominium Units

The Company recognized net gains of $282,000 and $2,156,000 during 2003
and 2002, from the sale of residential condominiums.

Minority Interest

Minority interest was $178,937,000 for the year ended December 31,
2003, compared to $140,933,000 for the prior year, an increase of $38,040,000.  The increase is primarily due to higher
income in 2003, primarily as a result of net gains on sale of real estate of
$161,789,000, and an increase in preferred unit distributions of $2,187,000,
representing the original issuance costs on the redemption of the Series D-1
preferred units.

Discontinued Operations

Assets related to discontinued operations consist primarily of real
estate, net of accumulated depreciation. 
The following table sets forth the balances of the assets related to
discontinued operations as of December 31, 2003 and 2002.

The following table sets forth the balances of the liabilities related
to discontinued operations (primarily mortgage notes payable) as of December
31, 2003 and 2002.

The combined results of operations of the assets related to
discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 are as
follows:


On January 9, 2003, the Company sold its Baltimore, Maryland shopping
center for $4,752,000, which resulted in a net gain after closing costs of
$2,644,000.

On October 10, 2003, the Company sold Two Park Avenue, a 965,000 square
foot office building, for $292,000,000, which resulted in a net gain on the
sale after closing costs of $156,433,000.

On November 3, 2003, the Company sold its Hagerstown, Maryland shopping
center for $3,100,000, which resulted in a net gain on sale after closing costs
of $1,945,000.

Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle

In September 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets

(effective January 1, 2002).  SFAS No. 142 specifies that goodwill and
some intangible assets will no longer be amortized but instead be subject to
periodic impairment testing.  In the
first quarter of 2002, the Company wrote-off goodwill of approximately $30,129,000
of which (i) $15,490,000 represents its share of the goodwill arising from
the Company’s investment in Temperature Controlled Logistics and
(ii) $14,639,000 represents goodwill arising from the Company’s
acquisition of the Hotel Pennsylvania. 
The write-off was reflected as a cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle in the 2002 consolidated statement income.

EBITDA

Below are the details of the changes by segment in EBITDA.

(1)

Represents
operations which were owned for the same period in each year and excludes
non-recurring income and expenses which are included in acquisitions,
dispositions and non-same store income and expenses above.

(2)

EBITDA
and the same store percentage increase (decrease) were $488,419 ($331,886
excluding gains on sale of real estate of $156,533) and 3.3% (excluding such
gains) for the New York office portfolio and $292,270 and (1.7%) for the CESCR
portfolio.  36% of the same store
decrease at CESCR reflects a reduction in third party net leasing fees.

(3)

The
Company reflects its 60% share of Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership’s (the “Landlord”)
rental income it receives from AmeriCold Logistics, its tenant, which leases
the underlying temperature controlled warehouses used in its business.  The Company’s joint venture does not
recognize rental income unless earned and collection is assured or cash is
received.  The Company did not recognize
$25,087 of rent it was due for the year ended December 31, 2003, which together
with previously deferred rent is $49,436. 
The tenant has advised the Landlord that (i) its revenue for the
year ended December 31, 2003 from the warehouses it leases from the Landlord,
is lower than last year by 1.3%, and (ii) its gross profit before rent at
these warehouses for the corresponding period is higher than last year by $607
(a 0.4% increase).  In addition, in 2003,
the tenant and the Landlord had lower general and administrative expenses and
the Landlord received $885 of EBITDA from its investment in the quarries it
acquired in December 2002 which was reflected in the gross profit of the tenant
in the prior year.


Supplemental Information

Three Months Ended December 31, 2004 and December 31,

Below is a summary of Net
Income and EBITDA(1) by segment for the three months ended December 31, 2004
and 2003.

See notes on page 89.


See notes on following page.


Notes to preceding tabular information:

(1)

EBITDA
represents “Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization.”  EBITDA should not be considered a substitute
for net income.  EBITDA may not be
comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies.

(2)

Interest
and debt expense and depreciation and amortization included in the
reconciliation of net income to EBITDA reflects amounts which are netted in
income from partially-owned entities.

(3)

Operating
results for the year ended December 31, 2004, reflect the consolidation of the
Company’s investment in Americold beginning on November 18, 2004.  Previously, this investment was accounted for
on the equity method.  See page 92 for
condensed proforma operating results of Americold for the three months ended
December 31, 2004 and 2003, giving effect to the acquisition of its tenant,
AmeriCold Logistics, as if it had occurred on January 1, 2003.

(4)

Other
EBITDA is comprised of:

(a)

The
three months ended December 31, 2004 includes (i) $81,730 of income from the
mark-to-market of the Sears’ option position, (ii) $29,452 of net gain on exercise
of GMH warrants for limited partnership units, (iii) $24,190 of income from the
mark-to-market of the remaining GMH warrants, (iv) $11,081 of interest income
on $159,000 GMH commitment, (v) $22,187 of interest income on the GM building mezzanine
loans and (vi) $4,771 of interest income on the repayment of the Company’s loan
to Vornado Operating.


In comparing the financial results of the Company’s segments on a
sequential quarterly basis, the following should be noted:

•

The third
quarter of the Office and Merchandise Mart segments have historically been
impacted by higher net utility costs than in each other quarter of the year;

•

The fourth
quarter of the Retail segment has historically been higher than each of the
first three quarters due to the recognition of percentage rental income; and

•

The second and
fourth quarter of the Merchandise Mart segment have historically been higher
than the first and third quarters due to major trade shows occurring in those
quarters.

Below are the details of the changes by segment in

EBITDA for the three months
ended December 31

, 2004 compared to the three months ended December 31,
2003.

(1)

Represents
operations, which were owned for the same period in each year.

(2)

EBITDA
and same store percentage increase (decrease) was $87,445 and 4.8% for the New
York City office portfolio and $71,726 and (1.2%) for the CESCR portfolio.

(3)

EBITDA
and the same store percentage increase reflect the commencement of leases with
WPP Group (228,000 square feet) in the third quarter of 2004 and the Chicago
Sun Times (127,000 square feet) in the second quarter of 2004.  EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2004,
exclusive of the incremental impact of these leases was $31,844, representing a
2.5% same store percentage increase.

(4)

Not
comparable because prior to November 4, 2004, (date the operations of AmeriCold
Logistics were combined with Americold), the Company reflected its equity in
the rent Americold received from AmeriCold Logistics.  Subsequent thereto, the Company reflects its
equity in the operations of the combined company.  See page 92 for condensed proforma operating
results of Americold for the three months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
giving effect to the acquisition of its tenant, AmeriCold Logistics, as if it
had occurred on January 1, 2003.


Below are the details of the changes by segment in
EBITDA for the three months ended December 31, 2004 compared to the

three months ended September 30

,
2004:

(1)

Represents
operations, which were owned for the same period in each year.

(2)

EBITDA
and same store percentage increase (decrease) was $ 87,282 and 4.7% for the
New York City office portfolio and $70,766 and (2.4%) for the CESCR
portfolio.

(3)

EBITDA
for the three months ended September 30, 2004 includes a gain on the sale of
the Company’s Dundalk Shopping Center of $9,850.

(4)

Primarily
due to seasonality of trade shows operations.

(5)

Not
comparable because prior to November 4, 2004, (date the operations of AmeriCold
Logistics were combined with Americold), the Company reflected its equity in
the rent Americold received from AmeriCold Logistics.  Subsequent thereto, the Company reflects its
equity in the operations of the combined company.  See page 92 for condensed proforma operating
results of Americold for the three months ended December 31, 2004 and 2003,
giving effect to the acquisition of its tenant, AmeriCold Logistics, as if it
had occurred on January 1, 2003.

Below is a reconciliation of net income and EBITDA for
the three months ended September 30, 2004.


Investment in
Americold Realty Trust

Prior to November 18, 2004, the Company owned a 60%
interest in Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership (“VCPP”) which owned
Americold Realty Trust (“Americold”). 
Americold owns 88 temperature controlled warehouses, all of which were
leased to AmeriCold Logistics.  On November
4, 2004, Americold purchased its tenant, AmeriCold Logistics, for $47,700,000
in cash.  On November 18, 2004, the
Company and its 40% partner, Crescent Real Estate Equities Company (“CEI”)
collectively sold 20.7% of Americold’s common shares to The Yucaipa Companies (“Yucaipa”)
for $145,000,000, which resulted in a gain, of which the Company’s share was
$18,789,000. The sale price was based on a $1.450 billion valuation for
Americold before debt and other obligations. 
Yucaipa is a private equity firm with significant expertise in the food
distribution, logistics and retail industries. 
Upon closing of the sale to Yucaipa on November 18, 2004, Americold is
owned 47.6% by the Company, 31.7% by CEI and 20.7% by Yucaipa. Pursuant to the
sales agreement: (i) Yucaipa may earn a promote of 20% of the increase in the
value of Americold through December 31, 2007, limited to 10% of the Company’s
and CEI’s remaining interest in Americold; (ii) the annual asset management fee
payable by CEI to the Company has been reduced from approximately $5,500,000 to
$4,548,000, payable quarterly through October 30, 2027.  CEI, at its option, may terminate the payment
of this fee at any time after November 2009, by paying the Company a
termination fee equal to the present value of the remaining payments through
October 30, 2007, discounted at 10%.  In
addition, CEI is obligated to pay a pro rata portion of the termination fee to
the extent it sells a portion of its equity interest in Americold; and (iii)
VCPP was dissolved.  The Company has the
right to appoint three of the five members to Americold’s Board of
Trustees.  Consequently, the Company is
deemed to exercise control over Americold and, on November 18, 2004, the
Company began to consolidate the operations and financial position of Americold
into its accounts and no longer accounts for its investment on the equity
method.

The following is a pro
forma presentation of the results of operations of

Americold for the three months
and years ended December 31

, 2004 and 2003, giving effect to the
acquisition of AmeriCold Logistics as if it had occurred on January 1, 2003.

Revenue was $701,707,000 for the year ended December
31, 2004, compared to $655,286,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003, an
increase of $46,421,000.  The increase in
revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 was primarily due to (i) $36,406,000
from Americold’s transportation management services business from both new and
existing customers, (ii) $6,692,000 from new managed warehouse contracts, net
of a contract termination in the fourth quarter of 2004 and (iii) an increase
in handling and accessorial services.


Gross margin from owned warehouses was $150,515,000 or
34.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to $159,909,000, or
36.9%, for the year ended December 31, 2003, a decrease of $9,394,000.  This decrease was primarily attributable to
(i) lower productivity related to new business at the Atlanta warehouses, (ii)
lower average occupancy at the Carthage warehouse and (iii) a change in revenue
mix as higher margin storage revenues declined and lower margin handling
revenues increased.

Gross margin from other operations (i.e.,
transportation, management services and managed warehouses) was $5,221,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to $13,093,000 for the year ended
for the year ended December 31, 2003, a decrease of $7,872,000.  This decrease was primarily the result of (i)
a $5,062,000 change in the estimate of unbilled transportation revenue, (ii)
lower margins in the transportation management services business due to
tightened truck supply in 2004 as a result of new legislation reducing the
hours that drivers are permitted to drive in a day, partially offset by (iii)
an increase in gross margin from new and existing managed warehouse customers.

Interest expense was $52,285,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2004, compared to $41,634,000 for the year ended December 31,
2003, an increase of $10,651,000.  The
increase was primarily due to higher average debt outstanding as Americold
obtained a mortgage financing on 28 of its unencumbered properties in February
2004.

General and administrative expense was $32,940,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to $35,355,000 for the prior year, a
decrease of $2,415,000.  This decrease
resulted primarily from a lower bonus provision.

Other expense, net, was $11,137,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2004, compared to other income, net, of $601,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2003, a decrease of $11,738,000.  This decrease resulted primarily from (i) $7,569,000
for the write-off of the remaining net book value of two vacant warehouse
facilities and assets related to a managed warehouse contract that was
terminated 2004, (ii) $2,241,000 of income in 2003 resulting from a tax refund,
and (iii) a gain of $850,000 in 2003 resulting from a sale of warehouse.


Related Party
Transactions

Loan and Compensation Agreements

In accordance with the terms of the employment arrangement with Steven
Roth, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and subject to a letter agreement
dated November 1999, Mr. Roth may draw up to $15,000,000 of loans on a
revolving basis.  Each loan bears
interest, payable quarterly, at the applicable Federal rate on the date the
loan is made and matures on the sixth anniversary of such loan.  Loans are collateralized by assets with a
value of not less than two times the amount outstanding.  At December 31, 2004, the outstanding balance
under this arrangement was $13,122,500 (of which $4,704,500 is shown as a
reduction in shareholders’ equity).  The
amount outstanding matures in January 2006 and bears interest at a weighted
average rate of 4.49% per annum.

At December 31, 2004, the balance of the loan due from Michael
Fascitelli, the Company’s President, in accordance with his employment
agreement was $8,600,000.  The loan
matures in December 2006 and bears interest, payable quarterly, at a
weighted average rate of 3.97% (based on the applicable Federal rate).

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company extended its employment
agreement with Mr. Fascitelli for a five-year period through December 31,
2006.  Pursuant to the extended
employment agreement, Mr. Fascitelli is entitled to receive a deferred payment
on December 31, 2006 of 626,566 Vornado common shares which are valued for
compensation purposes at $27,500,000 (the value of the shares on March 8, 2002,
the date the extended employment agreement was executed).  The shares are held in a rabbi trust for the
benefit of Mr. Fascitelli and vested 100% on December 31, 2002.  The extended employment agreement does not
permit diversification, allows settlement of the deferred compensation
obligation by delivery of these shares only, and permits the deferred delivery
of these shares.  The value of these shares
was amortized ratably over the one-year vesting period as compensation expense.

Pursuant to the Company’s annual compensation review in
February 2002 with Joseph Macnow, the Company’s Chief Financial
Officer, the Compensation Committee approved a $2,000,000 loan to
Mr. Macnow, bearing interest at the applicable federal rate of 4.65% per
annum and due in June 2007.  The loan was
funded on July 23, 2002 and is collateralized by assets with a value of
not less than two times the loan amount.

On March 11, 2004, the Company loaned $2,000,000
to Melvyn Blum, an executive officer of the Company, pursuant to the revolving
credit facility contained in his January 2000 employment agreement.  The loan bears interest at 1.57% per annum
(the Federal rate) and is due in March 2007.

On February 22, 2005, the Company and Sandeep Mathrani, Executive Vice
President – Retail Division, entered into a new employment agreement.  Pursuant to the agreement, the Company
granted Mr. Mathrani (i) 16,836 restricted shares of the Company’s stock, (ii)
stock options to acquire 300,000 of the Company’s common shares at an exercise
price of $71.275 per share and (iii) the right to receive 200,000 stock options
over the next two years at the then prevailing market price.  In addition, Mr. Mathrani repaid the $500,000
loan the Company provided him under his prior employment agreement.

Transactions
with Affiliates and Officers and Trustees of the Company

Alexander’s

The Company owns 33% of Alexander’s. 
Mr. Roth and Mr. Fascitelli are Officers and Directors of
Alexander’s, the Company provides various services to Alexander’s in accordance
with management, development and leasing agreements and the Company has made
loans to Alexander’s aggregating $124,000,000 at December 31, 2004.  These agreements and the loans are described
in Note 5 - Investments in Partially-Owned Entities to the Company’s
consolidated financial statements in this annual report on Form 10-K.  In addition, in 2002, the Company sold air
rights to Alexander’s, details of which are provided in Note 3 – Acquisitions
and Dispositions to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in this
annual report on Form 10-K.


Interstate Properties

As of December 31, 2004, Interstate Properties and its partners
beneficially owned approximately 10.8% of the common shares of beneficial
interest of the Company and 27.4% of Alexander’s common stock.  Interstate Properties is a general
partnership in which Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B.
Wight, Jr. are the partners. 
Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
of the Company, the managing general partner of Interstate Properties, and the
Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alexander’s.  Messrs. Mandelbaum and Wight are trustees of
the Company and also directors of Alexander’s.

The Company manages and leases the real estate assets of Interstate
Properties pursuant to a management agreement for which the Company receives an
annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent.  The management agreement has a term of one
year and is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties
on sixty days’ notice at the end of the term. The Company believes based upon
comparable fees charged by other real estate companies that its terms are fair
to the Company.  The Company earned
$726,000, $703,000 and $747,000 of management fees under the management
agreement for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.  In addition, during fiscal years 2003 and
2002, as a result of a previously existing leasing arrangement with Alexander’s,
Alexander’s paid to Interstate $587,000 and $703,000, respectively, for the
leasing and other services actually rendered by the Company.  Upon receipt of these payments, Interstate
promptly paid them over to the Company without retaining any interest
therein.  This arrangement was terminated
at the end of 2003 and all payments by Alexander’s thereafter for these leasing
and other services are made directly to the Company.

Vornado Operating Company
(“Vornado Operating”)

In October 1998, Vornado Operating was spun off from the Company in
order to own assets that the Company could not itself own and conduct
activities that the Company could not itself conduct.  Vornado Operating’s primary asset was its 60%
investment in AmeriCold Logistics, which leased 88 refrigerated warehouses from
Americold, owned 60% by the Company.  The
Company granted Vornado Operating a $75,000,000 unsecured revolving credit
facility that was to expire on December 31, 2004.  Borrowings under the revolving credit
facility bore interest at LIBOR plus 3%. 
The Company received a commitment fee equal to 1% per annum on the
average daily unused portion of the facility. 
At the time of its dissolution referred to below, Vornado Operating had
outstanding 4,068,924 shares and its operating partnership had outstanding
447,017 units.  At such time, trustees
and officers of the Company held approximately 24.3% of the common shares and
units of Vornado Operating.  In addition,
Messrs. Roth, Fascitelli, Macnow, Wight and West each served as an officer
and/or director of Vornado Operating.

On December 31, 2002, the Company and Crescent Real Estate Equities
formed a joint venture to acquire the Carthage, Missouri and Kansas City,
Kansas quarries from AmeriCold Logistics for $20,000,000 in cash (appraised
value).  The Company contributed cash of
$8,800,000 to the joint venture representing its 44% interest.  AmeriCold Logistics used the proceeds from
the sale to repay a portion of a loan to Vornado Operating.  Vornado Operating then repaid $9,500,000 of
the amount outstanding under the Company’s revolving credit facility.   In addition, during 2004 and 2003, this
joint venture acquired $21,930,000 and $5,720,000 of trade receivables from
AmeriCold Logistics for $21,500,000 and $5,606,000, respectively.  These receivables were subsequently collected
in full.

On November 4, 2004, Americold purchased its tenant, AmeriCold
Logistics, for $47,700,000 in cash.  As
part of this transaction, Vornado Operating repaid the $21,989,000 balance of
the loan to the Company as well as $4,771,000 of unpaid interest.  Because the Company fully reserved for the
interest income on this loan beginning in January 2002, it recognized
$4,771,000 of income upon collection in the fourth quarter 2004.

In November 2004, a class action shareholder derivative lawsuit was
brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery against Vornado Operating Company (“Vornado
Operating”), its directors and the Company. 
The lawsuit sought to enjoin the dissolution of Vornado Operating,
rescind the previously completed sale of AmeriCold Logistics (owned 60% by
Vornado Operating) to Americold Realty Trust (owned 60% by the Company) and
damages.  In addition, the plaintiffs
claimed that the Vornado Operating directors breached their fiduciary
duties.  On November 24, 2004, a
stipulation of settlement was entered into under which the Company agreed to
settle the lawsuit with a payment of approximately $4.5 million or about $1 per
Vornado Operating share or partnership unit before litigation expenses. The
proposed settlement payment would be in addition to the liquidation
distribution of $2 per Vornado Operating share or unit that Vornado Operating
made to its equity-holders when it dissolved on December 29, 2004.  On January 20, 2005, the Delaware Court of
Chancery postponed deciding upon the proposed settlement and requested further
but limited information before holding an additional hearing regarding the
settlement, which has been scheduled for March 2005.  The Company has accrued the proposed
settlement payment and related legal costs as part of “general and
administrative expense” in the fourth quarter of 2004.  The Company believes that the ultimate
outcome of this matter will not have a material effect on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.


Other

On January 1, 2003, the Company acquired BMS, a company which
provides cleaning and related services principally to the Company’s Manhattan office
properties, for $13,000,000 in cash from the estate of Bernard Mendik and
certain other individuals including David R. Greenbaum, an executive officer of
the Company.  The Company paid BMS
$53,024,000, for the year ended December 31, 2002 for services rendered to
the Company’s Manhattan office properties. 
Although the terms and conditions of the contracts pursuant to which
these services were provided were not negotiated at arms length, the Company
believes based upon comparable amounts charged to other real estate companies
that the terms and conditions of the contracts were fair to the Company.

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of 2101 L
Street, a 370,000 square foot office building located in Washington D.C.  The consideration for the acquisition
consisted of approximately 1.1 million newly issued Operating Partnership units
(valued at approximately $49,517,000) and the assumption of existing mortgage
debt and transaction costs totaling approximately $32,000,000.  Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod,
trustees of Vornado, together with family members owned approximately 24
percent of the limited partnership that sold the building and Mr. Smith was a
general partner.  On August 5, 2003,
the Company repaid the mortgage of $29,056,000.

On October 7, 2003,
the Company acquired a 2.5% interest in the planned redevelopment of
Waterfront, located at 401 M Street, a mixed-use project in Washington D.C. for
$2,171,000, of which the Company paid $1,545,000 in cash and issued 12,500 Vornado Realty
L.P. partnership units valued at $626,000. 
The partnership units were issued to Mitchell N. Schear, one of the
partners in the Waterfront interest, and the President of the Company’s CESCR
division.

On July 1, 2004, the
Company acquired the Marriott hotel located in its Crystal City office complex
from a limited partnership in which Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod,
trustees of the Company, together with family members own approximately 67
percent.  The purchase price of
$21,500,000 was paid in cash.  The hotel
contains 343 rooms and is leased to an affiliate of Marriott International,
Inc. until July 31, 2015, with one 10-year extension option.  The land under the hotel was acquired in
1999.

On October 1, 2004, the
Company increased its ownership interest in the Investment Building in
Washington, D.C. to 5% by acquiring an additional 2.8% interest for $2,240,000
in cash.  The Company’s original interest
in the property was acquired in connection with the acquisition of the Kaempfer
Company in April 2003.  Mitchell N.
Schear, President of the Company’s CESCR division and other former members of
Kaempfer management were also partners in the Investment Building partnership.

During 2002, the Company paid approximately $147,000 for legal services
to a firm in which one of the Company’s trustees is a member.


Liquidity and
Capital Resources

The
Company anticipates that cash from continuing operations over the next twelve
months will be adequate to fund its business operations, dividends to
shareholders and distributions to unitholders of the Operating Partnership and
recurring capital expenditures, and together with existing cash balances will
be greater than its anticipated cash requirements including development and
redevelopment expenditures and debt amortization.  Capital requirements for significant
acquisitions may require funding from borrowings or equity offerings.

As at December 31, 2004, the Company has an effective shelf
registration under which the Company can offer an aggregate of approximately
$397,990,000 of equity securities and Vornado Realty L.P. can offer an
aggregate of $1,550,770,000 of debt securities. 
On January 26, 2005, the Company filed a registration statement to
increase the amount of equity and debt securities that can be offered to up to
$2.5 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively. 
On February 3, 2005, the registration statement was declared effective.

Certain Future
Cash Requirements

For 2005 the Company has budgeted approximately $180,000,000 for
capital expenditures excluding acquisitions as follows:

(1)

Hotel
Pennsylvania, Paramus Office and Warehouses.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, actual cash basis capital
expenditures and leasing commissions were $186,850,000, as compared to a budget
of $194,200,000.

In addition to the capital expenditures reflected above, the Company is
currently engaged in certain development and redevelopment projects for which
it has budgeted approximately $470,000,000. 
Of this amount $310,000,000 is estimated to be expended in 2005.

The table above excludes Americold’s 2005 budget of $23,000,000 for
capital expenditures as Americold is expected to fund these expenditures
without contributions from the Company. 
In addition, no cash requirements have been budgeted for the capital
expenditures of Alexander’s, Newkirk MLP, or any other entity that is partially
owned by the Company.  These investees are
also expected to fund their own cash requirements.


Financing
Activities and Contractual Obligations

Below is a schedule of the Company’s contractual obligations and
commitments at December 31, 2004.

At December 31, 2004, the Company has $567,851,000 available under its
$600,000,000 revolving credit facility (

$32,149,000

was utilized for letters of credit), which matures in
July 2006.  Further, the Company has a
number of properties that are unencumbered.

The Company’s credit facility contains customary conditions precedent
to borrowing such as the bring down of customary representations and warranties
as well as compliance with financial covenants such as minimum interest
coverage and maximum debt to market capitalization.  The facility provides for higher interest
rates in the event of a decline in the Company’s ratings below Baa3/BBB.  This facility also contains customary events
of default that could give rise to acceleration and include such items as
failure to pay interest or principal and breaches of financial covenants such
as maintenance of minimum capitalization and minimum interest coverage.

The Company carries comprehensive liability and all risk property
insurance ((i) fire, (ii) flood, (iii) extended coverage, (iv) “acts of
terrorism” as defined in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 which expires
in 2005 and (v) rental loss insurance) with respect to its assets.  In April 2004, the Company reviewed its all
risk policies and increased its coverage for Acts of Terrorism for each of its
New York Office, CESCR Office, Retail and Merchandise Mart divisions.  Below is a summary of the all risk property insurance
and terrorism risk insurance for each of the Company’s business segments:

(1)

Limited as to terrorism insurance by the
sub-limit shown in the adjacent column.

In addition to the coverage above, the Company carries lesser amounts
of coverage for terrorist acts not covered by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act
of 2002.

The Company’s debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by
its properties (which are generally non-recourse to the Company), its senior
unsecured notes due 2007, 2009 and 2010 and its revolving credit agreement,
contain customary covenants requiring the Company to maintain insurance.
Although the Company believes that it has adequate insurance coverage under
these agreements, the Company may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of
coverage at reasonable costs in the future. 
Further if lenders insist on greater coverage than the Company is able
to obtain, or if the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 is not extended; it
could adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance and/or refinance its
properties and expand its portfolio.

In conjunction with the closing of Alexander’s Lexington Avenue
construction loan on July 3, 2002, the Company agreed to guarantee to the
construction lender, the lien free, timely completion of the construction of
the project and funding of all project costs in excess of a stated budget, as
defined in the loan agreement, if not funded by Alexander’s.


Cash
Flows for the Year Ended December 31, 2004

Cash and cash equivalents were $599,282,000 at December 31, 2004,
as compared to $320,542,000 at December 31, 2003, an increase of
$278,740,000.

Cash flows provided by operating activities of $664,693,000 was
primarily comprised of (i) net income of $592,917,000, (ii) adjustments
for non-cash items of $53,699,000, and (iii) a net change in operating
assets and liabilities of $18,077,000. 
The adjustments for non-cash items were primarily comprised of
(i) depreciation and amortization of $253,822,000 (ii) minority
interest of $156,608,000, partially offset by (iii) net gains on mark-to-market
of derivatives of $135,372,000 (Sears option shares and GMH warrants), (iv) net
gains on sale of real estate of $75,755,000, (v) net gains on dispositions of
wholly-owned and partially-owned assets other than real estate of $19,775,000,
(vi) the effect of straight-lining of rental income of $61,473,000,
(vii) equity in net income of partially-owned entities and income
applicable to Alexander’s of $51,961,000, and (viii) amortization of below
market leases, net of $14,570,000.

Net cash used in investing activities of $350,729,000 was primarily
comprised of (i) capital expenditures of $117,942,000, (ii) development
and redevelopment expenditures of $139,669,000, (iii) investment in notes
and mortgages receivable of $330,101,000, (iv) investments in
partially-owned entities of $158,467,000, (v) acquisitions of real estate and
other of $286,310,000, (vi) purchases of marketable securities of $59,714,000
partially offset by, (vii) proceeds from the sale of real estate of
$233,005,000 (viii) distributions from partially-owned entities of
$303,745,000, (ix) repayments on notes receivable of $174,276,000,
(x) cash received upon consolidation of Americold Realty Trust of
$21,694,000 and (xi) cash restricted primarily for mortgage escrows of
$8,754,000.

Net cash used in financing activities of $35,224,000 was primarily
comprised of (i) dividends paid on common shares of $379,488,000,
(ii) dividends paid on preferred shares of $21,920,000,
(iii) distributions to minority partners of $131,142,000, (iv) repayments
of borrowings of $702,823,000, (v) redemption of perpetual preferred
shares and units of $112,467,000, partially offset by, proceeds from (vi)
borrowings of $745,255,000, (vii) proceeds from the issuance of preferred
shares and units of $510,739,000 and (viii) the exercise of employee share
options of $61,935,000.

Below are the details of capital expenditures, leasing commissions and
development and redevelopment expenditures and a reconciliation of total
expenditures on an accrual basis to the cash expended in the year ended
December 31, 2004.  See page 58 for per
square foot data.


Capital expenditures are categorized as follows:

Recurring
— capital improvements expended to maintain a property’s competitive position
within the market and tenant improvements and leasing commissions for costs to
re-lease expiring leases or renew or extend existing leases.

Non-recurring
— capital improvements completed in the year of acquisition and the following
two years which were planned at the time of acquisition and tenant
improvements and leasing commissions for space which was vacant at the time of
acquisition of a property.

Development and redevelopment expenditures include all hard and soft
costs associated with the development or redevelopment of a property, including
tenant improvements, leasing commissions and capitalized interest and operating
costs until the property is substantially complete and ready for its intended
use.

Cash
Flows for the Year Ended

December 31, 2003

Cash and cash equivalents were $320,542,000 at December 31, 2003,
as compared to $208,200,000 at December 31, 2002, an increase of
$112,342,000.

Cash flow provided by operating activities of $528,951,000 was
primarily comprised of (i) net income of $460,703,000, (ii) adjustments
for non-cash items of $99,985,000, partially offset by (iii) the net
change in operating assets and liabilities of $31,737,000.  The adjustments for non-cash items were
primarily comprised of (i) depreciation and amortization of $219,911,000,
(ii) minority interest of $178,675,000, partially offset by,
(iii) gains on sale of real estate of $161,789,000, (iv) the effect of
straight-lining of rental income of $41,947,000, (v) equity in net income
of partially-owned entities and Alexander’s of $83,475,000 and
(vi) amortization of below market leases, net of $9,047,000.

Net cash used in investing activities of $130,292,000 was comprised of
(i) investment in notes and mortgages receivable of $230,375,000, (ii)
acquisitions of real estate of $216,361,000, (iii) development and
redevelopment expenditures of $123,436,000, (iv) capital expenditures of
$120,593,000, (v) investments in partially-owned entities of $15,331,000,
(vi) purchases of marketable securities of $17,356,000, partially offset by,
(vii) proceeds received from the sale of real estate of $299,852,000,
(viii) distributions from partially-owned entities of $154,643,000,
(ix) restricted cash, primarily mortgage escrows of $101,292,000,
(x) repayments on notes receivable of $29,421,000 and (xi) proceeds
from the sale of marketable securities of $7,952,000.

Net cash used in financing activities of $286,317,000 was primarily
comprised of (i) repayments of borrowings of $752,422,000, (ii) dividends
paid on common shares of $327,877,000, (iii) distributions to minority
partners of $158,066,000, (iv) redemption of perpetual preferred shares and
units of $103,243,000, (v) dividends paid on preferred shares of $20,815,000,
partially offset by (vi) proceeds from borrowings of $812,487,000,
(vi) proceeds from the issuance of preferred shares and units of
$119,967,000, and (viii) proceeds from the exercise of employee share
options of $145,152,000.


Below are the details of capital expenditures, leasing
commissions and development and redevelopment expenditures for the year ended
December 31, 2003.

(1)

Includes
reimbursements from tenants for expenditures incurred in the prior year.


Cash Flows for the Year Ended December 31, 2002

Cash flow provided by operating activities of
$499,825,000 was primarily comprised of (i) net income of $232,903,000,
(ii) adjustments for non-cash items of $266,922,000, partially offset by,
(iii) the net change in operating assets and liabilities of
$36,947,000.  The adjustments for
non-cash items were primarily comprised of (i) depreciation and
amortization of $205,826,000, (ii) minority interest of $140,933,000, (iii) net
loss on dispositions of wholly-owned and partially-owned assets other than
depreciable real estate of $17,471,000, (iv) a cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle of $30,129,000, (v) amortization of officer’s deferred
compensation of $27,500,000, (vi) costs of acquisitions not consummated of $6,874,000,
partially offset by (vii) the effect of straight-lining of rental income of
$38,119,000, and (vii) equity in net income of partially-owned entities
and Alexander’s of $74,111,000, (viii) amortization of below market leases, net
of $12,634,000.

Net cash used in investing activities of $24,117,000
was primarily comprised of (i) capital expenditures of $96,018,000, (ii)
development and redevelopment expenditures of $91,199,000,
(iii) investment in notes and mortgages receivable of $56,935,000, (v) investments
in partially-owned entities of $73,242,000, (vi) acquisitions of real
estate of $23,665,000, (v) restricted cash, primarily mortgage escrows of
$21,471,00, partially offset by, (vii) proceeds from the repayment of
notes and mortgage loans receivable of $124,500,000, (viii) distributions from
partially-owned entities of $126,077,000, and (ix) proceeds from sales of
marketable securities of $87,836,000.

Net cash used in financing activities of $533,092,000
was primarily comprised of (i) repayments on borrowings of $731,238,000,
(ii) dividends paid on common shares of $314,419,000, (iii) distributions
to minority partners of $146,358,000, (iv) redemptions of perpetual preferred
shares and units of $25,000,000, (v) dividends paid on preferred shares of
$23,167,000, partially offset by, (vi) proceeds from borrowings of
$628,335,000, (vii) proceeds from the issuance of common shares of $56,453,000
and (viii) proceeds from employee share option exercises of $26,272,000.

Below are the details of 2002 capital expenditures,
leasing commissions and development and redevelopment expenditures.


Funds

From

Operations
(“FFO”)

FFO is computed in accordance with the definition
adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”).  NAREIT
defines FFO as net income or loss determined in accordance with Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), excluding extraordinary items as
defined under GAAP and gains or losses from sales of previously depreciated
operating real estate assets, plus specified non-cash items, such as real
estate asset depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for
unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. 
FFO and FFO per diluted share are used by management, investors and
industry analysts as supplemental measures of operating performance of equity
REITs.  FFO and FFO per diluted share
should be evaluated along with GAAP net income and income per diluted share
(the most directly comparable GAAP measures), as well as cash flow from
operating activities, investing activities and financing activities, in
evaluating the operating performance of equity REITs.  Management believes that FFO and FFO per
diluted share are helpful to investors as supplemental performance measures
because these measures exclude the effect of depreciation, amortization and
gains or losses from sales of real estate, all of which are based on historical
costs which implicitly assumes that the value of real estate diminishes
predictably over time.  Since real estate
values instead have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, these
non-GAAP measures can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between
periods and among other equity REITs. 
FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in
accordance with GAAP and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to
fund cash needs as disclosed in the Company’s Statements of Cash Flows.  FFO should not be considered as an
alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company’s operating
performance or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.   The calculations of both the numerator and
denominator used in the computation of income per share are disclosed in Note
16 - Income per Share, in the Company’s notes to consolidated financial
statements on page 153 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

FFO applicable to common shares plus assumed
conversions was $750,043,000, or $5.63 per diluted share for the year ended
December 31, 2004, compared to $518,242,000, or $4.44 per diluted share for the
year ended December 31, 2003, an increase of $231,801,000 or $1.19 per
share.  FFO applicable to common shares
plus assumed conversions was $299,441,000 or $2.22 per diluted share for the
three months ended December 31, 2004, compared to $130,729,000, or $1.08 per
diluted share for the three months ended December 31, 2003, an increase of
$168,712,000 or $1.14 per share.


Included in FFO are certain items that affect
comparability as detailed below.  Before
these items, the year ended December 31, 2004 is 5.3% higher than the prior
year on a per share basis and the three months ended December 31, 2004 is 8.8%
higher than the prior year’s quarter on a per share basis.


ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company has exposure to fluctuations in market
interest rates.  Market interest rates
are highly sensitive to many factors, beyond the control of the Company.  Various financial vehicles exist which would
allow management to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on the
Company’s cash flows and earnings.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company has an
interest rate swap as described in footnote 1 to the table below.  In addition, during 2003 the Company
purchased two interest rate caps with notional amounts aggregating
$295,000,000, and simultaneously sold two interest rate caps with the same
aggregate notional amount on substantially the same terms as the caps
purchased.  As the significant terms of
these arrangements are the same, the effects of a revaluation of these
instruments are expected to substantially offset one another.  Management may engage in additional hedging
strategies in the future, depending on management’s analysis of the interest
rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies.

The Company’s exposure to a change in interest rates
on its consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of
non-trading activity) is as follows:

(1)

Includes
$512,791 and $525,279, respectively, for the Company’s senior unsecured notes
due 2007, as the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements that
effectively converted the interest rate from a fixed rate of 5.625% to a
floating rate of LIBOR plus .7725%, based upon the trailing 3 month LIBOR
rate (2.57% at December 31, 2004).  In
accordance with SFAS No. 133: Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, as amended, accounting for these swaps requires the Company to fair
value the debt at each reporting period. 
At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the fair value adjustment was $13,148 and
$25,780, and is included in the balance of the senior unsecured notes above.

The fair value of the Company’s debt, based on
discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made
to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt,
exceeds the aggregate carrying amount by approximately $256,518,000 at December 31,
2004.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company has mezzanine
loans receivable of $440,186,000.  The
Company receives interest on these loans based on a floating rate (a fixed
spread plus 30, 60 or 90 day LIBOR).  The
Company believes that a portion of its exposure to a change in interest rates
on its floating rate debt, as illustrated above, is mitigated by the
outstanding balances of these loans receivable.


Derivative
Instruments

As of December 31, 2004, the Company has the following derivative
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment:

The Company has an economic interest in 7,916,900 Sears common shares through a series of privately negotiated
transactions with a financial institution pursuant to which the Company
purchased a call option and simultaneously sold a put option at the same strike
price on Sears common shares.  These call
and put options have an initial weighted-average strike price of  $39.82 per share,
or an aggregate of $315,250,000, expire in April 2006 and provide for net cash
settlement.  Under these agreements, the
strike price for each pair of options increases at an annual rate of LIBOR plus
45 basis points and is credited for the dividends received on the shares.  The options provide the Company with the same
economic gain or loss as if it had purchased the underlying common shares and
borrowed the aggregate strike price at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis
points.  Because these options are
derivatives and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the gains or
losses resulting from the mark-to-market of the options at the end of each
reporting period are recognized as an increase or decrease in “interest and
other investment income” on the Company’s consolidated statement of
income.  During the year ended December
31, 2004, the Company recorded net income of $81,730,000, comprised of (i)
$88,782,000 from the mark-to-market of the options on December 31, 2004, based
on Sears’ closing stock price of $51.03 per share and (ii) $2,295,000 for
accrued dividends, partially offset by (i) $5,972,000 for a performance-based
participation, (ii) $2,371,000 for the increase in strike price resulting from
the LIBOR charge and (iii) $1,004,000 of professional fees.

Under a warrant agreement with GMH Communities L.P.,
the Company’s holds 5.6 million warrants to purchase partnership units of GMH
at an adjusted exercise price of $8.99 per share.  Because these warrants are derivatives and do
not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the gains or losses resulting from
the mark-to-market of the warrants at the end of each reporting period are
recognized as an increase or decrease in “interest and other investment income”
on the Company’s consolidated statement of income.  In the quarter ended December 31, 2004, the
Company recognized income of $24,190,000 from the mark-to-market of these
warrants based on GCT’s closing stock price on the NYSE of $14.10 per share on
December 31, 2004.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Shareholders and Board of Trustees

Vornado Realty Trust

New York, New York

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Vornado
Realty Trust (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004.  Our audits also included the financial
statement schedules included in Item 15. 
These financial statements and financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements
and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. 
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Vornado Realty Trust at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America.  Also, in our opinion, such
financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, on
January 1, 2002, the Company applied the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142,

“Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.”

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on the criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2005 expressed an
unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion
on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 24, 2005


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See notes to consolidated
financial statements.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

See notes to consolidated
financial statements.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

See notes to consolidated
financial statements.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY - continued

See notes to consolidated
financial statements.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

See notes to consolidated
financial statements.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS - continued

See
notes to consolidated financial statements

.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.

Organization
and Business

Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated real estate
investment trust (“REIT”) and conducts its business through Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the “Operating Partnership”).  All references to the “Company” and “Vornado”
refer to Vornado Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the
Operating Partnership.  Vornado is the
sole general partner of, and owned approximately 87% of the common limited
partnership interest in, the Operating Partnership at December 31, 2004.

The Company currently owns directly or indirectly:

Office Properties (“Office”

):

(i)

all
or portions of 86 office properties aggregating approximately 27.6 million
square feet in the New York City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) and in
the Washington D.C. and Northern Virginia area;

Retail Properties (“Retail”)

:

(ii)

retail properties in seven states and Puerto Rico aggregating approximately
14.2 million square feet, including 2.8 million square feet built by tenants on
land leased from the Company;

Merchandise Mart
Properties

:

(iii)

8.6
million square feet of showroom and office space, including the
3.4 million square foot Merchandise Mart in Chicago;

Temperature Controlled
Logistics

:

(iv)

a 47.6% interest in Americold Realty Trust which owns and
operates 88 cold storage warehouses nationwide;

Other Real Estate
Investments

:

(v)

33%
of the outstanding common stock of Alexander’s, Inc. (“Alexander’s”) which has
six properties in the greater New York metropolitan area;

(vi)

the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York City consisting of a
hotel portion containing 1.0 million square feet with 1,700 rooms and a
commercial portion containing 0.4 million square feet of retail and office
space;

(vii)

a
22.4% interest in The Newkirk Master Limited Partnership (“Newkirk MLP”) which
owns office, retail and industrial properties net leased primarily to credit
rated tenants, and various debt interests in such properties;

(viii)

seven dry warehouse/industrial properties in New Jersey
containing approximately 1.7 million square feet;

(ix)

mezzanine loans to real estate related companies; and

(x)

interests in other real estate including a 12.25% interest
in GMH Communities L.P. (which owns and manages student and military housing
properties throughout the United States), other investments and marketable
securities.


2.

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation:

The accompanying
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Vornado Realty Trust
and its majority-owned subsidiary, Vornado Realty L.P.  All significant intercompany amounts have
been eliminated.  The Company accounts
for its unconsolidated partially-owned entities on the equity method of
accounting.  See below for further
details of the Company’s accounting policies regarding partially-owned
entities.

The Company’s consolidated financial statements are
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.

Reclassifications:

Certain prior year balances have been
reclassified in order to conform to current year presentation.  The Company has also adjusted certain prior
year balances to separately present common shares issued to officer’s trust.

Real Estate:

Real estate is carried at
cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization.  Betterments, major renewals and certain costs
directly related to the acquisition, improvement and leasing of real estate are
capitalized.  Maintenance and repairs are
charged to operations as incurred.  For
redevelopment of existing operating properties, the net book value of the
existing property under redevelopment plus the cost for the construction and
improvements incurred in connection with the redevelopment are capitalized to
the extent the capitalized costs of the property do not exceed the estimated
fair value of the redeveloped property when complete.  If the cost of the redeveloped property, including
the undepreciated net book value of the property carried forward, exceeds the
estimated fair value of redeveloped property, the excess is charged to
expense.  Depreciation is provided on a
straight-line basis over the assets’ estimated useful lives which range from 7
to 40 years.  Tenant allowances are
amortized on a straight-line basis over the lives of the related leases, which approximates the useful lives of the assets.  Additions to real estate include interest
expense capitalized during construction of $8,718,000 and $5,407,000, for the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Upon acquisitions of real estate, the Company assesses
the fair value of acquired assets (including land, buildings and improvements,
and identified intangibles such as above and below market leases and acquired
in-place leases and customer relationships) and acquired liabilities in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141:
Business Combinations and SFAS No. 142: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,
and allocates purchase price based on these assessments.  The Company assesses fair value based on
estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate discount and
capitalization rates and available market information.  Estimates of future cash flows are based on a
number of factors including the historical operating results, known trends, and
market/economic conditions that may affect the property.  The Company’s properties, including any
related intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment if events or
circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of the assets may not
be recoverable.

Partially-Owned
Entities:

The Company considers APB 18: The Equity
Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, SOP 78-9: Accounting for
Investments in Real Estate Ventures, Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) 96-16:
Investors Accounting for an Investee When the Investor has the Majority of the
Voting Interest but the Minority Partners have Certain Approval or Veto Rights
and FASB Interpretation No. 46 (Revised 2003): Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities – An Interpretation of ARB No. 51 (“FIN 46R”), to determine
the method of accounting for each of its partially-owned entities.  In determining whether the Company has a
controlling interest in a partially-owned entity and the requirement to
consolidate the accounts of that entity, it considers factors such as ownership
interest, board representation, management representation, authority to make
decisions, and contractual and substantive participating rights of the
partners/members as well as whether the entity is a variable interest entity in
which it will absorb the majority of the entity’s expected losses, if they
occur, or receive the majority of the expected residual returns, if they occur,
or both.  The Company has concluded that
it does not control a partially-owned entity, despite an ownership interest of
50% or greater, if the entity is not considered a variable interest entity and
the approval of all of the partners/members is contractually required with
respect to major decisions, such as operating and capital budgets, the sale,
exchange or other disposition of real property, the hiring of a chief executive
officer, the commencement, compromise or settlement of any lawsuit, legal
proceeding or arbitration or the placement of new or additional financing
secured by assets of the venture.  This
is the case with respect to the Company’s 80% interest in Starwood Ceruzzi
Venture, and 50% interests in Monmouth Mall, MartParc Wells, MartParc Orleans,
and 825 Seventh Avenue.


2.

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies - continued

Identified Intangible Assets and Goodwill:

Upon an acquisition of a business the Company records intangible assets
acquired at their estimated fair value separate and apart from goodwill.  The
Company amortizes identified intangible assets that are determined to have
finite lives which are based on the period over which the assets are expected
to contribute directly or indirectly to the future cash flows of the business
acquired.  Intangible assets subject to
amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable.  An impairment loss is recognized if the
carrying amount of an intangible asset is not recoverable and its carrying
amount exceeds its estimated fair value.

The excess of the cost of
an acquired entity over the net of the amounts assigned to assets acquired
(including identified intangible assets) and liabilities assumed is recorded as
goodwill.  Goodwill is not amortized but
is tested for impairment at a level of reporting referred to as a reporting unit
on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the asset might be impaired. 
An impairment loss for an asset group is allocated to the long-lived
assets of the group on a pro-rata basis using the relative carrying amounts of
those assets, unless the fair value of specific components of the reporting
group are determinable without undue cost and effort.

As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the carrying amounts
of the Company’s identified intangible assets are $176,314,000 and $130,875,000
and the carrying amounts of goodwill are $10,425,000 and $4,345,000,
respectively.  Such amounts are included
in “other assets” on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.  In addition, the Company has $71,272,000 and
$47,359,000 of identified intangible liabilities as of December 31, 2004 and
2003, which are included in “deferred credit” on the Company’s consolidated
balance sheets.

Upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002, the
Company tested the goodwill related to the Hotel Pennsylvania acquisition and
the Temperature Controlled Logistics business for impairment.  As the carrying amounts of the respective
goodwill exceeded the fair values, the Company wrote-off all of the goodwill as
an impairment loss totaling $30,129,000 and has reflected the write-off as a
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle on the Company’s
consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2002.

Cash and Cash Equivalents:

Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly
liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include cash escrowed under loan agreements
and cash restricted in connection with an officer’s deferred compensation
payable.

Allowance for Doubtful
Accounts:

The Company periodically evaluates the
collectibility of amounts due from tenants and maintains an allowance for
doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of tenants
to make required payments under the lease agreements.  The Company also maintains an allowance for
receivables arising from the straight-lining of rents.  This receivable arises from earnings
recognized in excess of amounts currently due under the lease agreements.  Management exercises judgment in establishing
these allowances and considers payment history and current credit status in
developing these estimates.

Marketable Securities:

The Company has classified debt and equity
securities which it intends to hold for an indefinite period of time as
securities available-for-sale; equity securities it intends to buy and sell on
a short term basis as trading securities; and mandatory redeemable preferred
stock investments as securities held to maturity.  Unrealized gains and losses on trading
securities are included in earnings. 
Unrealized gains and losses on securities available-for-sale are
included as a component of shareholders’ equity and other comprehensive
income.  Realized gains or losses on the
sale of securities are recorded based on specific identification.  A portion of the Company’s preferred stock
investments are accounted for in accordance with EITF 99-20: Recognition of
Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests
in Securitized Financial Assets.  Income
is recognized by applying the prospective method of adjusting the yield to
maturity based on an estimate of future cash flows.  If the value of the investment based on the
present value of the future cash flows is less than the Company’s carrying
amount, the investments will be written-down to fair value through
earnings.  Investments in securities of
non-publicly traded companies are reported at cost, as they are not considered
marketable under SFAS No. 115: Accounting For Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity Securities.

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, marketable securities
had an aggregate cost of $135,382,000 and $75,114,000 and an aggregate fair
value of $185,394,000 and $81,491,000 (of which $0 represents trading
securities; $178,999,000 and $43,527,000 represents securities available for
sale; and $6,395,000 and $37,964,000 represent securities held to
maturity).  Unrealized gains and losses
were $50,012,000 and $0 at December 31, 2004 and $6,377,000 and $0 at
December 31, 2003.


2.

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies - continued

Notes and Mortgage Loans
Receivable:

The Company’s policy is to record notes and
mortgage loans receivable at the stated principal amount less any discount or
premium.  The Company accretes or
amortizes any discounts or premiums over the life of the related loan
receivable utilizing the straight-line method which approximates the effective
interest method.  The Company evaluates
the collectibility of both interest and principal of each of its loans, if
circumstances warrant, to determine whether it is
impaired. A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current
information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to
collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. When a
loan is considered to be impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated
by comparing the recorded investment to the value determined by discounting the
expected future cash flows at the loan’s effective interest rate or, as a
practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral
dependent.

Deferred Charges:

Direct financing costs are deferred and amortized over the terms of the related
agreements as a component of interest expense. Direct costs related to leasing
activities are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the
lives of the related leases. All other deferred charges are amortized on a
straight-line basis, which approximates the effective interest rate method, in
accordance with the terms of the agreements to which they relate.

Fair Value of Financial
Instruments:

The Company has estimated the fair value of all
financial instruments reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
at amounts which are based upon an interpretation of available market
information and valuation methodologies (including discounted cash flow
analyses with regard to fixed rate debt). 
The fair value of the Company’s debt is approximately $256,518,000 and
$94,953,000 in excess of the aggregate carrying amounts at December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively.  Such fair
value estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that would be
realized upon disposition of the Company’s financial instruments.

Derivative
Instruments And Hedging Activities:

SFAS No. 133: Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (“SFAS No. 133”), as amended
and interpreted, establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative
instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts, and for hedging activities. 
As required by SFAS No. 133, the Company records all derivatives on the
balance sheet at fair value.  The accounting for changes in the fair value
of derivatives depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting
designation. Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair
value of an asset, liability, or firm commitment attributable to a particular
risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivatives
used to hedge the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or
other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges.

For derivatives designated as fair value hedges,
changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item related to the
hedged risk are recognized in earnings. For derivatives designated as cash flow
hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is
initially reported in other comprehensive income (loss) (outside of earnings)
and subsequently reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects
earnings, and the ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the
derivative is recognized directly in earnings. 
The Company assesses the effectiveness of each hedging relationship by
comparing the changes in fair value or cash flows of the derivative hedging
instrument with the changes in fair value or cash flows of the designated
hedged item or transaction. For derivatives not designated as hedges, changes
in fair value are recognized in earnings.


2.

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies - continued

Revenue Recognition:

The Company has the following revenue sources
and revenue recognition policies:

Base Rents — income arising from tenant leases.

These rents are recognized over the
non-cancelable term of the related leases on a straight-line basis which
includes the effects of rent steps and rent abatements under the leases.

Percentage Rents — income arising from retail tenant leases which are
contingent upon the sales of the tenant exceeding a defined threshold.  These rents are recognized in accordance with
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104: Revenue Recognition, which states that this
income is to be recognized only after the contingency has been removed (i.e.
sales thresholds have been achieved).

Hotel Revenues — income arising from the operation of
the Hotel Pennsylvania which consists of rooms revenue, food and beverage
revenue, and banquet revenue.

Income is recognized when rooms are
occupied.  Food and beverage and banquet
revenue is recognized when the services have been rendered.

Trade Show Revenues — income arising from the operation of trade shows,
including rentals of booths.  This
revenue is recognized in accordance with the booth rental contracts when the
trade shows have occurred.

Expense Reimbursements — revenue arising from tenant leases which
provide for the recovery of all or a portion of the operating expenses and real
estate taxes of the respective property.  This revenue is accrued in the same periods as
the expenses are incurred.  Contingent
rents are not recognized until realized.

Temperature Controlled Logistics revenue — income
arising from the Company’s investment in Americold.

Storage and handling revenue is recognized as
services are provided.  Transportation
fees are recognized upon delivery to customers.

Management, Leasing and Other Fees — income arising
from contractual agreements with third parties or with partially-owned
entities.

This
revenue is recognized as the related services are performed under the
respective agreements.

Income Taxes:

The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it to continue to qualify
as a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Under those sections, a REIT which distributes at least 90% of its REIT taxable
income as a dividend to its shareholders each year and which meets certain
other conditions will not be taxed on that portion of its taxable income which
is distributed to its shareholders.  The
Company will distribute to its shareholders 100% of its taxable income and
therefore, no provision for Federal income taxes is required. Dividend
distributions for the year ended December 31, 2004 were characterized for
Federal income tax purposes as 94.8% ordinary income and 5.2% long-term capital
gain income.  Dividend distributions for
the year ended December 31, 2003, were characterized for Federal income
tax purposes as 94.5% ordinary income and 5.5% long-term capital gain income.  Dividend distributions for the year ended
December 31, 2002 were characterized as ordinary income.

The Company owns stock in corporations that have
elected to be treated for Federal income tax purposes, as taxable REIT
subsidiaries (“TRS”).  The value of the
combined TRS stock cannot and does not exceed 20% of the value of the Company’s
total assets.  A TRS is taxable on its
net income at regular corporate tax rates. 
The total income tax paid for the 2004, 2003 and 2002 tax years was
$1,867,000, $2,048,000 and $1,430,000.

The following table reconciles net income to estimated
taxable income for the year ended December 31, 2004.

The net basis of the Company’s assets and liabilities
for tax purposes is approximately $3,189,273,000 lower than the amount reported
for financial statement purposes.


2.

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies - continued

Income Per
Share:

Basic income
per share is computed based on weighted average shares outstanding.  Diluted income per share considers the effect
of outstanding options, restricted shares, warrants and convertible or
redeemable securities.

Stock-Based Compensation:

In 2002 and prior years, the Company
accounted for employee stock options using the intrinsic value method. Under
the intrinsic value method compensation cost is measured as the excess, if any,
of the quoted market price of the Company’s stock at the date of grant over the
exercise price of the option granted. Compensation cost for stock options, if
any, is recognized ratably over the vesting period.  The Company’s policy is to grant options with
an exercise price equal to 100% of the market price of the Company’s stock on
the grant date. Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for the
Company’s stock option grants.  Effective
January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123: Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, as amended by SFAS No. 148: Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation - Transition and Disclosure. 
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123 prospectively by valuing and accounting
for employee stock options granted in 2003 and thereafter.  The Company utilizes a
binomial valuation model and appropriate market assumptions to determine
the value of each grant.  Stock-based
compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting
period for all grants subsequent to 2002. 
See Note 10. Stock-Based Compensation, for pro forma net income and pro
forma net income per share for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and
2002, assuming compensation costs for grants prior to 2003 were recognized as
compensation expense based on the fair value at the grant dates.

In addition to employee stock option grants, the
Company has also granted restricted shares to certain of its employees that
vest over a three to five year period. 
The Company records the value of each restricted share award as
stock-based compensation expense based on the Company’s closing stock price on
the NYSE on the date of grant on a straight-line basis over the vesting
period.  As of December 31, 2004, the
Company has 290,478 restricted shares or rights to receive restricted shares
outstanding to employees of the Company, excluding 626,566 shares issued to the
Company’s President in connection with his employment agreement.  The Company recognized $4,200,000, $3,239,000
and $914,000 of stock-based compensation expense in the years ended December
31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 for the portion of these shares that vested during each
year.  Dividends on both vested and
unvested shares are charged to retained earnings and amounted to $938,700,
$777,700 and $210,100 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.  Dividends on shares that
are canceled or terminated prior to vesting are charged to compensation expense
in the period they are cancelled or terminated.

Recently Issued Accounting Literature

On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153:

Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets - An
Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. The amendments made by SFAS No. 153 are based
on the principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based
on the fair value of the assets exchanged. Further, the amendments eliminate
the narrow exception for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets and
replace it with a broader exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do
not have “commercial substance.” SFAS No. 153 is effective for nonmonetary
asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The
Company does not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 153 on June 15, 2005 will
have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123:
(Revised 2004) - Share-Based Payment (“SFAS No. 123R”).  SFAS 123R replaces SFAS No. 123, which the
Company adopted on January 1, 2003. SFAS No. 123R requires that the
compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions be recognized in
financial statements and be measured based on the fair value of the equity or
liability instruments issued. SFAS No. 123R is effective as of the first
interim or annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005.  The Company does not believe that the
adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have a material effect on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.


3.

Acquisitions
and Dispositions

Acquisitions:

The Company completed approximately $328,600,000 of
real estate acquisitions and investments in 2004 and $530,400,000 in 2003.  In addition, the Company made $183,400,000 of
mezzanine loans during 2004 (see Note 6. Notes and Mortgage Loans
Receivable).  These acquisitions were
consummated through subsidiaries of the Company.  The related assets, liabilities and results
of operations are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements
from their respective dates of acquisition. 
The pro forma effect of the individual acquisitions and in the aggregate
were not material to the Company’s historical results of operations.

Acquisitions of individual properties are recorded as
acquisitions of real estate assets. 
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting. The purchase price for property acquisitions and businesses
acquired is allocated to acquired assets and assumed liabilities using their
relative fair values as of the acquisition date based on valuations and other
studies. Initial valuations are subject to change until such information is
finalized no later than 12 months from the acquisition date.

Office:

Building Maintenance Service Company (“BMS”)

On January 1, 2003, the Company acquired for
$13,000,000 in cash BMS, which provides cleaning, security and engineering
services principally to the Company’s Manhattan office properties.  This company was previously owned by the
estate of Bernard Mendik and certain other individuals including David R.
Greenbaum, one of the Company’s executive officers.  This acquisition was recorded as a business
combination under the purchase method of accounting.  Accordingly, the operations of BMS are
consolidated into the accounts of the Company beginning January 1, 2003.

Kaempfer Company
(“Kaempfer”)

On April 9, 2003, the Company acquired Kaempfer which
owns partial interests in six Class “A” office properties in
Washington D.C. containing 1.8 million square feet, manages and leases
these properties and four others for which it receives customary fees and has
options to acquire certain other real estate interests, including the
Waterfront project discussed below. 
Kaempfer’s equity interest in the properties approximates 5.0%.  The aggregate purchase price for the equity
interests and the management and leasing business was $32,200,000 (consisting
of $28,600,000 in cash and approximately 99,300 Operating Partnership
units valued at $3,600,000) and may be increased by up to $9,000,000 based on
the performance of the management company. 
This acquisition was recorded as a business combination under the
purchase method of accounting. 
Accordingly, the operations of Kaempfer are consolidated into the
accounts of the Company beginning April 9, 2003.

On October 7, 2003, the Company acquired a 2.5%
interest in the planned redevelopment of Waterfront, located at 401 M Street, a
mixed-use project in Washington D.C. (the “Waterfront interest”) for
$2,171,000, of which the Company paid $1,545,000 in cash and issued 12,500
Operating Partnership units valued at $626,000. 
The partnership units were issued to Mitchell N. Schear, one of the
partners in the Waterfront interest, who became the President of the Company’s
CESCR division.

20 Broad Street

On May 2, 2003, the Company acquired the
remaining 40% of a 78-year leasehold interest in 20 Broad Street it did
not already own.  The purchase price was
approximately $30,000,000 in cash.  20
Broad Street contains 466,000 square feet of office space, of which 348,000
square feet is leased to the New York Stock Exchange.  Prior to the acquisition of the remaining
40%, the Company consolidated the operations of this property and reflected the
40% interest that it did not own as a component of minority interest.  Subsequent to this acquisition, the Company
no longer reflects the 40% minority interest.


3.

Acquisitions and
Dispositions - continued

2101 L Street

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed the
acquisition of 2101 L Street, a 370,000 square foot office building located in
Washington D.C.  The consideration for
the acquisition consisted of approximately 1.1 million newly issued Operating
Partnership units (valued at approximately $49,517,000) and the assumption of
existing mortgage debt and transaction costs totaling approximately
$32,000,000.  Robert H. Smith and
Robert P. Kogod, trustees of the Company, together with family members owned approximately
24 percent of the limited partnership that sold the building and Mr. Smith was
a general partner.  On August 5,
2003, the Company repaid the mortgage of $29,056,000.

Crystal City Marriott

On July 1, 2004, the Company
acquired the Marriott hotel located in its Crystal City office complex from a
limited partnership in which Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod, trustees of
the Company, together with family members own approximately 67 percent.  The purchase price of $21,500,000 was paid in
cash

as part of a Section 1031 tax-free, “like-kind” exchange with a
portion of the proceeds from the Company’s sale of the Palisades Residential
Complex (see Dispositions)

.  The hotel contains 343 rooms and is leased to
an affiliate of Marriott International, Inc. until July 31, 2015, with one
10-year extension option.  The land under
the hotel was acquired in 1999.

Retail:

Bergen Mall

On December 12, 2003, the Company acquired the Bergen
Mall for approximately $145,000,000 in cash as part of a Section 1031 tax-free
“like-kind” exchange with a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the
Company’s Two Park Avenue property (see Dispositions).  The Bergen Mall is a 903,000 square foot
shopping center located on Route 4 East in Paramus, New Jersey.  The Company intends to expand, re-tenant and
redevelop the center in order to reposition the asset.  On January 27, 2004, the Company entered into
an agreement to modify the Value City lease to give the Company a one-year
option to terminate the lease no earlier than one year after notification and
upon payment of $12,000,000 to the tenant. 
The present value of this option is reflected in the acquisition price
and is included in other liabilities in the Company’s consolidated balance
sheets.

Forest Plaza Shopping Center

On February 3, 2004, the Company acquired the Forest
Plaza Shopping Center for approximately $32,500,000, of which $14,000,000 was
paid in cash, and $18,500,000 was debt assumed. 
The purchase was funded as part of Section 1031 tax-free “like kind”
exchange with the remaining portion of the proceeds from the sale of the
Company’s Two Park Avenue property (see Dispositions).  Forest Plaza is a 165,000 square foot
shopping center located in Staten Island, New York.

25 W. 14

th

Street

On March 19, 2004, the Company acquired a 62,000
square foot free-standing retail building located at 25 W. 14

th

Street in Manhattan for $40,000,000 in cash. 
This acquisition was paid in cash as part of a Section 1031 tax-free,
“like-kind” exchange with a portion of the proceeds from the Company’s sale of
the Palisades Residential Complex (see Dispositions).

Southern
California Supermarkets

On July 29, 2004, the Company acquired a real estate
portfolio containing 25 supermarkets for $65,000,000.  These properties, all of which are all
located in Southern California and contain an aggregate of approximately
766,000 square feet, were purchased from the Newkirk MLP, in which the
Company currently owns a 22.4% interest. 
The supermarkets are net leased to Stater Brothers for an initial
term expiring in 2008, with six 5-year extension options.  Stater Brothers is a Southern California
regional grocery chain that operates 158 supermarkets and has been in
business since 1936.  This acquisition was
paid in cash as part of a Section 1031 tax-free, “like-kind” exchange with a portion
of the proceeds from the Company’s sale of the Palisades Residential Complex
(see Dispositions).  The Company’s share
of gain recognized by Newkirk MLP on this transaction was $7,119,000 and was
reflected as an adjustment to the Company’s basis in its investment in Newkirk
MLP and not recognized as income.


3.

Acquisitions
and Dispositions - continued

Queens Boulevard

On August 30, 2004, the Company acquired 99-01 Queens
Boulevard, a 68,000 square foot free-standing building in Forest Hills, New
York for $26,500,000 in cash as part of a Section 1031 tax-free, “like-kind”
exchange with a portion of the proceeds from the Company’s sale of the
Palisades Residential Complex (see Dispositions).

Broome Street and Broadway

On November 2, 2004, the Company acquired a 50% joint
venture interest in a 92,500 square foot property located at Broome Street and
Broadway in New York City.  The Company
contributed $4,462,000 of equity and provided a $24,000,000 bridge loan with
interest at 10% per annum.  Upon the
refinancing of the bridge loan, which is expected to close in the second
quarter of 2005, the Company will be repaid $15,106,000 and the balance of
$8,894,000 will remain in the venture as additional equity.

Lodi and Burnside Shopping Centers

On November 12, 2004 and December 1, 2004, the Company
acquired two shopping centers aggregating 185,000 square feet, in Lodi, New
Jersey and Long Island (Inwood), New York, for a total purchase of $36,600,000
in cash plus $10,900,000 of assumed debt as part of a Section 1031 tax-free,
“like-kind” exchange with a portion of the proceeds from the Company’s sale of
the Palisades Residential Complex (see Dispositions).

Other Retail

In December 2004, the Company acquired two retail
condominiums aggregating 12,000 square feet, located at 386 and 387 West
Broadway in New York City for $16,900,000 in cash plus $4,700,000 of assumed
debt.

Other Investments:

Investment in GMH Communities L.P.

On July 20, 2004, the Company committed to make up to
a $159,000,000 convertible preferred investment in GMH Communities L.P.
(“GMH”), a partnership focused on the student and military housing
sectors.  Distributions accrued on the
full committed balance of the investment, whether or not drawn, from July 20,
2004, at a rate of 16.27%.  In connection
with this commitment, the Company received a placement fee of $3,200,000.  The Company also purchased for $1,000,000,
warrants to acquire GMH common equity. 
These warrants entitle the Company to acquire (i) 6,666,667 limited
partnership units in GMH at an exercise price of $7.50 per unit and (ii)
5,496,724 limited partnership units, through May 6, 2006, at an exercise price
of $9.10 per unit.  As of November 3,
2004, the Company had funded a total of $113,777,000 of the commitment.

On November 3, 2004, GMH Communities Trust (“GCT”)
closed its initial public offering (“IPO”) 
at a price of $12.00 per share. 
GCT is a real estate investment trust that conducts its business through
GMH, of which it is the sole general partner. 
In connection with the IPO, the $113,777,000 previously funded by the
Company under the $159,000,000 commitment was repaid, together with accrued
distributions of $13,381,000.  The
Company also exercised warrants to purchase 6,666,667 limited partnership units
at a price of $7.50 per unit, or $50,000,000 in total, which resulted in a gain
of $29,500,000.  The Company accounts for
its interest in the partnership units on the equity method based on its 12.25%
ownership interest and right to appoint one of its executive officers to GCT’s
Board of Trustees.  The Company records
its pro-rata share of GMH’s net income or loss on a one-quarter lag basis as
the Company files its financial statements on Form 10-K or 10-Q prior to the
time GMH files its financial statements.


Under the
warrant agreement, the number of GMH partnership units or GCT common shares
underlying the warrants is adjusted for dividends declared by GCT.  On December 16, 2004, GCT declared a dividend
of $.16 per common share, which increased the number of shares underlying the
warrants from 5,496,724 to 5,563,417 and the exercise price was decreased from
$9.10 to $8.99 per share.   Because these
warrants are derivatives and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the
gains and losses resulting from the mark-to-market of the warrants at the end
of each reporting period are recognized as an increase or decrease in “interest
and other investment income” on the Company’s consolidated statement of
income.  In the quarter ended December
31, 2004, the Company recognized income of $24,190,000 from the mark-to-market
of these warrants, which were valued using a trinomial option pricing model
based on GCT’s closing stock price on the NYSE of $14.10 per share on December
31, 2004.

Further, in
connection with the IPO, the Company contributed its 90% interest in
Campus Club Gainesville, which it acquired in 2000, in exchange for an
additional 671,190 GMH limited partnership units.

Of the
Company’s GMH units, 6,666,667 may be converted into an equivalent number of
common shares of GCT commencing on May 2, 2005 and 671,190 units may be
converted commencing on November 2, 2005. 
The Company has agreed not to sell any common shares or units it owns or
may acquire until May 2, 2005.

Investment in Sears, Roebuck and Co.

In July and
August 2004, the Company acquired an aggregate of 1,176,600 common shares of
Sears, Roebuck and Co. (“Sears”) for $41,945,000, an average price of $35.65
per share. Included in the cost is $1,361,000 for a performance-based
participation.  These shares are recorded
as marketable securities on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet and are
classified as “available for sale.” 
Appreciation or depreciation in the fair market value of these shares is
recorded as an increase or decrease in “accumulated other comprehensive income”
in the shareholders’ equity section of the Company’s consolidated balance sheet
and not recognized in income.  At
December 31, 2004, based on Sears’ closing stock price of $51.03 per share,
$18,105,000 of appreciation in the value of these shares was included in
“accumulated other comprehensive income.”

In August and
September 2004, the Company acquired an economic interest in an additional
7,916,900 Sears common shares through a series of privately negotiated
transactions with a financial institution pursuant to which the Company
purchased a call option and simultaneously sold a put option at the same strike
price on Sears common shares.  These call
and put options have an initial weighted-average strike price of  $39.82 per share, or an aggregate of
$315,250,000, expire in April 2006 and provide for net cash settlement.  Under these agreements, the strike price for
each pair of options increases at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis points
and is credited for the dividends received on the shares.  The options provide the Company with the same
economic gain or loss as if it had purchased the underlying common shares and
borrowed the aggregate strike price at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 45 basis
points.  Because these options are
derivatives and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the gains or
losses resulting from the mark-to-market of the options at the end of each
reporting period are recognized as an increase or decrease in “interest and
other investment income” on the Company’s consolidated statement of
income.  During the year ended December
31, 2004, the Company recorded net income of $81,730,000, comprised of (i)
$88,782,000 from the mark-to-market of the options on December 31, 2004, based
on Sears’ closing stock price of $51.03 per share and (ii) $2,295,000 for
accrued dividends, partially offset by (i) $5,972,000 for a performance-based
participation, (ii) $2,371,000 for the increase in strike price resulting from
the LIBOR charge and (iii) $1,004,000 of professional fees.

On November
16, 2004, Kmart Holding Corporation (“Kmart”) and Sears entered into an
Agreement and Plan of Merger.  Upon the
effective date of the merger, each share of Sears common stock will be
converted into the right to receive, at the election of the holder, (i) $50.00
in cash or (ii) 0.50 shares of common stock of the merged company, subject to
proration so that 55% of the Sears shares are exchanged for shares of the
merged company.

Based on
Sears’ most recent filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Company’s aggregate investment in Sears represents 4.2% of Sears’ outstanding
common shares.


3.

Acquisitions
and Dispositions - continued

Dispositions:

The following sets forth the details of sales,
dispositions, write-offs and other similar transactions for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:

Net Gains on Sales of Real Estate:

On January 9, 2003, the Company sold its
Baltimore, Maryland shopping center for $4,752,000, which resulted in a net
gain on the sale after closing costs of $2,644,000.

On October 10, 2003, the Company sold
Two Park Avenue, a 965,000 square foot office building, for
$292,000,000, which resulted in a net gain on the sale after closing costs of
$156,433,000.  Substantially all of the
proceeds from the sale have been reinvested in tax-free “like-kind” exchange
investments pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section
1031”).

On November 3, 2003, the Company sold its Hagerstown,
Maryland shopping center property for $3,100,000, which resulted in a net gain
on sale after closing costs of $1,945,000.

On June 29, 2004, the Company sold its Palisades
Residential Complex for $222,500,000, which resulted in a net gain on sale
after closing costs of $65,905,000. 
Substantially all of the proceeds from the sale were reinvested in tax-free
“like kind” exchange investments pursuant to Section 1031.  On February 27, 2004, the Company had
acquired the remaining 25% interest in the Palisades venture it did not
previously own for approximately $17,000,000 in cash.

On August 12, 2004, the Company sold its Dundalk,
Maryland shopping center for $12,900,000, which resulted in a net gain on sale
after closing costs of $9,850,000. 
Substantially all of the proceeds from the sale have been reinvested in
tax-free “like-kind” exchange investments pursuant to Section 1031.

Net gains (losses) on disposition of
wholly-owned and partially-owned assets other than depreciable real estate:


3.

Acquisitions
and Dispositions - continued

Primestone Settlement of Guarantees (2003) and
Foreclosure and Impairment Losses (2002)

On September 28, 2000, the Company made a $62,000,000
loan to Primestone Investment Partners, L.P. (“Primestone”).  The loan bore interest at 16% per annum.  Primestone defaulted on the repayment of this
loan on October 25, 2001.  The loan was
subordinate to $37,957,000 of other debt of the borrower that liened the
Company’s collateral.  On October 31,
2001, the Company purchased the other debt for its face amount.  The loans were secured by 7,944,893
partnership units in Prime Group Realty, L.P., the operating partnership of
Prime Group Realty Trust (NYSE:PGE) and the partnership units were exchangeable
for the same number of common shares of PGE. 
The loans were also guaranteed by affiliates of Primestone.

On November 19, 2001, the Company sold, pursuant to a
participation agreement with a subsidiary of Cadim inc. (“Cadim”), a
Canadian pension fund, a 50% participation in both loans at par for
approximately $50,000,000 reducing the Company’s net investment in the loans at
December 31, 2001 to $56,768,000 including unpaid interest and fees of
$6,790,000.  The participation did not
meet the criteria for “sale accounting” under SFAS 140 because Cadim was not
free to pledge or exchange the assets.

On April 30, 2002, the Company and Cadim acquired the
7,944,893 partnership units at a foreclosure auction.  The price paid for the units by application
of a portion of Primestone’s indebtedness to the Company and Cadim was $8.35
per unit, the April 30, 2002 closing price of shares of PGE on the New York
Stock Exchange.  On June 28, 2002,
pursuant to the terms of the participation agreement, the Company transferred
3,972,447 of the partnership units to Cadim.

In the second quarter of 2002, in accordance with
foreclosure accounting, the Company recorded a loss on the Primestone
foreclosure of $17,671,000 calculated based on (i) the acquisition price
of the units and (ii) its valuation of the amounts realizable under the
guarantees by affiliates of Primestone, as compared with the net carrying
amount of the investment at April 30, 2002. 
In the third quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a $2,229,000
write-down on its investment based on costs expended to realize the value of
the guarantees.  Further, in the fourth
quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a $15,857,000 write-down of its
investment in Prime Group consisting of 
(i) $14,857,000 to adj

u

st
the carrying amount of the Prime Group units to $4.61 per unit, the closing
price of PGE shares on December 31, 2002 on the New York Stock Exchange and
(ii) $1,000,000 for estimated costs to realize the value of the
guarantees.  The Company considered the
decline in the value of the units which are convertible into stock to be other
than temporary as of December 31, 2002, based on the fact that the market value
of the units which are convertible into stock had been less than its cost for
more than six months, the severity of the decline, market trends, the financial
condition and near-term prospects of Prime Group and other relevant factors.

On June 11, 2003, the Company exercised its right to
exchange the 3,972,447 units it owned in Prime Group Realty L.P. for 3,972,447
common shares in Prime Group Realty Trust (NYSE:PGE).  Prior to the exchange, the Company accounted for
its investment in the partnership on the equity method.  Subsequent to the exchange, the Company is
accounting for its investment in PGE as a marketable equity security-available
for sale, as the Company’s shares represent less than a 20% ownership interest
in PGE (which is not a partnership), the Company does not have significant
influence and the common shares have a readily determinable fair value.  Accordingly, the carrying amount previously
included in Investments and Advances to Partially-Owned Entities was
reclassified to Marketable Securities on the Company’s consolidated balance
sheet.  The Company is also required to
mark these securities to market based on the closing price of the PGE shares on
the NYSE at the end of each reporting period. 
For the period from June 11, 2003 through December 31, 2003, the Company
recorded a $6,623,000 unrealized gain, which is not included in the Company’s
net income, but is reflected as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income (Loss) in the Shareholders’ Equity section of the consolidated balance
sheet.  From the date of exchange, income
recognition is limited to dividends received on the PGE shares.

On June 13, 2003, the Company received its
$5,000,000 share of a settlement with affiliates of Primestone Investment
Partners of the amounts due under the guarantees of the Primestone loans.  In connection therewith, the Company
recognized a $1,388,000 loss on settlement of the guarantees.


3.

Acquisitions and
Dispositions - continued

Gain
on Transfer of Mortgages

In the year ended
December 31, 2002, the Company recorded a net gain of approximately $2.1
million resulting from payments to the Company by third parties that assumed
certain of the Company’s mortgages. 
Under these transactions the Company paid to the third parties that
assumed the Company’s obligations the outstanding amounts due under the
mortgages and the third parties paid the Company for the benefit of assuming
the mortgages.  The Company has been
released by the creditors underlying these loans.

Net
Gain on Sale of Air Rights

In 2002, the Company constructed a $16.3 million
community facility and low-income residential housing development (the
“30th Street Venture”), in order to receive 163,728 square feet of
transferable development rights, generally referred to as “air rights”.  The Company donated the building to a
charitable organization.  The Company
sold 106,796 square feet of these air rights to third parties at an
average price of $120 per square foot. 
An additional 28,821 square feet of air rights was sold to
Alexander’s at a price of $120 per square foot for use at
Alexander’s 731 Lexington Avenue project. 
In each case, the Company received cash in exchange for air rights.  The Company identified third party buyers for
the remaining 28,111 square feet of air rights of the 30th Street
Venture.  These third party buyers wanted
to use the air rights for the development of two projects located in the
general area of 86th Street which was not within the required geographical
radius of the construction site nor in the same Community Board as the
low-income housing and community facility project.  The 30th Street Venture asked Alexander’s
to sell 28,111 square feet of the air rights it already owned to the third
party buyers (who could use them) and the 30th Street Venture would
replace them with 28,111 square feet of air rights.  In October 2002, the Company sold
28,111 square feet of air rights to Alexander’s for an aggregate sales
price of $3,059,000 (an average of $109 per square foot).   Alexander’s then sold an equal amount of air
rights to the third party buyers for an aggregate sales price of $3,339,000 (an
average of $119 per square foot).

Net Gains on Sale of Residential Condominium Units

The
Company recognized net gains of $776,000, $282,000 and $2,156,000 during 2004,
2003 and 2002, respectively, from the sale of residential condominiums.


4.

Discontinued
Operations

SFAS No. 144 requires discontinued operations
presentation for disposals of a “component” of an entity.  In accordance with SFAS No. 144, for all
periods presented, the Company reclassified its consolidated statements of
income to reflect income and expenses for properties which became held for sale
subsequent to December 31, 2001, as discontinued operations and reclassified
its consolidated balance sheets to reflect assets and liabilities related to
such properties as assets related to discontinued operations and liabilities
related to discontinued operations.

Assets related to discontinued operations consist
primarily of real estate, net of accumulated depreciation.  The following table sets forth the balances
of the assets related to discontinued operations as of December 31, 2004 and
2003:

The following table sets forth the balances of the
liabilities related to discontinued operations (primarily mortgage notes
payable) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003.

The combined results of operations of the assets
related to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003
and 2002 are as follows:

See Note 3. – Acquisition
and Dispositions for details of gains on sale of real estate related to discontinued
operations in the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.


5.

Investments in
Partially-Owned Entities

The Company’s investments in partially-owned entities
and income recognized from such investments are as follows:

Balance Sheet
Data:

(1)

See page 133
for details.

(2)

As of
December 31, 2004, the Company owns 7.3 million limited partnership units, or
12.25% of the limited partnership interest of GMH, a partnership focused on the
student and military housing sectors. 
Details of this investment are provided on page 123.  The Company accounts for its interest in the
partnership units on the equity-method based on its 12.25% ownership interest
and right to appoint one of its executive officers to GCT’s Board of
Trustees.  The Company records its
prorata share of GMH’s net income or loss on a one-quarter lag basis as the
Company files its financial statements on Form 10-K or 10-Q prior to the time
GMH files its financial statements. 
GMH’s properties were 94.2% occupied as of December 31, 2004.  GMH’s outstanding indebtedness was $359,000
as of December 31, 2004, of which the Company’s share was $44,000.

In
addition, the Company holds warrants to purchase an additional 5.6 million
limited partnership units of GMH or common shares of GCT at a price of
$8.99 per unit or share through May 6, 2006. Because these warrants are
derivatives and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the gains or
losses resulting from the mark-to-market of the warrants at the end of each
reporting period are recognized as an increase or decrease in “interest and
other investment income” on the Company’s consolidated statement of income. In
the quarter ended December 31, 2004, the Company recognized $24,190 from the mark-to-market
of these warrants, which were valued using trinomial option pricing model based
on GCT’s closing stock price on the NYSE of $14.10 per share on December 31,
2004.


5.

Investments
in Partially-Owned Entities - continued

Below is a summary of the debt of partially owned
entities as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, none of which is guaranteed by the
Company.

(1)

Beginning on November 18, 2004, the Company’s
investment in Americold is consolidated into the accounts of the Company.

Based on the Company’s ownership interest in the
partially-owned entities above, the Company’s share of the debt of these
partially-owned entities was $669,942,000 and $930,567,000 as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.


5.

Investments
in Partially-Owned Entities - continued

Income
Statement Data:

(1)

2002 includes the Company’s $3,431 share of
Alexander’s gain on sale of its Third Avenue property.

(2)

Alexander’s capitalizes the fees and
interest charged by the Company.  Because
the Company owns 33% of Alexander’s, the Company recognizes 67% of such amounts
as income and the remainder is reflected as a reduction of the Company’s
carrying amount of the investment in Alexander’s.

(3)

Beginning on November 18, 2004, the
Company’s investment in Americold is consolidated into the accounts of the
Company.

(4)

Represents the Company’s interests in
330 Madison Avenue (24.8%), 825 Seventh Avenue (50%), Fairfax Square
(20%) and Kaempfer equity interests in six office buildings (.1% to 10%).

(5)

On June 11, 2003, the Company
exercised its right to exchange the 3,972,447 units it owned in Prime Group
Realty L.P. for 3,972,447 common shares in Prime Group Realty Trust
(NYSE:PGE).  Prior to the exchange, the
Company accounted for its investment in the partnership on the equity
method.  Subsequent to the exchange, the
Company is accounting for its investment in PGE as a marketable equity security-available
for sale.


5.

Investments
in Partially-Owned Entities - continued

Alexander’s

The Company owns 33% of the outstanding common stock
of Alexander’s at December 31, 2004 and 2003.  
The Company manages, leases and develops Alexander’s properties pursuant
to agreements (see below) which expire
in March of each year and are automatically renewable, except for the 731
Lexington Avenue development agreement which provides for a term lasting until
substantial completion of the development of the property.

Management and Leasing Agreements

The Company receives an annual fee for managing all of
Alexander’s properties equal to the sum of (i) $3,000,000, (ii) 3% of
the gross income from the Kings Plaza Mall, and (iii) 6% of development
costs with minimum guaranteed fees of $750,000 per annum.

The Company generally receives a fee of (i) 3% of
lease rent for the first ten years of a lease term, 2% of lease rent for the 11

th

through the 20

th

years of a lease term and 1% of lease rent for the

st

through 30

th

years of a lease term, subject to the
payment of rents by Alexander’s tenants and (ii) 3% of asset sales
proceeds.  Such amounts are payable to
the Company annually in an amount not to exceed an aggregate of $2,500,000
until the present value of such installments (calculated at a discount rate of
9% per annum) equals the amount that would have been paid at the time the
transactions which gave rise to the commissions occurred.

The Company recognized $7,800,000, $4,339,000 and
$4,781,000 of fee income under these agreements during the years ended December
31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 
At December 31, 2004, and 2003, $23,744,000 and $14,450,000 was due
to the Company under these agreements.

731 Lexington Avenue and Other Fees

The Company is entitled to
a development fee for the construction of Alexander’s 731 Lexington Avenue
property of approximately $26,300,000, based on 6% of construction costs, as
defined, payable on the earlier of January 3, 2006, or the date of payment in
full of the construction loan encumbering the property.

The Company guaranteed to Alexander’s
731 Lexington Avenue construction lender, the lien free, timely completion of
the construction of the project and funding of project costs in excess of a
stated budget, if not funded by Alexander’s for which the Company is entitled
to a $6,300,000 estimated fee based on 1 % of construction costs, as defined,
payable upon the completion of construction. 
Based upon the current status of construction, management does not
anticipate the need to fund pursuant to this completion guarantee.  The
Company has recognized $3,777,000, $6,935,000 and $6,915,000 as development and
guarantee fee income during the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.  At December 31, 2004 and
2003, $24,086,000 and $19,265,000 was due under the development and guarantee
agreements.

Building Maintenance
Services (“BMS”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, supervises the
cleaning, engineering and security at Alexander’s 731 Lexington Avenue property
for an annual fee of 6% of costs for such services.  In October 2004, Alexander’s also contracted
with BMS to provide the same services at the Kings Plaza Regional Shopping
Center on the same terms.  On May 27,
2004, the Company entered into an agreement with Alexander’s under which it
provides property management services at 731 Lexington Avenue for an annual fee
of $0.50 per square foot of the tenant-occupied office and retail space.  These agreements were negotiated and approved
by a special committee of directors of Alexander’s that were not affiliated
with the Company.  The Company recognized
$1,384,000 of fee income under these agreements during the year ended December
31, 2004.


5.

Investments
in Partially-Owned Entities - continued

Debt Agreements

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company has
loans receivable from Alexander’s of $124,000,000, including $29,000,000 drawn
under a $50,000,000 line of credit.  The
maturity date of the loans is the earlier of January 3, 2006 or the date
the Alexander’s Lexington Avenue construction loan is finally repaid.  Effective April 1, 2004, based on Alexander’s
improved liquidity, the Company modified its term loan and line of credit to
Alexander’s to reduce the spread on the interest rate it charges from 9.48% to
6%.  Accordingly, the current interest
rate was reduced from 12.48% to 9%.

On February 13, 2004, Alexander’s completed a
$400,000,000 mortgage financing on the office space of its Lexington Avenue
development project.  The loan bears
interest at 5.33%, matures in February 2014 and beginning in the third year,
provides for principal payments based on a 25-year amortization schedule such
that over the remaining eight years of the loan, ten years of amortization will
be paid.  Of the loan proceeds,
$253,529,000 was used to repay the entire amount outstanding under the
construction loan.  The construction loan
was modified so that the remaining availability is $237,000,000, which was
approximately the amount estimated to complete the Lexington Avenue development
project.  The interest rate on the
construction loan is LIBOR plus 2.5% (4.92% at December 31, 2004) and matures
in January 2006, with two one-year extensions. 
The collateral for the construction loan is the same, except that the
office space has been removed from the lien. 
Further, the construction loan permits the release of the retail space
for a payment of $15,000,000 and requires all proceeds from the sale of the
residential condominium units to be applied to the construction loan balance
until it is finally repaid.

Temperature
Controlled Logistics

On February 5, 2004, Americold Realty Trust
(“Americold”) completed a $254,400,000 mortgage financing for 21 of its owned
and 7 of its leased temperature-controlled warehouses.  The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.95%
(with a LIBOR floor of 1.5% with respect to $54,400,000 of the loan) and requires
principal payments of $5,000,000 annually. 
The loan matures in April 2009 and is pre-payable without penalty after
February 5, 2006.  The net proceeds were
approximately $225,000,000 after providing for usual escrows, closing costs and
the repayment of $12,900,000 of existing mortgages on two of the warehouses, of
which $135,000,000 was distributed to the Company and the remainder was
distributed to its partner.

Prior to November 18,
2004, the Company owned a 60% interest in Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership
(“VCPP”) which owned Americold. 
Americold owns 88 temperature controlled warehouses, all of which were
leased to AmeriCold Logistics.  On
November 4, 2004, Americold purchased its tenant, AmeriCold Logistics, for
$47,700,000 in cash.  On November 18,
2004, the Company and its 40% partner, Crescent Real Estate Equities Company
(“CEI”) collectively sold 20.7% of Americold’s common shares to The Yucaipa
Companies (“Yucaipa”) for $145,000,000, which resulted in a gain, of which the
Company’s share was $18,789,000. The sale price was based on a $1.450 billion
valuation for Americold before debt and other obligations.  Yucaipa is a private equity firm with
significant expertise in the food distribution, logistics and retail
industries.  Upon closing of the sale to
Yucaipa on November 18, 2004, Americold is owned 47.6% by the Company, 31.7% by
CEI and 20.7% by Yucaipa. Pursuant to the sales agreement: (i) Yucaipa may earn
a promote of 20% of the increase in the value of Americold through December 31,
2007, limited to 10% of the Company’s and CEI’s remaining interest in
Americold; (ii) the annual asset management fee payable by CEI to the Company
has been reduced from approximately $5,500,000 to $4,548,000, payable quarterly
through October 30, 2027.  CEI, at its
option, may terminate the payment of this fee at any time after November 2009,
by paying the Company a termination fee equal to the present value of the
remaining payments through October 30, 2027, discounted at 10%.  In addition, CEI is obligated to pay a pro
rata portion of the termination fee to the extent it sells a portion of its
equity interest in Americold; and (iii) VCPP was dissolved.  The Company has the right to appoint three of
the five members to Americold’s Board of Trustees.  Consequently, the Company is deemed to
exercise control over Americold and, on November 18, 2004, the Company began to
consolidate the operations and financial position of Americold into its
accounts and no longer accounts for its investment on the equity method.


6.

Notes and Mortgage
Loans Receivable

General Motors Building
Mezzanine Loans

On October 20, 2003, the Company made a
$200,000,000 mezzanine loan secured by partnership interests in the General
Motors Building.  The Company’s loan is
subordinate to $900,000,000 of other debt. 
The loan is based on a rate of LIBOR plus 8.685% (with a LIBOR floor of
1.5%) and currently yields 10.185%.  On
October 30, 2003, the Company made an additional $25,000,000 loan, as part of a
$50,000,000 loan, the balance of which was funded by an affiliate of Soros Fund
Management LLC.  This loan, which is
junior to the $1,100,000,000 of loans noted above, is based on a rate of LIBOR
plus 12.81% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%) and currently yields 14.31%.

On September 1, 2004, the Company acquired a
$50,000,000 participation in an existing $200,000,000 loan on the General
Motors Building made by an affiliate of Soros Fund Management LLC.  This loan, which is subordinate to $1.15 billion
of other debt, is secured by partnership interests in the building and
additional guarantees and collateral. 
The $50,000,000 participation bears interest at 16%, matures on March
25, 2005 and is prepayable at any time.

On January 7, 2005, all of
the outstanding General Motors Building loans aggregating $275,000,000 were
repaid.  In connection therewith, the
Company received a $4,500,000 prepayment premium and $1,996,000 of accrued
interest and fees through January 14, 2005, which will be recognized in the
first quarter of 2005.

Loan to Commonwealth
Atlantic Properties (“CAPI”)

On March 4, 1999, the Company made an additional
$242,000,000 investment in CESCR by contributing to CESCR the land under
certain CESCR office properties in Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia and
partnership interests in certain CESCR subsidiaries.  The Company acquired these assets from CAPI,
an affiliate of Lazard Freres Real Estate Investors L.L.C., for $242,000,000,
immediately prior to the contribution to CESCR. In addition, the Company
acquired from CAPI for $8,000,000 the land under a Marriott Hotel located in
Crystal City.  The Company paid the
$250,000,000 purchase price to CAPI by issuing 4,998,000 of the Company’s
Series E-1 convertible preferred units. 
In connection with these transactions, the Company agreed to make a
five-year $41,200,000 loan to CAPI with interest at 8%, increasing to 9%
ratably over the term.  On March 1, 2004,
the balance of the loan of $38,500,000 was repaid.

Loan to Vornado Operating
Company (“Vornado Operating”)

At December 31, 2003, the
amount outstanding under the revolving credit agreement with Vornado Operating
was $21,989,000.  Beginning January 1,
2002, the Company had fully reserved for the interest income on the debt under
this facility.  On November 4, 2004, in
connection with the sale of AmeriCold Logistics to Americold Realty Trust,
Vornado Operating repaid the outstanding balance of the loan together with all
unpaid interest totaling $4,771,000.  In
connection with the above, the revolving credit agreement was terminated.

Dearborn Center Mezzanine
Construction Loan

On March 19,
2003, the outstanding amount of $29,401,000 was received from Dearborn Center
representing the full satisfaction of the mezzanine construction loan.  The loan bore interest at 12% per annum
plus additional interest of $5,655,000 which was received upon repayment.

Extended Stay America
Mezzanine Loan

On May 12,
2004, the Company made an $83,000,000 mezzanine loan secured by ownership
interests in a subsidiary of Extended Stay America, Inc., which was recently
acquired for approximately $3.1 billion by an affiliate of the Blackstone
Group. The loan is part of a $166,000,000 facility, the balance of which was
funded by Soros Credit LP, and is subordinate to $2.3 billion of other debt.
The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 5.50% (7.90% at December 31, 2004) and
matures in May 2007, with two one-year extensions.  Extended Stay America owns and operates 485
hotels in 42 states.

Charles Square
Mezzanine Loan

On November
17, 2004, the Company made a $43,500,000 mezzanine loan secured by Charles
Square in Howard Square in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  The property consists of a 293–room hotel,
140,000 square feet of office and retail space and a 568-car parking
facility.  This loan is subordinate to
$82,500,000 of other debt, bears interest 7.56% and matures in September 2009.


6.

Notes
and Mortgage Loans Receivable - continued

Other

On June 1, 2004 and
September 24, 2004, the Company acquired Verde Group LLC (“Verde”) convertible
subordinated debentures for $14,350,000 and $8,150,000, in cash, increasing the
Company’s investment in Verde at

December

, 2004 to $25,000,000.  Verde
invests, operates and develops residential communities, among others, primarily
on the Texas-Mexico border.  The
debentures yield a fixed rate of 4.75% per annum and matures on December 31,
2018.

On June 1, 2004, the
Company invested $5,000,000 in a senior mezzanine loan, and $3,050,000 in
senior preferred equity of 3700 Associates, LLC which owns 3700 Las Vegas
Boulevard, a development land parcel located in Las Vegas, Nevada.  The loan bears interest at 12% and matures on
March 31, 2007.  The preferred equity
yields a 10% per annum cumulative preferred return.

On December 10, 2004, the
Company acquired a $6,776,000 mezzanine loan which is subordinate to
$61,200,000 of other loans, and secured by The Gallery at Military Circle, a
943,000 square foot mall in Norfolk, Virginia. 
The loan bears interest at 8.4% per annum and matures in August 2014 .

7.

Identified
Intangible Assets and Goodwill

The following summarizes the Company’s identified
intangible assets, intangible liabilities (deferred credit) and goodwill as of
December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003.

Amortization of acquired below market leases net of
acquired above market leases resulted in an increase to rental income of
$38,616,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004, and $23,639,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2003.  The estimated
annual amortization of acquired below market leases net of acquired above
market leases for each of the five succeeding years is as follows:

The
estimated annual amortization of all other identified intangible assets (a
component of depreciation and amortization expense) including acquired in-place
leases, customer relationships, and third party contracts for each of the five
succeeding years is as follows:


8.

Debt

Following is a summary of the Company’s debt:

See notes on page 138.


8.

Debt
- - continued

See notes on the following page.


8.

Debt
- - continued

(1)

On February 5, 2004, the Company completed a $300,000
refinancing of Two Penn Plaza.  The loan
bears interest at 4.97% and matures in February 2011.  The Company retained net proceeds of $39,000
after repaying the existing $151,000 loan, $75,000 of the $275,000 mortgage
loan on its One Penn Plaza property and the $33,000 mortgage loan on 866 U.N.
Plaza.  On November 15, 2004, the Company
completed a $220,000,000 refinancing of Eleven Penn Plaza.  This loan bears interest at 5.20% and matures
on December 1, 2014.  Of the loan
proceeds, $200,000,000 was used to repay the remainder of the loan on One Penn
Plaza.

(2)

Repaid at maturity or upon sale of the related real
estate during 2004.

(3)

On June 9, 2003, the Company completed a $170,000
financing of its 770 Broadway property. 
The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.05% is pre-payable after one
year without penalty and matures in June 2006 with two-one year extension
options.  The proceeds of the new loan
were used primarily to repay (i) a $18,926 mortgage loan on 33 North Dearborn,
(ii) a $69,507 mortgage loan on Tysons Dulles Plaza, and (iii) $40,000 of
borrowing under the Company’s unsecured revolving credit facility.  In connection with the closing of the 770
Broadway loan, the Company purchased an interest rate cap, and simultaneously
sold an interest rate cap with the same terms. 
Since these instruments do not reduce the Company’s net interest rate
risk exposure, they do not qualify as hedges and changes in their respective
values are charged to earnings.  As the
significant terms of these arrangements are the same, the effects of a
revaluation of these instruments is expected to substantially offset one
another.  Simultaneously with the
completion of the 770 Broadway loan, the Company used cash from its mortgage
escrow account to repay $133,659 of the $153,659 of debt previously
cross-collateralized by its 770 Broadway and 595 Madison Avenue properties.

(4)

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed a refinancing
of its 909 Third Avenue mortgage loan. 
The new $125,000 mortgage loan is for a term of three years and bears
interest at LIBOR plus .70% and has two one-year extension options.  Simultaneously with the completion of the 909
Third Avenue loan, the Company used cash from its mortgage escrow account to
repay the balance of $20,000 of debt previously cross-collateralized by its 770
Broadway and 595 Madison Avenue properties. 
In connection with the closing of the 909 Third Avenue loan, the Company
purchased an interest rate cap and simultaneously sold an interest rate cap
with the same terms.  Since these
instruments do not reduce the Company’s net interest rate risk exposure, they
do not qualify as hedges and changes in their respective values are charged to
earnings.  As the significant terms of
these arrangements are the same, the effects of a revaluation of these
instruments is expected to substantially offset one another.

(5)

Beginning on November 18, 2004, the Company’s
investment in Americold is consolidated into the accounts of the Company.

(6)

On June 27, 2002, the Company entered
into interest rate swaps that effectively converted the interest rate on the
$500,000 senior unsecured notes due 2007 from a fixed rate of 5.625% to a
floating rate of LIBOR plus .7725%, based upon the trailing 3 month LIBOR
rate (2.57% if set on December 31, 2004). 
The swaps were designated and effective as fair value hedges with a fair
value of $13,148 and $25,780 at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and
included in “Other Assets” on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.  Accounting for these swaps requires the
Company to recognize the changes in the fair value of the debt during each
period.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003,
the fair value adjustment to the principal amount of the debt was $13,148 and
$25,780, based on the fair value of the swap assets, and is included in the
balance of the Senior Unsecured Notes.  Because
the hedging relationship qualifies for the “short-cut” method, no hedge
ineffectiveness on these fair value hedges was recognized in 2004 and 2003.

(7)

On August 16, 2004, the Company completed a public
offering of $250,000, aggregate principal amount of 4.50% senior unsecured
notes due August 15, 2009.  Interest on
the notes is payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 commencing,
February 15, 2005.  The notes were priced
at 99.797% of their face amount to yield 4.546%. The notes are subject to the
same financial covenants as the Company’s previously issued senior unsecured
notes.  The net proceeds of approximately
$247,700 were used for general corporate purposes.

(8)

On November 25, 2003, the Company completed an
offering of $200,000, aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior unsecured
notes due December 1, 2010.  Interest on
the notes is payable semi-annually on June 1st and December 1st, commencing in
2004.  The notes were priced at 99.869%
of their face amount to yield 4.772%. The notes contain the same financial
covenants that are in the Company’s notes issued in June 2002, except the
maximum ratio of secured debt to total assets is now 50% (previously 55%).  The net proceeds of approximately $198,500
were used primarily to repay existing mortgage debt.

(9)

On July 3, 2003, the Company entered into a new
$600,000 unsecured revolving credit facility which has replaced its $1 billion
unsecured revolving credit facility which was to mature in July 2003.  The new facility has a three-year term, a
one-year extension option and bears interest at LIBOR plus .65%.  The Company also has the ability under the
new facility to seek up to $800,000 of commitments during the facility’s
term.  The new facility contains
financial covenants similar to the prior facility.


8.

Debt
- - continued

The net carrying amount of properties collateralizing
the notes and mortgages amounted to $4,918,302,000 at December 31,
2004.  As at December 31, 2004, the
principal repayments required for the next five years and thereafter are as
follows:

9.

Shareholders’ Equity

Series A Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial
Interest

Holders of Series A Preferred Shares of beneficial
interest are entitled to receive dividends in an amount equivalent to $3.25 per
annum per share.  These dividends are
cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears. 
The Series A Preferred Shares are convertible at any time at the option
of their respective holders at a conversion rate of 1.38504 common shares per
Series A Preferred Share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.  In addition, upon the satisfaction of certain
conditions the Company, at its option, may redeem the $3.25 Series A Preferred
Shares at a current conversion rate of 1.38504 common shares per Series A
Preferred Share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.  At no time will the Series A Preferred Shares
be redeemable for cash.

Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest

Holders of Series B Preferred Shares of beneficial
interest were entitled to receive dividends at an annual rate of 8.5% of the
liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, or $2.125 per Series B Preferred
Share per annum.  On March 17, 2004, the
Company redeemed of all of the outstanding Series B Preferred Shares.  At the redemption price of $25.00 per share,
aggregating $85,000,000 plus accrued dividends. 
The redemption amount exceeded the carrying amount by $3,195,000,
representing original issuance costs. 
These costs were recorded as a reduction to earnings in arriving at net
income applicable to common shares, in accordance with the July 2003 EITF
clarification of Topic D-42.

Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest

Holders of Series C Preferred Shares of beneficial
interest are entitled to receive dividends at an annual rate of 8.5% of the
liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, or $2.125 per Series C Preferred
Share per annum.  These dividends are
cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears. 
The Series C Preferred Shares are not convertible into or exchangeable
for any other property or any other securities of the Company at the election
of the holders.  On January 19, 2005, the
Company redeemed all of its 8.5% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Shares at the stated redemption price of $25.00 per share plus accrued
distributions.

Series D-10 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest

Holders of Series D-10 Preferred Shares of beneficial
interest are entitled to receive dividends at an annual rate of 7.0% of the
liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, or $1.75 per Series D-10 Preferred
Share per annum.  These dividends are
cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears. 
The Series D-10 Preferred Shares are not convertible into or
exchangeable for any other property or any other securities of the Company at
the election of the holders.  On or after
November 17, 2008 (or sooner under limited circumstances), the Company, at its
option, may redeem Series D-10 Preferred Shares at a redemption price of $25.00
per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends through the date of redemption.  The Series D-10 Preferred Shares have no
maturity date and will remain outstanding indefinitely unless redeemed by the
Company.


9.

Shareholders’
Equity - continued

Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest

On
August 17, 2004, the Company sold $75,000,000 of Series E Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares in a public offering pursuant to an effective registration
statement.  Holders of Series E Preferred
Shares of beneficial interest are entitled to receive dividends at an annual
rate of 7.0% of the liquidation preference

of $25.00 per share

, or $1.75 per Series E Preferred Share per
annum.  These dividends are cumulative
and payable quarterly in arrears.  The Series
E Preferred Shares are not convertible into or exchangeable for any other
property or any other securities of the Company at the election of the
holders.  On or after August 20, 2009 (or
sooner under limited circumstances), the Company, at its option, may redeem
Series E Preferred Shares at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus any
accrued and unpaid dividends through the date of redemption.  The Series E Preferred Shares have no
maturity date and will remain outstanding indefinitely unless redeemed by the
Company.

Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest

On November 10, 2004, the Company sold
$150,000,000 of Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares in a public
offering pursuant to an effective registration statement.  Holders of Series F Preferred Shares of
beneficial interest are entitled to receive dividends at an annual rate of
6.75% of the liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, or $1.6875 per Series
F Preferred Share per annum.  These
dividends are cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears.  The Series F Preferred Shares are not
convertible into or exchangeable for any other property or any other securities
of the Company at the election of the holders. 
On or after November 17, 2009 (or sooner under limited circumstances),
the Company, at its option, may redeem Series F Preferred Shares at a
redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends
through the date of redemption.  The
Series F Preferred Shares have no maturity date and will remain outstanding
indefinitely unless redeemed by the Company.

Series G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of
Beneficial Interest

On
December 16, 2004, the Company sold $200,000,000 of Series G Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares in a public offering pursuant to an effective
registration statement.  Holders of
Series G Preferred Shares of beneficial interest are entitled to receive
dividends at an annual rate of 6.625% of the liquidation preference

of
$25.00 per share

, or $1.656 per Series
G Preferred Share per annum.  These
dividends are cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears.  The Series G Preferred Shares are not
convertible into or exchangeable for any other property or any other securities
of the Company at the election of the holders. 
On or after December 22, 2009 (or sooner under limited circumstances),
the Company, at its option, may redeem Series G Preferred Shares at a
redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends
through the date of redemption.  The
Series G Preferred Shares have no maturity date and will remain outstanding
indefinitely unless redeemed by the Company.


10.

Stock-based Compensation

The Company’s Share Option Plan (the “Plan”) provides
for grants of incentive and non-qualified stock options, restricted stock,
stock appreciation rights and performance shares to certain employees and
officers of the Company.

Restricted stock awards are granted at the market
price on the date of grant and vest over a three to five year period.  The Company recognizes the value of
restricted stock as compensation expense based on the Company’s closing stock
price on the NYSE on the date of grant on a straight-line basis over the
vesting period.  As of December 31, 2004,
there are 290,478 restricted shares outstanding, excluding 626,566 shares
issued to the Company’s President in connection with his employment
agreement.  The Company recognized
$4,200,000, $3,239,000 and $914,000 of compensation expense in 2004, 2003 and
2002, respectively, for the portion of these shares that vested during each
year.  Dividends paid on both vested and
unvested shares are charged directly to retained earnings and amounted to
$938,700, $777,700 and $210,100 for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.  Dividends on shares that are cancelled or
terminated prior to vesting are charged to compensation expense in the period
of the cancellation or termination.

Stock options are granted at an exercise price equal
to 100% of the market price of the Company’s stock on the date of grant,
generally vest pro-rata over three to five years and expire 10 years from the
date of grant.  As of December 31, 2004
there are 12,882,014 options outstanding. 
On January 1, 2003, the Company adopted SFAS 123: Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation, as amended by SFAS No. 148: Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation – Transition and Disclosure, on a prospective basis
covering all grants subsequent to 2002. 
Under SFAS No. 123, the Company recognizes compensation expense for the
fair value of options granted on a straight-line basis over the vesting
period.  For the year ended December 31,
2004, and 2003, the Company recognized $102,900 and $77,200 of compensation
expense related to the options granted during 2004 and 2003, respectively.  Grants prior to 2003 are accounted for under
the intrinsic value method under which compensation expense is measured as the
excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the Company’s stock at the date
of grant over the exercise price of the option granted.  As the Company’s policy is to grant options
with an exercise price equal to 100% of the quoted market price on the grant
date, no compensation expense has been recognized for options granted prior to
2003.  If compensation cost for grants
prior to 2003 were recognized as compensation expense based on the fair value
at the grant dates, net income and income per share would have been reduced to the
pro-forma amounts below:


10.          Stock-based Compensation – continued

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the
date of grant using an option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions used for grants in the periods ending December 31, 2004, 2003
and 2002.  There were no stock option
grants during 2004.  In February 2005, as
part of the Company’s annual compensation review for 2004, 1,038,800 stock
options and 73,216 restricted shares were granted to certain employees.  The stock options were granted at an exercise
price equal to 100% of the market price on the date of grant.

A summary of the Plan’s status and changes during the
years then ended, is presented below:

The following table summarizes information about
options outstanding under the Plan at December 31, 2004:

Shares available for future grant
under the plan at december 31, 2004 were 9,955,734, of which 2,500,000 are
subject to shareholder approval.


11.

Retirement Plans

The Company has two defined benefit pension plans, a
Vornado Realty Trust Retirement Plan (“Vornado Plan”) and a Merchandise Mart
Properties Pension Plan (“Mart Plan”). 
In addition, Americold Realty Trust, which is consolidated into the
accounts of the Company beginning November 18, 2004, has two defined benefit
pension plans (the “AmeriCold Plans” and together with the Vornado Plan and the
Mart Plan “the Plans”).  The benefits
under the Vornado Plan and the Mart Plan were frozen in December 1997 and June
1999, respectively.  Effective April
2005, Americold will amend its Americold Retirement Income Plan to freeze
benefits for non-union participants. 
Benefits under the Plans are or were primarily based on years of service
and compensation during employment or on years of credited service and established
monthly benefits.  Funding policy for the
Plans is based on contributions at the minimal amounts required by law.  The financial results of the Plans are
consolidated in the information provided below.

The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for
the Vornado Plan, the Mart Plan and the Americold plans.

Obligations and Funded Status

The following table sets forth the Plans’ funded
status and amounts recognized in the Company’s balance sheets:

(1)

Reflects an
amendment to freeze benefits for non-union participants of Americold Retirement
Income Plan effective April 2005.


11.          Retirement Plans – continued

The Company periodically reviews its assumptions for
the rate of return on each Plan’s assets. 
The assumptions are based primarily on the long-term historical
performance of the assets of the Plans, future expectations for returns for
each asset class as well as target asset allocation of Plan assets.  Differences in the rates of return in the
near term are recognized as gains or losses in the periods that they occur.

Plan Assets

The Company has consistently applied what it believes
to be a conservative investment strategy for the Vornado Plan, investing
primarily in cash and cash equivalents and fixed income funds, including money
market funds, United States treasury bills, government bonds and mortgage back
securities.  Vornado Plan’s weighted-average
asset allocations by asset category are as follows:


11.          Retirement Plans – continued

The Company has consistently applied what it believes
to be an appropriate investment strategy for the Mart Plan, by investing in
mutual funds and funds held by insurance companies.  Mart Plan’s weighted average asset
allocations by asset category are as follows:

The Americold Plans are invested to maximize return on
the Plans’ assets while minimizing risk by diversifying across a broad range of
asset classes.  In accordance with the
Plans’ investment strategies, assets are invested domestic equities, hedge
funds, and fixed income securities.

The allocations of Americold Plan investments by fair
value for the year ended December 31, 2004, are as follows:

Cash Flows

The Company expects to contribute $8,448,000 to the
Plans in 2005.

Estimated Future Benefit Payments

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected
future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:


12.          Leases

As lessor:

The Company leases space to tenants under operating
leases. Most of the leases provide for the payment of fixed base rentals
payable monthly in advance. Shopping center leases provide for the pass-through
to tenants of real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance. Office building
leases generally require the tenants to reimburse the Company for operating
costs and real estate taxes above their base year costs. Shopping center leases
also provide for the payment by the lessee of additional rent based on a
percentage of the tenants’ sales. As of December 31, 2004, future base
rental revenue under non-cancelable operating leases, excluding rents for
leases with an original term of less than one year and rents resulting from the
exercise of renewal options, is as follows:

These amounts do not include rentals based on tenants’
sales.  These percentage rents
approximated $5,563,000, $3,662,000, and $1,832,000, for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002.

Except for the U.S. Government, which accounted for
12.5% of the Company’s revenue, none of the Company’s tenants represented more
than 10% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004.

Former
Bradlees Locations

Pursuant to the Master Agreement and Guaranty, dated
May 1, 1992, the Company is due $5,000,000 per annum of additional rent from
Stop & Shop which was allocated to certain of Bradlees former
locations.  In December 31, 2002,
prior to the expiration of the leases to which the additional rent was
allocated, the Company reallocated this rent to other former Bradlees leases also
guaranteed by Stop & Shop.  Stop
& Shop is contesting the Company’s right to reallocate and claims the
Company is no longer entitled to the additional rent.  At December 31, 2004, the Company is due an
aggregate of $10,497,000.  The Company
believes the additional rent provision of the guaranty expires at the earliest
in 2012 and is vigorously contesting Stop & Shop’s position.


12.          Leases – continued

As lessee:

The Company is a tenant under operating leases for
certain properties. These leases have terms that expire during the next thirty
years.  Future minimum lease payments
under operating leases at December 31, 2004, are as follows:

Rent expense was $21,334,000,
$15,593,000, and $17,157,000 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003,
and 2002.

The Company is also a lessee under capital leases for
equipment and real estate (primarily Americold).  Lease terms generally range from 5-20 years
with renewal or purchase options. 
Capitalized leases are recorded at the present value of future minimum
lease payments or the fair market value of the property.  Capitalized leases are depreciated on a
straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or life of the related
lease, whichever is shorter. 
Amortization expense on capital leases is included in “depreciation and
amortization” on the Company’s consolidated statements of income.  As of December 31, 2004, future minimum lease
payments under capital leases are as follows:

At December 31, 2004 and 2003, $54,261,000 and
$6,920,000 representing the present value of net minimum payments is included
in “Other Liabilities” on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.  At December 31, 2004 and 2003, property
leased under capital leases had a total cost of $64,974,000 and $6,184,000 and
related accumulated depreciation of $11,495,000 and $940,000, respectively.


13.          Commitments and Contingencies

At December 31, 2004, the Company has $567,851,000
available under its $600,000,000 revolving credit facility (

$32,149,000

was utilized for letters of
credit), which matures in July 2006.

In conjunction with the closing of Alexander’s
Lexington Avenue construction loan on July 3, 2002, the Company agreed to
guarantee to the construction lender, the lien free, timely completion of the
construction of the project and funding of all project costs in excess of a
stated budget, as defined in the loan agreement, if not funded by Alexander’s
(see Note 5 – Investments in Partially-Owned Entities).

Each of the Company’s properties has been subjected to
varying degrees of environmental assessment at various times. The environmental
assessments did not reveal any material environmental contamination. However,
there can be no assurance that the identification of new areas of
contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, the discovery
of additional sites, or changes in cleanup requirements would not result in
significant costs to the Company.

The Company carries comprehensive liability and all
risk property insurance ((i) fire, (ii) flood, (iii) extended coverage, (iv)
“acts of terrorism” as defined in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002
which expires in 2005 and (v) rental loss insurance) with respect to its
assets.  In April 2004, the Company
renewed its all risk policies and increased its coverage for Acts of Terrorism
for each of its New York Office, CESCR Office, Retail and Merchandise Mart
divisions.  Below is a summary of the
current all risk property insurance and terrorism risk insurance for each of
the Company’s business segments:

(1)

Limited as to terrorism insurance by the sub-limit
shown in the adjacent column.

In addition to the coverage above, the Company carries
lesser amounts of coverage for terrorist acts not covered by the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Act of 2002.

The Company’s debt instruments, consisting of mortgage
loans secured by its properties (which are generally non-recourse to the
Company), its senior unsecured notes due 2007, 2009 and 2010 and its revolving
credit agreement, contain customary covenants requiring the Company to maintain
insurance.  Although the Company believes
that it has adequate insurance coverage under these agreements, the Company may
not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the
future.  Further, if lenders insist on
greater coverage than the Company is able to obtain, or if the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Act of 2002 is not extended, it could adversely affect the Company’s
ability to finance and/or refinance its properties and expand its portfolio.

From time to time, the Company has disposed of
substantial amounts of real estate to third parties for which, as to certain
properties, it remains contingently liable for rent payments or mortgage
indebtedness that cannot be quantified by the Company.

There are various legal actions against the Company in
the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, after
consultation with legal counsel, the outcome of such matters will not have a
material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or
cash flow.

The Company enters into agreements for the purchase
and resale of U.S. government obligations for periods of up to one week. The
obligations purchased under these agreements are held in safekeeping in the
name of the Company by various money center banks. The Company has the right to
demand additional collateral or return of these invested funds at any time the
collateral value is less than 102% of the invested funds plus any accrued
earnings thereon.  The Company had
$23,110,000 and $30,310,000 of cash invested in these agreements at December
31, 2004 and 2003.


14.          Related Party Transactions

Loan and Compensation
Agreements

In accordance with the terms of the employment
arrangement with Steven Roth, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, and
subject to a letter agreement dated November 1999, Mr. Roth may draw up to
$15,000,000 of loans on a revolving basis. 
Each loan bears interest, payable quarterly, at the applicable Federal
rate on the date the loan is made and matures on the sixth anniversary of such
loan.  Loans are collateralized by assets
with a value of not less than two times the amount outstanding.  At December 31, 2004, the outstanding balance
under this arrangement was $13,122,500 (of which $4,704,500 is shown as a
reduction in shareholders’ equity).  The
amount outstanding matures in January 2006 and bears interest at a weighted
average rate of 4.49% per annum.

At December 31, 2004, the balance of the loan due from
Michael Fascitelli, the Company’s President, in accordance with his employment
agreement was $8,600,000.  The loan
matures in December 2006 and bears interest, payable quarterly, at a
weighted average rate of 3.97% (based on the applicable Federal rate).

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company extended its
employment agreement with Mr. Fascitelli for a five-year period through
December 31, 2006.  Pursuant to the
extended employment agreement, Mr. Fascitelli is entitled to receive a deferred
payment on December 31, 2006 of 626,566 Vornado common shares which are valued
for compensation purposes at $27,500,000 (the value of the shares on March 8,
2002, the date the extended employment agreement was executed).  The shares are held in a rabbi trust for the
benefit of Mr. Fascitelli and vested 100% on December 31, 2002.  The extended employment agreement does not
permit diversification, allows settlement of the deferred compensation
obligation by delivery of these shares only, and permits the deferred delivery
of these shares.  The value of these
shares was amortized ratably over the one-year vesting period as compensation
expense.  The assets of the rabbi trust
are consolidated with those of the Company and the Company’s common shares held
in the trust are classified in shareholders’ equity and accounted for in a
manner similar to treasury stock.

Pursuant to the Company’s annual compensation review
in February 2002 with Joseph Macnow, the Company’s Chief Financial
Officer, the Compensation Committee approved a $2,000,000 loan to
Mr. Macnow, bearing interest at the applicable federal rate of 4.65% per
annum and due in June 2007.  The loan was
funded on July 23, 2002 and is collateralized by assets with a value of
not less than two times the loan amount.

On March 11, 2004, the Company
loaned $2,000,000 to Melvyn Blum, an executive officer of the Company, pursuant
to the revolving credit facility contained in his January 2000 employment
agreement.  The loan bears interest at
1.57% per annum (the Federal rate) and is due in March 2007.

On February 22, 2005, the Company and Sandeep Mathrani,
Executive Vice President – Retail Division, entered into a new employment
agreement.  Pursuant to the agreement,
the Company granted Mr. Mathrani (i) 16,836 restricted shares of the Company’s
stock, (ii) stock options to acquire 300,000 of the Company’s common shares at
an exercise price of $71.275 per share and (iii) the right to receive 200,000
stock options over the next two years at the then prevailing market price.  In addition, Mr. Mathrani repaid the $500,000
loan the Company provided him under his prior employment agreement.


14.          Related Party Transactions – continued

Transactions with Affiliates and Officers and Trustees of
the Company

Alexander’s

The Company owns 33% of Alexander’s.  Mr. Roth and Mr. Fascitelli are
Officers and Directors of Alexander’s. 
The Company provides various services to Alexander’s in accordance with
management, development and leasing agreements and the Company has made loans
to Alexander’s aggregating $124,000,000 at December 31, 2004.  See Note – 5 Investments in
Partially-Owned Entities for details of these agreements.  In addition, in 2002, the Company sold air rights
to Alexander’s, details of which are provided in Note 3 – Acquisitions and
Dispositions.

Interstate
Properties

As of December 31, 2004, Interstate Properties
and its partners owned approximately 10.8% of the common shares of beneficial
interest of the Company and 27.4% of Alexander’s common stock.  Interstate Properties is a general
partnership in which Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B.
Wight, Jr. are the partners. 
Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
of the Company, the managing general partner of Interstate Properties, and the
Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alexander’s.  Messrs. Mandelbaum and Wight are trustees of
the Company and also directors of Alexander’s.

The Company
manages and leases the real estate assets of Interstate Properties pursuant to
a management agreement for which the Company receives an annual fee equal to 4%
of base rent and percentage rent.  The
management agreement has a term of one year and is automatically renewable
unless terminated by either of the parties on sixty days’ notice at the end of
the term. Although the management agreement was not negotiated at arm’s length,
the Company believes based upon comparable fees charged by other real estate
companies that its terms are fair to the Company. The Company earned $726,000,
$703,000 and $747,000 of management fees under the management agreement for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002. 
In addition, during fiscal years 2003 and 2002, as a result of a
previously existing leasing arrangement with Alexander’s, Alexander’s paid to
Interstate $587,000 and $703,000, respectively, for the leasing an other
services actually rendered by the Company. 
Upon receipt of these payments, Interstate promptly paid them over to the
Company without retaining any interest therein. 
This arrangement was terminated at the end of 2003 and all payments by
Alexander’s thereafter for these leasing and other services are made directly
to the Company.

Vornado Operating
Company (“ Vornado Operating”)

In October 1998, Vornado Operating was spun off from
the Company in order to own assets that the Company could not itself own and
conduct activities that the Company could not itself conduct.  Vornado Operating’s primary asset was its 60%
investment in AmeriCold Logistics, which leased 88 refrigerated warehouses from
Americold, owned 60% by the Company.  The
Company granted Vornado Operating a $75,000,000 unsecured revolving credit
facility that was to expire on December 31, 2004.  Borrowings under the revolving credit
facility bore interest at LIBOR plus 3%. 
The Company received a commitment fee equal to 1% per annum on the
average daily unused portion of the facility. 
At the time of its dissolution referred to below, Vornado Operating had
outstanding 4,068,924 shares and its operating partnership had outstanding
447,017 units.  At such time, trustees
and officers of the Company held approximately 24.3% of the common shares and
units of Vornado Operating.  In addition,
Messrs. Roth, Fascitelli, Macnow, Wight and West each served as an officer
and/or director of Vornado Operating.

On December 31, 2002, the Company and Crescent Real
Estate Equities formed a joint venture to acquire the Carthage, Missouri and
Kansas City, Kansas quarries from AmeriCold Logistics for $20,000,000 in cash
(appraised value).  The Company
contributed cash of $8,800,000 to the joint venture representing its 44%
interest.  AmeriCold Logistics used the
proceeds from the sale to repay a portion of a loan to Vornado Operating.  Vornado Operating then repaid $9,500,000 of
the amount outstanding under the Company’s revolving credit facility.   In addition, during 2004 and 2003, this
joint venture acquired $21,930,000 and $5,720,000 of trade receivables from
AmeriCold Logistics for $21,500,000 and $5,606,000, respectively.  These receivables were subsequently collected
in full.

On November 4, 2004, Americold purchased its tenant,
AmeriCold Logistics, for $47,700,000 in cash. 
As part of this transaction, Vornado Operating repaid the $21,989,000
balance of the loan to the Company as well as $4,771,000 of unpaid
interest.  Because the Company fully
reserved for the interest income on this loan beginning in January 2002, it
recognized $4,771,000 of income upon collection in the fourth quarter 2004.


14.          Related Party Transactions – continued

In November 2004, a class action shareholder derivative lawsuit was
brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery against Vornado Operating Company
(“Vornado Operating”), its directors and the Company.  The lawsuit sought to enjoin the dissolution
of Vornado Operating, rescind the previously completed sale of AmeriCold
Logistics (owned 60% by Vornado Operating) to Americold Realty Trust (owned 60%
by the Company) and damages.  In
addition, the plaintiffs claimed that the Vornado Operating directors breached
their fiduciary duties.  On November 24,
2004, a stipulation of settlement was entered into under which the Company
agreed to settle the lawsuit with a payment of approximately $4.5 million or
about $1 per Vornado Operating share or partnership unit before litigation
expenses. The proposed settlement payment would be in addition to the
liquidation distribution of $2 per Vornado Operating share or unit that Vornado
Operating made to its equity-holders when it dissolved on December 29,
2004.  On January 20, 2005, the Delaware
Court of Chancery postponed deciding upon the proposed settlement and requested

further but limited
information before holding an additional hearing regarding the settlement,
which has been scheduled for March 2005. 
The Company has accrued the proposed settlement payment and
related legal costs as part of “general and administrative expense” in the
fourth quarter of 2004.  The Company believes that the ultimate outcome
of this matter will not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.

Other

On January 1, 2003, the Company acquired BMS, a company which
provides cleaning and related services principally to the Company’s Manhattan
office properties, for $13,000,000 in cash from the estate of
Bernard Mendik and certain other individuals including David R. Greenbaum,
an executive officer of the Company.  The
Company paid BMS $53,024,000, for the year ended December 31, 2002 for
services rendered to the Company’s Manhattan office properties.  Although the terms and conditions of the
contracts pursuant to which these services were provided were not negotiated at
arms length, the Company believes based upon comparable amounts charged to
other real estate companies that the terms and conditions of the contracts were
fair to the Company.

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of 2101 L
Street, a 370,000 square foot office building located in Washington D.C.  The consideration for the acquisition
consisted of approximately 1.1 million newly issued Operating Partnership units
(valued at approximately $49,517,000) and the assumption of existing mortgage debt
and transaction costs totaling approximately $32,000,000.  Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod,
trustees of Vornado, together with family members owned approximately 24
percent of the limited partnership that sold the building and Mr. Smith was a general
partner.  On August 5, 2003, the
Company repaid the mortgage of $29,056,000.

On October 7, 2003, the Company acquired a 2.5% interest in the
planned redevelopment of Waterfront (described in Note 3 – Acquisitions and
Dispositions) for $2,171,000, of which the Company paid $1,545,000 in cash and
issued 12,500 Operating Partnership units valued at $626,000.  The partnership units were issued to
Mitchell N. Schear, one of the partners in the Waterfront interest, and
the President of the Company’s CESCR division.

On
July 1, 2004, the Company acquired the Marriott hotel located in its Crystal
City office complex from a limited partnership in which Robert H. Smith and
Robert P. Kogod, trustees of the Company, together with family members own
approximately 67 percent.  The purchase
price was $21,500,000.

On
October 1, 2004, the Company increased its ownership interest in the Investment
Building in Washington, D.C. to 5% by acquiring an additional 2.8% interest for
$2,240,000 in cash.  The Company’s
original interest in the property was acquired in connection with the
acquisition of the Kaempfer Company in April 2003.  Mitchell N. Schear, President of the
Company’s CESCR division and other former members of Kaempfer management were
also partners in the Investment Building partnership.

During 2002, the Company paid $147,000 for legal services to a firm in
which one of the Company’s trustees is a member.


15.          Minority Interest

The minority interest represents limited partners’, other than the
Company, interests in the Operating Partnership and are comprised of:

(1)

The Class A units are redeemable at the
option of the holder for common shares of Vornado Realty Trust on a one-for-one
basis, or at the Company’s option for cash.

(2)

In February 2004, all of the Series E-1
units were converted into 5,679,727 Vornado common shares.

(3)

The holders of the Series F-1 preferred
units have the right to require the Company to redeem the units for cash equal
to the liquidation preference or, at the Company’s option, by issuing a
variable number of Vornado common shares with a value equal to the liquidation
value.  On July 1, 2003, upon the
adoption of SFAS No. 150: Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity, the Company was required to
include the liquidation value of these F-1 preferred units as a liability on
the consolidated balance sheet as opposed to their prior classification as
minority interest because of the possible settlement of this obligation by
issuing a variable number of the Company’s common shares.  In addition, after July 1, 2003,
distributions to the holders of the   F-1
preferred units are included as a component of interest expense as opposed to
their prior classification as minority interest expense.

(4)

Convertible at the option of the holder
for an equivalent amount of the Company’s preferred shares and redeemable at
the Company’s option after the 5th anniversary of the date of issuance (ranging
from September 2004 to December 2009).

(5)

The Company redeemed all of its 8.375%
Series D-2 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units on January 6, 2004
at a redemption price equal to $50 per unit or an aggregate of
$27.5 million.

(6)

On December 30, 2004, the Company sold
$46.7 million of 3.0% Series D-13 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.
The Series D-13 units may be called without penalty at the option of the
Company commencing in December 2011 or redeemed at the option of the holder
commencing in December 2006 for cash equal to the liquidation preference of $25
per unit, or at the Company’s option by issuing a variable number of Vornado’s
common shares.  Under SFAS No. 150, the
Company classifies the Series D-13 units as a liability, and related
distributions as interest expense, because of the possible settlement of this
obligation by issuing a variable number of the Company’s common shares.


16.          Income Per Share

The following table provides a reconciliation of both net income and
the number of common shares used in the computation of (i) basic income per
common share - which utilizes the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding without regard to dilutive potential common shares, and (ii)
diluted income per common share - which includes the weighted average common
shares and dilutive share equivalents. 
Potential dilutive share equivalents include the Company’s Series A
Convertible Preferred shares as well as Vornado Realty L.P.’s convertible
preferred units.


17.          Summary of Quarterly Results
(Unaudited)

The following summary represents the results of operations for each
quarter in 2004, 2003 and 2002:

(1)

The total for the year may differ from
the sum of the quarters as a result of weighting.

(2)

Includes (i) a net gain on mark-to-market
of Sears option shares of $81,730, (ii) net gains on exercise and
mark-to-market of GMH warrants of $53,642 and (iii) a net gain on sale of a
portion of its investment in Americold to Yucaipa of $18,789.

(3)

Includes net gains on sale of real estate
of $75,755 in 2004 and $161,789 in 2003.

18.          Costs of Acquisitions and Development
Not Consummated

In the third quarter of 2004, the Company wrote-off $1,475,000 of costs
associated with the Mervyn’s Department Stores acquisition not consummated.

In 2002, the Company had a 70% interest in a joint venture to develop
an office tower over the Port Authority Bus Terminal in New York
City.  Market conditions existing in 2002
resulted in the joint venture writing off $9,700,000, representing all
pre-development costs capitalized to date, of which the Company’s share is
$6,874,000.


19.          Segment Information

The Company has

four
business segments: Office, Retail, Merchandise Mart Properties and Temperature
Controlled Logistics.  In 2004, the
Company revised how it presents EBITDA, a measure of performance of its
segments, and has revised the disclosure for all periods presented.  EBITDA as disclosed represents “Earnings
before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization.”  This change is consistent with the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s Regulation G.

See
notes on page 158.


19.          Segment Information – continued

See notes on page 158.


19.          Segment Information – continued

See notes on following page.


19.          Segment Information – continued

Notes to
preceding tabular information:

(1)

Management considers EBITDA a
supplemental measure for making decisions and assessing the performance of its
segments.  EBITDA should not be
considered a substitute for net income. 
EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by
other companies.

(2)

Interest and debt expense and
depreciation and amortization included in the reconciliation of net income to
EBITDA reflects amounts which are netted in income from partially-owned
entities.

(3)

Operating results for the year ended
December 31, 2004, reflect the consolidation of the Company’s investment in
Americold beginning on November 18, 2004. 
Previously, this investment was accounted for on the equity method.

(4)

Other EBITDA is comprised of:


20.          Subsequent Events

On February 3, 2005, the Company supplied $135,000,000 of financing to
Riley Holdco Corp, an entity formed to complete the acquisition of LNR Property
Corporation (NYSE:LNR).  Riley Holdco
Corp. is a wholly owned subsidiary of LNR Property Holdings, Ltd., which is 75%
owned by funds and accounts managed by Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. and
its real estate affiliate Blackacre Institutional Capital Management, LLC.  The terms of the financings are as follows:  (i) $60,000,000 of a $325,000,000 mezzanine
tranche of a $2.4 billion credit facility which is secured by certain equity
interests.  This tranche is junior to
$1.9 billion of the credit facility, bears interest at LIBOR plus 5.25%,
and matures in February 2008 with two one-year extensions; and (ii) $75,000,000
of $400,000,000 of unsecured notes which are subordinate to the
$2.4 billion credit facility and senior to over $700,000,000 of equity
contributed to finance the acquisition. 
These notes mature in February 2015, provide for a 1.5% placement
fee, and bear interest at 10% for the first five years and 11% for years six
through ten.

On February 4, 2005, the Company acquired from JER Investors Trust a
$17,000,000 participation in a $34,000,000 mezzanine loan secured by Roney
Palace Phase II, in Miami Beach, Florida, a 593-room hotel to be converted to
residential condominiums.  The loan,
which is subordinate to $141,000,000 of other debt, bears interest at LIBOR
plus 9.53%, until 25% of the loan is repaid and LIBOR plus 7.48% thereafter
until maturity in October 2006.  The loan
has a one-year extension option.


ITEM
9.

CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.   CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures: 
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness
of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as
of the end of the period covered by this annual report on Form 10-K.  Based on such evaluation, the Company’s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the
end of such period, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are
effective.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting:  There have not been any changes in the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)
during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year to which this report relates that
have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING

Management of Vornado Realty Trust, together with its consolidated
subsidiaries (the “Company”), is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting.  The Company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the Company’s
principal executive and principal financial officers to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of the Company’s financial statements for external reporting purposes in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

As of December 31, 2004, management conducted an assessment of the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based
on the framework established in

Internal Control –
Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Our assessment excluded the internal control
over financial reporting at Americold Realty Trust, which acquired AmeriCold
Logistics on November 4, 2004 and which the Company began to consolidate on
November 18, 2004 and whose financial statements reflect total assets and
revenues constituting 10.2 and 5.1 percent, respectively, of the related
consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December
31, 2004.  Based on this assessment,
management has determined that the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2004 is effective.

Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies and
procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets;
provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the trustees of
the Company; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s
assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 has been audited by
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as
stated in their report appearing on page 161 which expresses unqualified
opinions on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Shareholders and Board of Trustees

Vornado Realty Trust

New York, New York

We have audited management’s assessment, included within this December
31, 2004 Form 10-K of Vornado Realty Trust at Item 9A. under the heading “Management’s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,” that Vornado Realty
Trust, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on criteria established in “

Internal
Control—Integrated Framework

” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
As described in “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting,” management excluded from their assessment the internal control over
financial reporting at Americold Realty Trust, which acquired AmeriCold
Logistics on November 4, 2004 and which the Company began to consolidate on
November 18, 2004 and whose financial statements reflect total assets and
revenues constituting 10.2 and 5.1 percent, respectively, of the related
consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December
31, 2004.  Accordingly, our audit did not
include the internal control over financial reporting at Americold Realty
Trust.  The Company’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based
on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.  Our audit included obtaining
an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. 
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and
principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and
effected by the company’s board of trustees, management, and other personnel to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial
reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be
prevented or detected on a timely basis. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal
control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that
the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that the Company maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is
fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2004, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), consolidated balance sheet
as of December 31, 2004 and the related consolidated statements of income,
shareholders’ equity and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2004 and
the related financial statement schedules as of and for the year ended December
31, 2004 of the Company and our report dated February 24, 2005 expressed an
unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement
schedules.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

February 24, 2005


ITEM 9B.   OTHER
INFORMATION

As of February 8, 2005, the Company's Compensation Committee
approved a grant, pursuant to the Company's 2002 Omnibus Share Plan, of
1,038,800 stock options and 73,081 shares of restricted stock to executive
officers and certain employees of the Company. 
The stock options have an exercise price of $71.275 per share and vest
over three to five years.  The shares of
restricted stock vest over five years. 
Included with this annual report on Form 10-K as exhibits 10.77 and 10.78,
respectively, are the form of stock option and restricted stock agreements and
such forms are incorporated in this Item 9B.

PART III

ITEM
10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
THE REGISTRANT

Information relating to trustees of the Registrant, including its audit
committee and audit committee financial expert, will be contained in a
definitive Proxy Statement involving the election of trustees under the caption
“Election of Trustees” which the Registrant will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 not later than 120 days after December 31, 2004, and
such information is incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to
Executive Officers of the Registrant, appears at page 49 of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.  Also incorporated herein
by reference is the information under the caption “Other Matters – 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” of the Proxy Statement.

The Registrant has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that
applies to, among others, Steven Roth, its principal executive officer, and
Joseph Macnow, its principal financial and accounting officer.  This Code is available on the Company’s
website at www.vno.com.

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information relating to executive compensation will be contained in the
Proxy Statement referred to above in Item 10, “Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant,” under the caption “Executive Compensation” and
such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM
12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in
Item 10, “Di

r

ectors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant,” under the caption “Principal
Security Holders” and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Equity compensation plan information

The following table provides information as of December 31, 2004,
regarding the Company’s equity compensation plans.

(1)

Includes 290,478 restricted shares which do not have
an option exercise price.

(2)

All of the shares available for future issuance under
plans approved by the security holders may be issued as restricted stock units
or performance shares.

(3)

Does not include common shares issuable in exchange
for deferred stock units pursuant to the compensation agreements described
below under the heading “Material Features of Equity Compensation Arrangements
Not Approved by Shareholders.”

Material
Features of Equity Compensation Arrangements Not Approved by Shareholders

We have awarded deferred stock units under individual
arrangements with two of our employees. 
Shareholder approval was not required for these awards under the current
or then-existing rules of the New York Stock Exchange because the awards were
made as an inducement to these employees to enter into employment contracts
with us.


We awarded Melvyn Blum
148,148 deferred stock units pursuant to an agreement dated as of December 29,
2000.  In addition, Mr. Blum’s agreement
requires the Company to provide an effective registration statement covering
any common shares distributed to Mr. Blum. 
Pursuant to an amendment to this agreement dated as of February 13,
2003, we agreed to pay Mr. Blum an amount in cash equal to the market value of
88,889 common shares in respect of the deferred units that had vested under his
agreement as of such date.  On January 2,
2005, all of Mr. Blum’s remaining unvested deferred stock units vested and he
received the remaining shares attributable to the units.  Pursuant to a requirement under his
employment agreement, all of Mr. Blum’s shares received with respect to
deferred stock units were registered for sale pursuant to a registration
statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for which the
prospectus was filed April 12, 2004.

ITEM
13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS

Information relating to certain relationships and related transactions
will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10, “Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant,” under the caption “Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions” and such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM
14.   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND
SERVICES

Information relating to Principal Accountant fees and services will be
contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10, “Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant” under the caption “Principal Accountant
Fees and Services” and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM
15.   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES

(a)     The following documents
are filed as part of this report:

1.

The
consolidated financial statements are set forth in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

The following financial statement schedules should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

II—Valuation and
  Qualifying Accounts—years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002


III—Real
  Estate and Accumulated Depreciation as of December 31, 2004


Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are
not applicable or the information required is included in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.

The following exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are filed with this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the require

m

ents of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

December 31, 2004

(1)

Beginning
on November 18, 2004, the Company consolidates its investment in Americold
Realty Trust.  Accordingly, additions
charged against operations includes $3,106, which represents Americold’s
allowance for doubtful accounts on such date.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE III

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2004

(Amounts in thousands)










*  These encumbrances, are cross collateralized
under a blanket mortgage in the amount of $476,603 as December 31, 2004.

Notes:

(1)   Initial cost is cost as of January 30, 1982
(the date on which Vornado commenced real estate operations) unless acquired
subsequent to that date – see Column H.

(2)   The net basis of the company’s assets and
liabilities for tax purposes is approximately $3,139,148,000 lower than the
amount reported for financial statement purposes.

(3)   Date of original construction – many
properties have had substantial renovation or additional construction – see
Column D.

(4)   Buildings on these properties were
demolished.  As a result, the cost of the
buildings and improvements, net of accumulated depreciation, were either
transferred to land or written-off.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE III

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION

(AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

The following is a reconciliation of real estate assets and accumulated
depreciation:


EXHIBIT INDEX

*

Incorporated
by reference.


*

Incorporated
by reference.


*

Incorporated
by reference.


*

Incorporated
by reference.


*

Incorporated
by reference.



*

Incorporated
by reference.

**

Management
contract or compensatory agreement.


*

Incorporated
by reference.


*

Incorporated
by reference.

**

Management
contract or compensatory agreement.


*

Incorporated
by reference.

**

Management
contract or compensatory agreement.


*

Incorporated
by reference.

**

Management
contract or compensatory agreement.


*

Incorporated
by reference.

**

Management
contract or compensatory agreement.


189