10-K


a04-1866_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON,
D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ý

ANNUAL REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended:
       December 31, 2003

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from
                 
to

Commission File Number:
     1-11954

VORNADO
REALTY TRUST

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number including area
code:

(212)
894-7000

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES

ý

NO

o

Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).  YES

ý

NO

o

Aggregate market
value of the voting and non-voting common shares held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, i.e. by persons other than officers and trustees of Vornado Realty
Trust as reflected in the table in Item 12 of this Form 10-K at
June 30, 2003 was $3,549,034,000.

As of February 16,
2004, there were 119,254,006 of the registrant’s common shares of beneficial
interest outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by
Reference

Part
III

:  Portions of
Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 27, 2004.


(1)

The
Registrant will file a definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation 14A
involving the election of trustees with the Securities and Exchange Commission
not later than 120 days after December 31, 2003, portions of which are
incorporated by reference herein. Information relating to Executive Officers of
the Registrant appears on page 61 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements contained herein constitute forward-looking
statements as such term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).  Forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of performance.  Our future
results, financial condition and business may differ materially from those
expressed in these forward-looking statements.   You can find many of these statements by looking for words such
as “plans,” “intends,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “believes” or
similar expressions in this annual report on Form 10-K.  These forward-looking statements are subject
to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties.  Many of the factors that will determine these items are beyond
our ability to control or predict.  For
further discussion of these factors see “Item 1. Business – Certain Factors
That May Adversely Affect Our Business and Operations” in this annual report on
Form 10-K.

For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking
statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995.  You are cautioned not to place
undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the
date of this annual report on Form 10-K or the date of any document
incorporated by reference.  All
subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or
any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by
the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section.  We do not undertake any obligation to
release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect
events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-K.


PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated real estate investment trust
(“REIT”).  Vornado conducts its business
through Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the “Operating
Partnership”).  Vornado is the sole
general partner of, and owned approximately 82% of the limited partnership
interest in, the Operating Partnership at February 16, 2004. All
references to “We,” “Us,”  “Company” and
“Vornado” refer to Vornado Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries,
including the Operating Partnership.

The Company currently owns directly or indirectly:

Office Properties (“Office”

):

(i)

all
or portions of 83 office properties aggregating approximately 27.3 million
square feet in the New York City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) and in
the Washington D.C. and Northern Virginia area;

Retail Properties (“Retail”)

:

(ii)

retail properties in six states and Puerto Rico aggregating approximately 12.9
million square feet, including 2.7 million square feet built by tenants on land
leased from the Company;

Merchandise Mart Properties

:

(iii)

8.6 million square feet of showroom and
office space, including the 3.4 million square foot Merchandise Mart in
Chicago;

Temperature Controlled Logistics

:

(iv)

a
60% interest in the Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership that owns 87 cold
storage warehouses nationwide with an aggregate of approximately 440.7 million
cubic feet of refrigerated space leased to AmeriCold Logistics;

Other Real Estate Investments

:

(v)

33.1%
of the outstanding common stock of Alexander’s, Inc. (“Alexander’s”);

(vi)

the
Hotel Pennsylvania in New York City consisting of a hotel portion containing
1.0 million square feet with 1,700 rooms and a commercial portion
containing .4 million square feet of retail and office space;

(vii)

a 22.6% interest in The Newkirk Master Limited
Partnership (“Newkirk MLP”) which owns office, retail and industrial properties
net leased primarily to credit rated tenants, and various debt interests in
such properties;

(viii)

eight dry warehouse/industrial properties in
New Jersey containing approximately 2.0 million square feet; and

(ix)

other
investments, including interests in other real estate, loans and notes
receivable and marketable securities.


OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY

Our business objective is to maximize shareholder value.  We intend to achieve this objective by
continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and executing our operating
strategies through:

•

Maintaining
a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an
entrepreneurial spirit;

•

Investing in properties in select markets, such
as New York City and Washington, D.C., where we believe there is high
likelihood of capital appreciation;

•

Acquiring quality properties at a discount to
replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents;

•

Investing in retail properties in select
under-stored locations such as the New York City metropolitan area;

•

Investing in fully integrated operating companies
that have a significant real estate component with qualified, experienced
operating management and strong growth potential which can benefit from our
access to efficient capital;

•

Developing/redeveloping our existing properties
to increase returns and maximize value; and

•

On occasion, providing specialty financing to
real estate companies.

We expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using
internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by accessing
the public and private capital markets.


ACQUISITIONS

Building Maintenance Service Company (“BMS”)

On January 1, 2003, the Company acquired for $13,000,000 in cash
BMS, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services principally to
the Company’s Manhattan office properties. 
This company was previously owned by the estate of Bernard Mendik
and certain other individuals including David R. Greenbaum, one of the
Company’s executive officers.

Kaempfer Company
(“Kaempfer”)

On April 9, 2003, the Company acquired Kaempfer which owns partial
interests in six Class “A” office properties in Washington D.C. containing
1.8 million square feet, manages and leases these properties and four others
for which it receives customary fees and has options to acquire certain other
real estate interests, including the Waterfront project discussed below.  Kaempfer’s equity interest in the properties
approximates 5.0%.  The aggregate
purchase price for the equity interests and the management and leasing business
was $32,200,000 (consisting of $28,600,000 in cash and approximately
99,300 Operating Partnership units valued at $3,600,000) and may be increased
by up to $9,000,000 based on the performance of the management company.

On October 7, 2003, the Company acquired a 2.5% interest in the
planned redevelopment of Waterfront, located at 401 M Street, a mixed-use
project in Washington D.C. (the “Waterfront Interest”) for $2,171,000, of which
the Company paid $1,545,000 in cash and issued 12,500 Operating Partnership
units valued at $626,000.  The
partnership units were issued to Mitchell N. Schear, one of the partners
in the Waterfront interest, who became the President of the Company’s CESCR
division.

20 Broad Street

On May 2, 2003, the Company acquired the remaining 40% of a
78-year leasehold interest in 20 Broad Street it did not already own.  The purchase price was approximately
$30,000,000 in cash.  20 Broad Street
contains 466,000 square feet of office space, of which 348,000 square feet is
leased to the New York Stock Exchange.

2101 L Street

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of 2101 L
Street, a 370,000 square foot office building located in Washington D.C.  The consideration for the acquisition
consisted of approximately 1.1 million newly issued Operating Partnership units
(valued at approximately $49,517,000) and the assumption of existing mortgage
debt and transaction costs totaling approximately $32,000,000.  Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod,
trustees of Vornado, together with family members owned approximately 24
percent of the limited partnership that sold the building and Mr. Smith was a
general partner.  On August 5,
2003, the Company repaid the mortgage of $29,056,000.

General Motors Building Mezzanine Loans

On
October 20, 2003, the Company made a $200,000,000 mezzanine loan secured
by partnership interests in the General Motors Building. The General Motors
Building was acquired by Macklowe Properties in September 2003 for approximately
$1.4 billion. Vornado’s loan is subordinate to $900,000,000 of other debt. The
loan is based on a rate of LIBOR plus 8.685% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%) and
currently yields 10.185%.  Further, on
October 30, 2003, the Company made an additional $25,000,000 loan, as part
of a $50,000,000 loan, the balance of which was funded by an affiliate of Soros
Fund Management LLC. This loan, which is junior to the $1.1 billion of loans
noted above, is based on a rate of LIBOR plus 12.81% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%)
and currently yields 14.31%. These loans mature in October 2005, with
three one-year extensions.


Bergen Mall

On December 12, 2003, the Company acquired the Bergen Mall for
approximately $145,000,000. This purchase was funded as part of a
Section 1031 tax-free “like-kind” exchange with a portion of the proceeds
from the sale of the Company’s Two Park Avenue property.  The Bergen Mall is a 903,000 square foot
shopping center located on Route 4 East in Paramus, New Jersey. The center is
anchored by Macy’s, Value City, Marshalls and Off Saks Fifth Avenue.  The Company intends to expand, re-tenant and
redevelop the asset.

Further
details of the Company’s acquisition activities are disclosed in Part II.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report on Form 10-K.

DISPOSITIONS

On June 13, 2003, the Company received its $5,000,000 share of a
settlement with affiliates of Primestone Investment Partners of the
amounts due under the guarantees of the Primestone loans.  In connection therewith, the Company
recognized a $1,388,000 loss on settlement of the guarantees.

On October 10, 2003, the Company sold Two Park Avenue, a
965,000 square foot office building, for $292,000,000 to SEB
Immobilien-Investment GMBH, a German capital investment company, which resulted
in a net gain on the sale after closing costs of $156,433,000.

In addition, the Company sold two strip shopping centers in 2003, for
an aggregate of $7,852,000, which resulted in net gains of $4,589,000.

On February 2, 2004, the Palisades Venture in which the Company
owns a 75% interest entered into an agreement to sell its only asset, a 538
unit high-rise residential apartment tower in Fort Lee, New Jersey, for
$222,500,000.  On February 27,
2004, in order to permit a potential “like kind exchange,” the Company acquired
the remaining 25% interest it did not previously own for its partner’s share of
the net sales price (approximately $17,000,000).  The Company’s gain on sale after closing costs will be
approximately $70,000,000.  The sale,
which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to be completed
by the third quarter of 2004.

Further details of the Company’s dispositions are
disclosed in Part II.  Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report
on Form 10-K.


DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

The Company is currently engaged in various development/redevelopment
projects for which it has budgeted approximately $561.7 million.  Of this amount $111.1 million was expended
in 2003 and $169 million is estimated to be expended in 2004.  Below is a description of these projects.

(1)

In January 2002, when the Company acquired the remaining 66% of
CESCR it did not already own, it estimated that these costs would be
approximately $75.0.

(2)

Subject to governmental approvals.

The Company is also in the pre-development phase of a number of other
projects including (i) retail space in the Penn Plaza area, (ii) repositioning
of the Hotel Pennsylvania, (iii) expansion and redevelopment of the Bergen
Mall, (iv) expansion of Monmouth Mall and (v) renovation of the 2101 L Street
office building.

There can be no assurance that any of the above projects will commence
or be completed on schedule or on budget.


The Company plans to renovate the buildings occupied by the PTO as
their leases expire over the next three years as follows:

Renovations to Crystal Mall One, Crystal Park One, and Crystal Plaza Three
and Four totaling 901,000 square feet will include new restrooms, lobbies,
corridors and elevator modernization. 
In Crystal Plaza Three and Four, the renovations will also include new
mechanical systems.  The portions of
these buildings vacated by the PTO will be taken out of service during
redevelopment which is expected to be completed over a 12 to 18 month
period.  Renovations to the remaining
buildings will consist of common area and exterior renovations to upgrade the
buildings that will not require the buildings to be taken out of service.


OTHER INVESTMENTS

The Company’s other investments are comprised of:

(Amounts in thousands
except per share/unit amounts and square feet)

(1)

The Palisades Joint Venture

The Palisades Joint Venture was formed in 1999 to
develop an 855,000 square foot high-rise residential tower in
Fort Lee, New Jersey, containing 538 apartments.  The joint venture agreement provides for the
Company to contribute 95% of the equity and receive 75% of the net profit after
a 10% preferred return. The Company placed the property into service on
March 1, 2002.  On February 2,
2004, the Palisades Venture entered into an agreement to sell the asset for
$222,500.  On February 27, 2004, in
order to permit a potential “like kind exchange,” the Company acquired the
remaining 25% interest it did not previously own for its partner’s share of the
net sales price (approximately $17,000). 
The Company’s gain on sale after closing costs will be approximately
$70,000.  The sale, which is subject to
customary closing conditions, is expected to be completed by the third quarter
of 2004.

(2)

400 North LaSalle Venture

The 400 North LaSalle joint
venture was formed in July 2001, to develop a 381,000 square foot,
high-rise residential tower with an attached parking garage in Chicago
Illinois, containing 452 apartments. 
Under the venture agreement the Company contributed 92% of the equity
and is entitled to 85% of the profits. 
The development of the residential tower and garage was substantially
completed and fully placed into service as of January 2004.  As of December 31, 2003, the tower is
22.5% occupied.

(3)

Student
Housing

In January 2000, the Company and its joint venture partner
acquired a 252-unit student housing complex in Gainesville, Florida, for
approximately $27,000.  The Company has
a 90% interest in the joint venture.


(4)

Monmouth
Mall Joint Venture

On October 10, 2002, a joint venture in which the Company has a
50% interest acquired the Monmouth Mall, an enclosed super regional
shopping center located in Eatontown, New Jersey containing approximately
1.5 million square feet, including four department stores, three of which
aggregating 719,000 square feet are owned by the tenants.  The Company made a $7,000 common equity
investment in the venture and provided it with $23,500 of preferred equity
yielding 14%.  The venture financed the
purchase of the Mall with $135,000 of floating rate debt at LIBOR plus 2.05%
(with a LIBOR floor of 2.50% on $35,000), a three-year term and
two one-year extension options.

(5)

Starwood Ceruzzi Joint
Venture

The Starwood Ceruzzi Joint Venture in which the Company is an 80%
non-managing partner and Starwood Ceruzzi is the 20% managing partner, was
formed in 2000 to acquire a group of retail fee and leasehold interests in
properties formerly occupied by Hechinger, a home improvement retailer which
was liquidated.  The venture currently
owns one fee interest and four leasehold interests aggregating 500,000 square
feet.  The properties are located in
Pennsylvania, Virginia and Maryland.  In
2001, the venture sold one of the fee interests acquired resulting in a gain of
$1,744 (of which the Company’s share was $1,395).  One of the leasehold interests was net leased to Home Depot in
2002, and the other four sites are currently vacant.

(6)

Capital
Trust Preferred Securities

At December 31, 2003, the Company owns $30,000 of 8.25% step-up
convertible junior subordinated debentures which are convertible into shares of
Class A common stock of Capital Trust (NYSE:CT) at a conversion price
of $7.00 per share.  The securities
are redeemable by Capital Trust, in whole or in part, on or after
September 30, 2004.  Steven Roth,
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado Realty Trust, is
a member of the Board of Directors of Capital Trust, nominated by the
Company.

(7)

General
Motors Building Mezzanine Loans

On October 20, 2003 the Company made a
$200,000 mezzanine loan secured by partnership interests in the General Motors
Building. The General Motors Building was acquired by Macklowe Properties in
September 2003 for approximately $1.4 billion. Vornado’s loan is
subordinate to $900,000 of other debt. The loan is based on a rate of LIBOR
plus 8.685% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%) and currently yields 10.185%.  Further, on October 30, 2003, the
Company made an additional $25,000 loan, as part of a $50,000 loan, the balance
of which was funded by an affiliate of Soros Fund Management LLC. This loan,
which is junior to the $1.1 billion of loans noted above, is based on a rate of
LIBOR plus 12.81% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%) and currently yields 14.31%.
These loans mature in October 2005, with three one-year extensions.

(8)

CAPI

In March 1999, in connection with the Company’s acquisition of
land under certain of the CESCR office properties from CAPI, the Company made a
$41,200 recourse loan to CAPI with interest at 8.5%, which matures in
June 2004.  The loan is secured by
approximately 1,100,000 of the Company’s Series E-1 convertible preferred
units issued to CAPI.  Each
Series E-1 convertible preferred unit is convertible into
1.1364 shares of the Company’s common shares.  At December 31, 2003, the balance of the loan was $38,500.  In February 2004, CAPI converted all of
its Series E-1 units into 5,679,727 Vornado common shares.  Subsequent to the conversion the loan is
secured by 1,250,000 Vornado common shares.


FINANCING ACTIVITIES

On July 3, 2003, the Company entered into a new $600,000,000
unsecured revolving credit facility, which has replaced its $1,000,000,000
unsecured revolving credit facility, which was to mature in
July 2003.  The new facility has a
three-year term, a one-year extension option and bears interest at LIBOR plus
..65%.  The Company also has the ability
under the new facility to seek up to $800 million of commitments during
the facility’s term.  The new facility
contains financial covenants similar to the prior facility.

On November 11, 2003, the Company redeemed all of its 8.5%
Series D-1 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units issued in 1998 at a
redemption price equal to the par value of $25.00 per unit or an aggregate
of $87,500,000 plus accrued distributions of $849,000.  This amount exceeded the carrying amount by
$2,100,000, representing the original issuance costs.  Upon the redemption, these issuance costs were recorded as a
reduction to earnings in arriving at net income applicable to common shares in
accordance with the July 2003 EITF clarification of Topic-D-42.

On November 17, 2003, the Company sold $40,000,000 of 7.00% Series
D-10 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares to an institutional investor in a
registered offering. Immediately prior to that sale, Vornado Realty L.P. sold
$80,000,000 of 7.00% Series D-10 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units to an
institutional investor in a separate private offering. Both the perpetual
Preferred Units and perpetual Preferred Shares may be called without penalty at
the option of the Company commencing in November 2008.

On November 25, 2003, the Company completed an offering of
$200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior unsecured notes
due December 1, 2010.  Interest on
the notes is payable semi-annually on June 1st and December 1st,
commencing in 2004.  The notes were
priced at 99.869% of their face amount to yield 4.772%. The notes contain the
same financial covenants that are in the Company’s notes issued in
June 2002, except the maximum ratio of secured debt to total assets is now
50% (previously 55%).  The net proceeds
of approximately $198,500,000 were used primarily to repay existing mortgage
debt.

Further details of the Company’s financing activities are disclosed in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations in Part II of this annual report on Form 10-K.

At December 31, 2003, the ratio of debt-to-enterprise value
(market equity value plus debt less cash) was 35% based on debt of $5.115 billion,
including the Company’s proportionate share of debt of partially-owned
non-consolidated entities.  In the
future, in connection with the Company’s strategy for growth, this percentage
may change.  The Company’s policy
concerning the incurrence of debt may be reviewed and modified from time to
time without the vote of shareholders.

The Company may seek to obtain funds through equity offerings, debt
financings or asset sales, although there is no express policy with respect
thereto. The Company may offer its shares or Operating Partnership units in
exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise re-acquire its shares or
any other securities in the future.


EBITDA BY SEGMENT AND REGION

The following table sets forth the percentage of the Company’s
EBITDA(1) by segment and region for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002, and 2001.  EBITDA for the year
ended December 31, 2003, includes gains on sale of real estate of
$161,789,000, of which $157,200,000 and $4,589,000 relate to New York Office
and Retail segments, respectively.  The
pro forma column gives effect to the January 1, 2002 acquisition by the
Company of the remaining 66% interest in CESCR described previously,
as if it had occurred on January 1, 2001.

(1)

EBITDA
represents “Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and
Amortization.”  EBITDA should not be
considered a substitute for net income. 
EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by
other companies.  See “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition Results of
Operations –Summary of Net Income and EBITDA” for a reconciliation of EBITDA to
net income.

(2)

Other
regions include the Temperature Controlled Logistics segment which has cold
storage warehouses in 32 states. 
See page 49 for details.


VORNADO OPERATING COMPANY
(“Vornado Operating”)

In October 1998, Vornado Operating was spun off from the Company in
order to own assets that the Company could not itself own and conduct
activities that the Company could not itself conduct.  The Company and Vornado Operating are parties to certain
agreements described below.

Agreement with Vornado Operating

The Company and Vornado Operating are parties to an agreement pursuant
to which, among other things, (i) the Company will under certain circumstances
offer Vornado Operating an opportunity to become the lessee of certain real
property owned now or in the future by the Company (under mutually satisfactory
lease terms) and (ii) Vornado Operating will not make any real estate
investment or other REIT-qualified investment unless it first offers the
Company the opportunity to make such investment and the Company has rejected
that opportunity.

Under the agreement, the Company provides Vornado Operating with
certain administrative, corporate, accounting, financial, insurance, legal,
tax, data processing, human resources and operational services. For these
services, Vornado Operating compensates the Company in an amount determined in
good faith by the Company as the amount an unaffiliated third party would
charge Vornado Operating for comparable services and reimburses the Company for
certain costs incurred and paid to third parties on behalf of Vornado
Operating.  Pursuant to the agreement,
compensation for such services was approximately $330,000 for each of the years
ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, and $371,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2001.

Vornado Operating and the Company each have the right to terminate the
agreement if the other party is in material default of the agreement or upon 90
days written notice to the other party at any time.  In addition, the Company has the right to terminate the agreement
upon a change in control of Vornado Operating.

Vornado Operating’s Management

Steven Roth, Michael Fascitelli, Richard West and Russell Wight are
directors of Vornado Operating.  Steven
Roth is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado
Operating, Michael Fascitelli is also President of Vornado Operating, and
certain other members of the Company’s senior management hold corresponding
positions with Vornado Operating.

Temperature Controlled Logistics Business

On March 11, 1999, the Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership (“the
Landlord”) in which the Company has a 60% general partnership interest and
Crescent Real Estate Equities has a 40% general partnership interest, sold
all of the non-real estate assets of Temperature Controlled Logistics
encompassing the operations of the temperature controlled business to a new
partnership (“AmeriCold Logistics”) owned 60% by Vornado Operating and 40% by
Crescent Operating Inc. AmeriCold Logistics leases the underlying
temperature controlled warehouses used in this business from the Landlord which
continues to own the real estate through its ownership of AmeriCold Realty
Trust. The leases, as amended, generally have a 15 year term with two-five year
renewal options and provide for the payment of fixed base rent and percentage rent
based on revenue AmeriCold Logistics receives from its customers. The
contractual rent for 2003 was $155,450,000. The Landlord’s share of annual
maintenance capital expenditures was $9,500,000. In accordance with the leases,
AmeriCold Logistics deferred payment of $41,811,000 of 2003 rent due to
the Landlord, of which the Company’s share was $25,087,000. Based on the joint
venture’s policy of recognizing rental income when earned and collection is
assured or cash is received, the joint venture did not recognize the amount of
the rent deferred by AmeriCold Logistics in the year ended December 31,
2003. At December 31, 2003, the Company’s share of the joint venture’s
total deferred rent receivable from the tenant was $49,436,000.

On February 5, 2004, AmeriCold Realty Trust completed a
$254,400,000 mortgage financing for 21 of its owned and 7 of its leased
temperature-controlled warehouses.  The
loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.95% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5% with respect
to $54,400,000 of the loan) and requires principal payments of $5,000,000
annually.  The loan matures in
April 2009 and is pre-payable without penalty after February 5,
2006.  The net proceeds were approximately
$225,000,000 after providing for usual escrows, closing costs and the repayment
of $12,900,000 of existing mortgages on two of the warehouses, of which
$135,000,000 was distributed to the Company and the remainder was distributed
to its partner.


Revolving Credit Agreement

Vornado Operating was granted a $75,000

,000

unsecured revolving credit facility
from the Company which expires on December 31, 2004.  Borrowings under the revolving credit
facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 3%. 
The Company receives a commitment fee equal to 1% per annum on the
average daily unused portion of the facility. 
No amortization is required to be paid under the revolving credit
facility during its term.  The revolving
credit facility prohibits Vornado Operating from incurring indebtedness to
third parties (other than certain purchase money debt and certain other
exceptions) and prohibits Vornado Operating from paying dividends.  As of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
amounts outstanding under the credit facility were $21,989,000, $21,989,000 and
$31,424,000.

Vornado Operating has disclosed that there is substantial
doubt as to its ability to continue as a going concern and its ability to
discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business.  Vornado Operating has incurred losses since
its inception and in the aggregate its investments do not, and for the
foreseeable future are not expected to, generate sufficient cash flow to pay
all of its debts and expenses.  Vornado
Operating estimates that it has adequate borrowing capacity under its credit
facility with the Company to meet its cash needs until December 31,
2004.  However, the principal, interest
and fees outstanding under the line of credit come due on such date.  Further, Vornado Operating states that its
only investee, AmeriCold Logistics (“Tenant”), anticipates that its Landlord, a
partnership 60% owned by the Company and 40% owned by Crescent Real Estate
Equities, will need to restructure the leases between the Landlord and the
Tenant to provide additional cash flow to the Tenant (the Landlord has
previously restructured the leases to provide additional cash flow to the
Tenant).  Management anticipates a
further lease restructuring in 2004, although it is under no obligation to do
so and there can be no assurance that it will do so.  Vornado Operating is expected to have a source to repay the debt
under this facility from the lease restructuring or other options, although not
by its original due date.  Since
January 1, 2002, the Company has not recognized interest income on the
debt under this facility.

On February 23, 2004, AmeriCold Logistics announced that Alec
Covington resigned as President and Chief Executive Officer effective
March 31, 2004, to take an opportunity in an unrelated industry.  A search to identify a successor is currently
underway.

ALEXANDER’S

The Company owns 33.1% of the outstanding shares of common stock of
Alexander’s. See “Interstate Properties” below for a description of
Interstate’s ownership of the Company and Alexander’s.

Alexander’s has six properties (see Item 2. Properties—Alexander’s).

At December 31, 2003, the Company had loans receivable from
Alexander’s of $124,000,000, including $29,000,000 drawn under a $50,000,000
line of credit.  The maturity date of
the loans is the earlier of January 3, 2006, or the date the
Alexander’s Lexington Avenue construction loan is finally repaid.  The Company accrues interest at 12.48% on
the loans, which resets quarterly using a 9.48% spread to one-year treasuries
with a 3% floor for treasuries.

The Company manages, develops and leases the Alexander’s properties
under a management and development agreement and a leasing agreement pursuant
to which the Company receives annual fees from Alexander’s.  Further, the Company has agreed to guarantee
to the construction lender, the lien free, timely completion of the
construction of Alexander’s Lexington Avenue development project and
funding of project costs in excess of a stated budget, if not funded by
Alexander’s.  These agreements are
described in Note 5 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  See Item 2 - “Properties” for a description
of Alexander’s properties and development and redevelopment projects.

Messrs. Roth, Fascitelli, Mandelbaum, West and Wight, directors of
the Company, are also directors of Alexander’s.  Mr. Roth is also Chief Executive Officer of Alexander’s and
Mr. Fascitelli is also President of Alexander’s.  Joseph Macnow, Executive Vice President - Finance and
Administration and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, is also Chief
Financial Officer of Alexander’s.

Alexander’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol “ALX”.


INTERSTATE PROPERTIES

As of December 31, 2003, Interstate Properties and its partners
owned approximately 11.7% of the common shares of beneficial interest of the
Company, 27.5% of Alexander’s common stock and beneficial ownership of 7.9% of
Vornado Operating (17.0% assuming redemption of 447,017 units of
Vornado Operating that are redeemable for cash, or at
Vornado Operating’s election, common stock of Vornado Operating).
Interstate Properties is a general partnership in which Steven Roth, David
Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the partners.  Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, the Managing General Partner of
Interstate Properties, and the Chief Executive Officer and a director of both
Alexander’s and Vornado Operating. 
Mr. Wight is a trustee of the Company and is also a director of both
Alexander’s and Vornado Operating. 
Mr. Mandelbaum is a trustee of the Company and is also a director
of Alexander’s.

COMPETITION

The Company’s business segments – Office, Retail, Merchandise Mart
Properties, Temperature Controlled Logistics, and Other operate in highly
competitive environments.  The Company
has a large concentration of properties in the New York City metropolitan area
and in the Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia area.  The Company competes with a large number of
real estate property owners and developers. 
Principal factors of competition are rent charged, attractiveness of
location, the quality of the property and breadth and quality of services
provided.  The Company’s success depends
upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies,
financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants
and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation
costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.

TENANTS WHICH ACCOUNTED FOR OVER 10% OF REVENUES

In 2003, the Company had 124 separate leases with the U.S. Government,
the rent from which accounted for 12.7% of the Company’s total revenues.  The loss of this tenant would have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s finances as a whole.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

The Company’s operations and properties are subject to various federal,
state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the
environment including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and
health and safety. Under certain of these environmental laws a current or
previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and
clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property.  The owner or operator may also be held
liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or
personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those
parties because of the contamination. 
These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or
operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release.  The presence of contamination or the failure
to remediate contamination may impair the Company’s ability to sell or lease
real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and
regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can
require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event
of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of
and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. 
The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical
equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and underground storage tanks
are also regulated by federal and state laws. 
The Company could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held
liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated
substances or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental
contamination or exposure at or from the Company’s properties.

Each of the Company’s properties has been subjected to varying degrees
of environmental assessment at various times. The environmental assessments did
not reveal any environmental condition material to the Company’s business.  However, identification of new compliance
concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known
scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the
contamination or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements could result in
significant costs to the Company.


CERTAIN ACTIVITIES

Acquisitions and investments are not required to be based on specific
allocation by type of property. The Company has historically held its
properties for long-term investment; however, it is possible that properties in
the portfolio may be sold in whole or in part, as circumstances warrant, from
time to time. Further, the Company has not adopted a policy that limits the amount
or percentage of assets which would be invested in a specific property. While
the Company may seek the vote of its shareholders in connection with any
particular material transaction, generally the Company’s activities are
reviewed and may be modified from time to time by its Board of Trustees without
the vote of shareholders.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2003, the Company had approximately 2,700
employees consisting of 1,511 in the Office Properties segment, 61 in the
Retail Properties segment, 470 in the Merchandise Mart Properties segment, 440
at the Hotel Pennsylvania and 218 corporate staff.  This does not include employees of partially-owned entities.

INSURANCE

The Company carries comprehensive liability and all risk property
insurance ((i) fire, (ii) flood, (iii) extended coverage, (iv) “acts of
terrorism” as defined in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 which expires
in 2004 with a possible extension through 2005 and (v) rental loss insurance)
with respect to its assets.  Below is a
summary of the all risk property insurance and terrorism risk insurance for
each of the Company’s business segments:

(1) Limited as to
terrorism insurance by the sub-limit shown in the adjacent column.

In addition to the coverage above, the Company carries lesser amounts
of coverage for terrorist acts not covered by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act
of 2002.

The Company’s debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by
its properties (which are generally non-recourse to the Company), its senior
unsecured notes due 2007 and 2010 and its revolving credit agreement, contain
customary covenants requiring the Company to maintain insurance. Although the
Company believes that it has adequate insurance coverage under these
agreements, the Company may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of
coverage at reasonable costs in the future. 
Further, if lenders insist on greater coverage than the Company is able
to obtain, it could adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance and/or
refinance its properties and expand its portfolio.


SEGMENT DATA

The Company operates in four business segments: Office Properties,
Retail Properties, Merchandise Mart Properties and Temperature Controlled
Logistics.  The Company engages in no
foreign operations.  Information related
to the Company’s business segments for the years 2003, 2002 and 2001 is set
forth in Note 18 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in this
annual report on Form 10-K.

The Company’s principal executive offices are located at
888 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019;
telephone (212) 894-7000.

MATERIALS AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE

Copies of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to
those reports, as well as Reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding Officers,
Trustees or 10% Beneficial Owners of the Company, filed or furnished pursuant
to Section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with, or furnish
it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
We also have made available on our website copies of our Audit Committee
Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate Governance and Nominating
Committee Charter, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance
Guidelines.  In the event of any changes
to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made
available on our website.


CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND
OPERATIONS

Set forth below are certain factors that may adversely affect our
business and operations.

Real
Estate Investments’ Value and Income Fluctuate Due to Various Factors.

The value of real
estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real
estate business. These conditions may also limit our revenues and available
cash.

The factors that affect the value of the our real estate include, among
other things, national, regional and local economic conditions; consequences of
any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States;
our ability to secure adequate insurance; local conditions such as an
oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area;
competition from other available space; whether tenants consider a property
attractive; the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of
tenant bankruptcies or defaults; whether we are able to
pass some or all of any increased operating costs through to
tenants; how well we manage our properties; fluctuations in interest rates;
changes in real estate taxes and other expenses; changes in market rental
rates; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals;
changes in taxation or zoning laws; government regulation; availability of
financing on acceptable terms or at all; potential liability under
environmental or other laws or regulations; and general competitive factors.

The rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may
decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors.  If our rental revenues decline, we generally
would expect to have less cash available to pay our indebtedness and distribute
to our shareholders. In addition, some of our major expenses, including
mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not
decline when the related rents decline.

We depend on
leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent
from our tenants, who may not be able to pay.

Our financial results depend on leasing space in our properties to
tenants on economically favorable terms. In addition, because substantially all
of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available
to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to our shareholders
will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their
rent.  If a tenant does not pay its
rent, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and
might incur substantial legal costs. For information regarding the bankruptcy
of our tenants, see “—Bankruptcy of tenants may decrease our revenues and
available cash” below.

Bankruptcy or
insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenues and available cash.

A number of companies, including some of our tenants, have declared
bankruptcy in recent years, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become
insolvent in the future.  If a major
tenant declares bankruptcy or becomes insolvent, the rental property where it
leases space may have lower revenues and operational difficulties, and, in the
case of our shopping centers, we may have difficulty leasing the remainder of
the affected property.  Our leases
generally do not contain restrictions designed to ensure the creditworthiness
of its tenants. As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant
could result in a lower level of funds from operations available for
distribution to our shareholders or the payment of our indebtedness.

In February 2003, KoninKlijke Ahold NV, parent of
Stop & Shop, announced that it overstated its 2002 and 2001 earnings
by at least $500 million and is under investigation by the U.S. Justice
Department and Securities and Exchange Commission.  See Item 2. Properties - Retail Segment - Former Bradlees
locations for information about former Bradlees leases guaranteed by
Stop & Shop.  We cannot predict
what effect, if any, this situation may have on Stop & Shop’s ability to
satisfy its obligation under the Bradlees guarantees and rent for existing Stop
& Shop leases aggregating approximately $10.5 million per annum.

The risk that some of our tenants may declare bankruptcy has been
higher because of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the
resulting decline in the economy.  If
there is not a sustained recovery of the economy, this risk may increase.


All of Our
Temperature Controlled Logistics Warehouses Are Leased to One Tenant, and That
Tenant Is Experiencing Operating Difficulties.

The Operating Partnership owns a 60% general partnership interest in a
partnership, which we refer to as the “Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership,”
that owns 87 cold storage warehouses nationwide with an aggregate of
approximately 440.7 million cubic feet of refrigerated, frozen and dry storage
space. In 1998, the Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership sold all of the
non-real estate assets encompassing the operations of the temperature
controlled business to a new partnership named AmeriCold Logistics, owned 60%
by Vornado Operating Company, an independent, public company, which we refer to
as “Vornado Operating,” and 40% by Crescent Operating Inc. AmeriCold Logistics
leases the underlying temperature controlled warehouses used in this business
from the Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership (“the Landlord”) which continues
to own the real estate.  During 2003,
AmeriCold Logistics generated approximately 9% of our EBITDA.  The leases, as amended, generally have a
15-year term with two-five year renewal options and provide for the payment of
fixed base rent and percentage rent based on revenue AmeriCold Logistics
receives from its customers.  The
contractual rent for 2003 was $155,450,000. 
The Landlord’s share of annual maintenance capital expenditures is $9,500,000.  In accordance with the leases,
AmeriCold Logistics deferred payment of $41,811,000 of 2003 rent due to
the Landlord, of which our share was $25,087,000.  Based on the joint venture’s policy of recognizing rental income
when earned and collection is assured or cash is received, the joint venture
did not recognize the amount of the rent deferred by AmeriCold Logistics in the
year ended December 31, 2003.  At
December 31, 2003, our share of the joint venture’s total deferred rent
receivable from the tenant is $49,436,000.

To the extent that the operations of AmeriCold Logistics may affect its
ability to pay rent, including percentage rent due under the leases, we
indirectly bear the risks associated with AmeriCold Logistics’ cold storage
business. The cold storage business is extremely competitive. Factors affecting
AmeriCold Logistics’ ability to compete include, among others, (a) general
economic conditions, (b) customer policies about outsourcing warehouse and
logistic services (c) warehouse locations, (d) customer mix and
(e) availability, quality and price of additional services.

Real estate is a
competitive business.

For a discussion of risks related to competition in the real estate
business, see “Item 1.  Business –
Competition.”

We may incur costs
to comply with environmental laws.

For a discussion of risks related to the Company’s compliance with
environmental laws, see “Item 1. 
Business – Environmental Regulations.”

Some of our
potential losses may not be covered by insurance.

For a discussion of risks related to our insurance coverage, see “Item
1.  Business – Insurance.”

Our
Investments Are Concentrated in the New York City/New Jersey and Washington,
D.C. Metropolitan Areas.  Circumstances
Affecting These Areas Generally Could Adversely Affect Our Business.

A significant proportion
of our properties are in the New York City/New Jersey and Washington, D.C.
metropolitan areas and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent
to those regions.

During 2003, 73% of our EBITDA came from properties located in New
Jersey and the New York City and Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas.  In addition, we may continue to concentrate
a significant portion of our future acquisitions in New Jersey and the New York
City and Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas. 
Like other real estate markets, the real estate markets in these areas
have experienced economic downturns in the past, and we cannot predict how the
current economic conditions will impact these markets in both the short and
long term.  Further declines in the
economy or a decline in the real estate markets in these areas could hurt our
financial performance and the value of our properties.  The factors affecting economic conditions in
these regions include: space needs of the United States Government, business
layoffs or downsizing; industry slowdowns; relocations of businesses; changing
demographics; increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places;
financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial,
technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries; infrastructure
quality; and any oversupply of or reduced demand for real estate.


It is impossible for us to assess the future effects of the current
uncertain trends in the economic and investment climates of the New York
City/New Jersey and Washington, D.C. regions, and more generally of the United
States, or the real estate markets in these areas.  If these conditions persist or if any local, national or global
economic recovery is of a short term, businesses and future profitability may
be adversely affected.

Terrorist Attacks
such as those of September 11, 2001 in New York City and the Washington,
D.C. Area May Adversely Affect the Value of Our Properties and Our Ability to
Generate Cash Flow.

We have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including
the New York/New Jersey, Washington, D.C. and Chicago metropolitan areas. In
the aftermath of the terrorist attacks, tenants in these areas may choose to
relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United
States that may be percieved to be less likely targets of future terrorist
activity. This in turn would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these
areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease
our properties on less favorable terms. As a result, the value of our
properties and the level of our revenues could decline materially.

We
May Acquire or Sell Additional Assets or Develop Additional Properties.  Our Failure or Inability to Consummate These
Transactions or Manage the Results of These Transactions Could Adversely Affect
Our Operations and Financial Results.

We have grown
rapidly through acquisitions.  We may
not be able to maintain this rapid growth and our failure to do so could
adversely affect our stock price.

We have experienced rapid growth in recent years, increasing our total
assets from approximately $565 million at December 31, 1996 to
approximately $9.5 billion at December 31, 2003.  We may not be able to maintain a similar
rate of growth in the future or manage our growth effectively.  Our failure to do so may have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and ability
to pay dividends to our shareholders.

We may acquire or
develop new properties and this may create risks.

We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate
companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with
our business strategies. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired
acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. We also
may not succeed in leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents
sufficient to cover their costs of acquisition or development and
operations.  Difficulties in integrating
acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s
attention.

It may be
difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly.

Real
estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly.  Consequently, we may have limited ability to
vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other
conditions.

We may not be
permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with
those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring
additional costs.

As part of an acquisition of a property, including our January 1, 2002,
acquisition of CESCR’s 13.0 million square foot portfolio, we may agree, and in
the case of CESCR did agree, with the seller that we will not dispose of the
acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness on them for significant
periods of time unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller.  These agreements could result in our holding
on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance
indebtedness that we would otherwise pay down or refinance.


On January 1,
2002, we completed the acquisition of the 66% interest in CESCR that we did not
previously own. The terms of the merger restrict our ability to sell or
otherwise dispose of, or to finance or refinance, the properties formerly owned
by Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty L.P., which could result in our inability
to sell these properties at an opportune time and increased costs to us.

Subject to limited exceptions, we are restricted from selling or
otherwise transferring or disposing of certain properties located in the Crystal
City area of Arlington, Virginia or an interest in our division that manages
the majority of our office properties in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan
area, which we refer to as the CESCR Division, for a period of 12 years with
respect to certain properties located in the Crystal City area of Arlington,
Virginia or six years with respect to an interest in the CESCR Division.  These restrictions, which currently cover
approximately 13.0 million square feet of space, could result in our inability
to sell these properties or an interest in the CESCR Division at an opportune
time and increase costs to us.

Our Organizational and Financial Structure Gives Rise
to Operational and Financial Risks.

We May Not Be Able
to Obtain Capital to Make Investments.

We depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our
business. This is because one of the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, for a REIT is that it distribute 90% of its net taxable
income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders (there is a separate
requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in
lieu).  Our access to debt or equity
financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity
investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. We and other
companies in the real estate industry have experienced limited availability of
financing from time to time. Although we believe that we will be able to
finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, new
financing may not be available on acceptable terms.

For information about our available sources of funds, see “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to the consolidated financial
statements in this annual report on Form 10-K.

Vornado Realty
Trust depends on its direct and indirect subsidiaries’ dividends and
distributions, and these subsidiaries’ creditors and preferred security holders
are entitled to payment of amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before
the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to Vornado Realty
Trust.

Substantially all of Vornado Realty Trust’s assets are held through its
Operating Partnership which holds substantially all of its properties and
assets through subsidiaries. The Operating Partnership therefore depends for
substantially all of its cash flow on cash distributions to it by its
subsidiaries, and Vornado Realty Trust in turn depends for substantially all of
its cash flow on cash distributions to it by the Operating Partnership. The
creditors of each of the Vornado Realty Trust’s direct and indirect
subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s obligations to them,
when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to
its equity holders. Thus, the Operating Partnership’s ability to make
distributions to holders of units depends on its subsidiaries’ ability first to
satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to
the Operating Partnership. Likewise, Vornado Realty Trust’s ability to pay
dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the Operating
Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and
make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make
distributions to Vornado Realty Trust.

Furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the Operating
Partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of
distributions to holders of common units of the Operating Partnership,
including Vornado Realty Trust. Thus, Vornado Realty Trust ability to pay
dividends to holders of its common shares and satisfy its debt obligations
depends on the Operating Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations
to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units
and then to make distributions to Vornado Realty Trust. There are currently 17
series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership not held by Vornado
Realty Trust that have preference over Vornado Realty Trust common shares. The
total liquidation value of these 17 series of preferred units is
approximately $1,417,950,000.


In addition, Vornado Realty Trust participation in any distribution of
the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation,
reorganization or insolvency of the subsidiary, is only after the claims of the
creditors, including trade creditors, and preferred security holders, if any,
of the subsidiary are satisfied.

We have
indebtedness, and this indebtedness may increase.

As of December 31, 2003, we had approximately $5.115 billion in
total debt outstanding.  Our ratio of
total debt to total enterprise value was 35%. When we say “enterprise value” in
the preceding sentence, we mean market equity value of Vornado Realty Trust
plus debt less cash. In the future, we may incur additional debt, and thus
increase its ratio of total debt to total enterprise value, to finance
acquisitions or property developments.

Vornado Realty
Trust might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.

Although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to
operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we might
fail to remain qualified in this way. Qualification as a REIT for federal
income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial or
administrative interpretations. Our qualification as a REIT also depends on
various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. In
addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court
decisions might significantly change the tax laws with respect to the
requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences
of qualification as a REIT.

If, with respect to any taxable year, Vornado Realty Trust fails to
maintain its qualification as a REIT, it could not deduct distributions to
shareholders in computing its taxable income and would have to pay federal
income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. The federal income
tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. If Vornado
Realty Trust had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to
distribute to shareholders and pay its indebtedness would be reduced for the
year or years involved, and Vornado Realty Trust would no longer be required to
distribute money to shareholders. In addition, Vornado Realty Trust would also
be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following
the year during which qualification was lost, unless it was entitled to relief
under the relevant statutory provisions. Although Vornado Realty Trust
currently intends to operate in a manner designed to allow it to qualify as a
REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause it
to revoke the REIT election.

Loss of the
Company’s key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the
value of our common shares.

We are dependent on the efforts of Steven Roth, the Chairman of the
Board of Trustees and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado Realty Trust, and Michael
D. Fascitelli, the President of Vornado Realty Trust. While we believe that we
could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services
could harm our operations and adversely affect the value or our common shares.

Vornado Realty Trust’s
charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us.

Generally, for Vornado Realty Trust to maintain its qualification as a
REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of the
outstanding shares of beneficial interest of Vornado Realty Trust may be owned,
directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the
last half of Vornado Realty Trust’s taxable year. The Internal Revenue Code
defines “individuals” for purposes of the requirement described in the
preceding sentence to include some types of entities. Under Vornado Realty
Trust’s Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as amended, no person may
own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding
preferred shares, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in
excess of the 6.7% limit before Vornado Realty Trust adopted the limit and
other persons approved by Vornado Realty Trust’s Board of Trustees.  These restrictions on transferability and ownership
may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or other
transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best
interest of the shareholders.  We refer
to Vornado Realty Trust’s Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as
amended, as the “declaration of trust.”

Vornado Realty Trust’s Board of Trustees is divided into three classes
of trustees. Trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms.
Staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an
attempt to change control of the Company, even though a tender offer or change
in control might be in the best interest of Vornado Realty Trust’s
shareholders.


The declaration of trust authorizes the Board of Trustees to, cause
Vornado Realty Trust to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares
or preferred shares; classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any
unissued preferred shares; set the preferences, rights and other terms of any
classified or reclassified shares that Vornado Realty Trust issues; and
increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial
interest that Vornado Realty Trust may issue.

The Board of Trustees could establish a series of preferred shares
whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company or
other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the
best interest of Vornado Realty Trust’s shareholders, although the Board of
Trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this
kind. Vornado Realty Trust’s declaration of trust and bylaws contain other
provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of the Company
or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the
best interest of the shareholders.

Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended, which we refer
to as the “MGCL,” as applicable to real estate investment trusts, certain
“business combinations,” including certain mergers, consolidations, share
exchanges and asset transfers and certain issuances and reclassifications of
equity securities, between a Maryland real estate investment trust and any
person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the
trust’s shares or an affiliate or an associate, as defined in the MGCL, of the
trust who, at any time within the two-year period before the date in question,
was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then
outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust, which we refer
to as an “interested shareholder,” or an affiliate of the interested
shareholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which
the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. After that
five-year period, any business combination of these kinds must be recommended
by the board of trustees of the trust and approved by the affirmative vote of
at least (a) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding
shares of beneficial interest of the trust and (b) two-thirds of the votes
entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of the trust other than shares
held by the interested shareholder with whom, or with whose affiliate, the
business combination is to be effected, unless, among other conditions, the
trust’s common shareholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the MGCL,
for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form
as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common shares. The
provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are
approved or exempted by the board of trustees of the applicable trust before
the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and a person is
not an interested shareholder if the board of trustees approved in advance the
transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested
shareholder.  In approving a
transaction, the board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance,
at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by
the board.  Vornado Realty Trust’s board
has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between any trustee
or officer of the Company, or their affiliates, and the Company. As a result,
the trustees and officers of the Company and their affiliates may be able to
enter into business combinations with the Company which may not be in the best
interest of shareholders. With respect to business combinations with other
persons, the business combination provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of
delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company or other
transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best
interest of the shareholders. The business combination statute may discourage
others from trying to acquire control of the Company and increase the
difficulty of consummating any offer.

Our Ownership Structure and Related-Party Transactions
May Give Rise to Conflicts of Interest.

Steven Roth and
Interstate Properties may exercise substantial influence over the Company. They
and some of the Company’s other trustees and officers have interests or
positions in other entities that may compete with the Company.

As of December 31, 2003, Interstate Properties, a New Jersey
general partnership, and its partners owned approximately 11.7% of the common
shares of Vornado Realty Trust and approximately 27.5% of the common stock of
Alexander’s, Inc. and beneficially owned approximately 7.9% of the common stock
of Vornado Operating (approximately 17.0% assuming redemption of 447,017 units
of Vornado Operating L.P., the operating subsidiary of Vornado Operating, that
are beneficially owned by Interstate Properties and redeemable for common
stock of Vornado Operating).  Steven
Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the three partners of
Interstate Properties. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of Vornado Realty Trust, the managing general partner of
Interstate Properties, the Chief Executive Officer and a director of
Alexander’s and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
Vornado Operating. Mr. Wight is a trustee of Vornado Realty Trust and is also a
director of both Alexander’s and Vornado Operating. Mr. Mandelbaum is a trustee
of Vornado Realty Trust and is also a director of Alexander’s.

As of December 31, 2003, we owned 33.1% of the outstanding common
stock of Alexander’s. Alexander’s is a REIT engaged in leasing, managing,
developing and redeveloping properties, focusing primarily on the locations
where its department stores operated before they ceased operations in 1992.
Alexander’s has six properties, which are located in the New York City metropolitan
area. Mr. Roth and Mr. Fascitelli, the President and a trustee of Vornado
Realty Trust, are


directors of
Alexander’s. Messrs. Mandelbaum, West and Wight are trustees of Vornado Realty
Trust and are also directors of Alexander’s.

Because of these overlapping interests, Mr. Roth and Interstate
Properties and its partners may have substantial influence over Vornado Realty
Trust, Alexander’s and Vornado Operating and on the outcome of any matters submitted
to Vornado Realty Trust, Alexander’s or Vornado Operating’s shareholders for
approval. In addition, certain decisions concerning the Company’s operations or
financial structure may present conflicts of interest among Messrs. Roth,
Mandelbaum and Wight and Interstate Properties and the Company’s other equity
or debt holders. In addition, Mr. Roth and Interstate Properties and its
partners currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities
in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with
respect to matters affecting the Company, Alexander’s or Vornado Operating,
such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of
potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the
types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make
investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or
sought to be conducted, by the Company, Interstate Properties, Alexander’s and
Vornado Operating, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate
transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the
future of these entities.

The Company currently manages and leases the real estate assets of
Interstate Properties under a management agreement for which the Company
receives an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent and certain
other commissions. The management agreement has a term of one year and is
automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on 60 days’
notice at the end of the term. The Company earned $703,000, $747,000 and
$1,133,000 of management fees under the management agreement for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. 
In addition, during fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, as a result of a
previously existing leasing arrangement with Alexander’s, Alexander’s paid to
Interstate $587,000, $703,000 and $522,000, respectively, for the leasing an
other services actually rendered by the Company.  Upon receipt of these payments, Interstate promptly paid them
over to the Company without retaining any interest therein.  This arrangement was terminated in 2003 and
all payments by Alexander’s for these leasing and other services are made
directly to the Company.  Because the Company
and Interstate Properties are controlled by the same persons, as described
above, the terms of the management agreement and any future agreements between
the Company and Interstate Properties may not be comparable to those the
Company could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.

We engage in
transactions with Vornado Operating on terms that may or may not be comparable
to those it could negotiate with unaffiliated third parties.

In October 1998, Vornado Operating was spun off from the Company
in order to own assets that the Company could not itself own and conduct
activities that the Company could not itself conduct.  In addition to being trustees of Vornado Realty Trust, Messrs.
Roth, Fascitelli, West and Wight are directors of Vornado Operating. Mr. Roth
is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado Operating,
Mr. Fascitelli is also President of Vornado Operating, and certain other
members of the Company’s senior management hold corresponding positions with
Vornado Operating.

The Company entered into a $75,000,000 unsecured revolving credit
facility with Vornado Operating that expires on December 31, 2004.
Borrowings under the revolving credit agreement bear interest at LIBOR plus 3%.
The Company receives an annual commitment fee equal to 1% on the average daily
unused portion of the facility. Vornado Operating is not required to pay any
amortization under the revolving credit agreement during its term. The
revolving credit agreement prohibits Vornado Operating from incurring
indebtedness to third parties, other than certain purchase money debt and
certain other exceptions, and prohibits Vornado Operating from paying
dividends. As of December 31, 2003, $21,989,000 was the carrying balance
on our books for the amount outstanding under the revolving credit agreement.

The Company and Vornado Operating are parties to an agreement under
which, among other things, (a) we will offer Vornado Operating, under
certain circumstances, an opportunity to become the lessee of certain real
property owned now or in the future by us under mutually satisfactory lease
terms and (b) Vornado Operating will not make any real estate investment
or other investments known as REIT-qualified investments unless it first
offers us the opportunity to make the investment and we have rejected that
opportunity. Under this agreement, we provide Vornado Operating with
administrative, corporate, accounting, financial, insurance, legal, tax, data
processing, human resources and operational services. For these services,
Vornado Operating compensates us in an amount determined in good faith by us as
the amount an unaffiliated third party would charge Vornado Operating for
comparable services and reimburses us for certain costs incurred and paid to
third parties on behalf of Vornado Operating. Under this agreement,
compensation for these services was approximately $330,000, for each of the
years ended December 31, 2003, and 2002 and $371,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2001. Vornado Operating and the Company each have the right
to terminate this agreement if the other party is in material default of the
agreement or upon 90 days’ written notice to the other party at any time. In
addition, we have the right to terminate this agreement upon a change in control
of Vornado Operating.


Vornado Operating’s restated certificate of incorporation specifies
that one of its corporate purposes is to perform this agreement and, for so
long as the agreement remains in effect, prohibits Vornado Operating from
making any real estate investment or other REIT-qualified investment without
first offering the opportunity to the Company in the manner specified in the
agreement.

The Company and Vornado Operating may enter into additional
transactions in the future. Because the Company and Vornado Operating share
common senior management and because four of the Company’s trustees also
constitute the majority of the directors of Vornado Operating, the terms of the
foregoing agreements and any future agreements between us and Vornado Operating
may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated
third party.

There may be
conflicts of interest between Alexander’s and Us

As of December 31, 2003, the Operating Partnership owned 33.1% of
the outstanding common stock of Alexander’s. 
Alexander’s is a REIT engaged in leasing, managing, developing and
redeveloping properties, focusing primarily on the locations where its department
stores operated before they ceased operations in 1992.  Alexander’s has six properties.  Interstate Properties, which is further
described above, owned an additional 27.5% of the outstanding common stock of
Alexander’s as of December 31, 2003. 
Mr. Roth, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado
Realty Trust, is Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alexander’s, and Mr.
Fascitelli, President and a trustee of Vornado Realty Trust, is President and a
director of Alexander’s.  Messrs.
Mandelbaum, West and Wight, trustees of the Company, are also directors of
Alexander’s.  Alexander’s common stock
is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “ALX.”

At December 31, 2003, the Company had loans receivable from
Alexander’s of $124,000,000 at an interest rate of 12.48%, including
$29,000,000 drawn under a $50,000,000 line of credit.  The maturity date of the loans is the earlier of January 3,
2006 or the date that Alexander’s Lexington Avenue construction loan is repaid fully.
The Operating Partnership manages, develops and leases the Alexander’s
properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements
under which the Operating Partnership receives annual fees from Alexander’s.
These agreements have a one-year term expiring in March of each year,
except that the Lexington Avenue management and development agreements have a
term lasting until substantial completion of development of the Lexington
Avenue property, and are all automatically renewable. Because the Company and
Alexander’s share common senior management and because a majority of the
trustees of Vornado Realty Trust also constitute the majority of the directors
of Alexander’s, the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements
between us and Alexander’s may not be comparable to those we could have
negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.

For a description of Interstate Properties’ ownership of Vornado Realty
Trust, Vornado Operating and Alexander’s, see “Steven Roth and Interstate
Properties may exercise substantial influence over the Company. They and some
of the Company’s other trustees and officers have interests or positions in
other entities that may compete with the Company” above.

The Number of Shares of the Company and the Market for
Those Shares Give Rise to Various Risks.

Vornado Realty
Trust has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market
price of its shares.

As of February 16, 2004, we had authorized but unissued,
81,752,000 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value, and 60,039,000
preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value.  We may issue these additional shares from
time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions.

In addition, as of February 16, 2004, 26,430,943 Vornado Realty
Trust common shares were reserved for issuance upon redemption of Operating
Partnership units.  Some of these shares
may be sold in the public market after registration under the Securities Act
under registration rights agreements between the Company and some holders of
units of the Operating Partnership. 
These shares may also be sold in the public market under Rule 144 under
the Securities Act or other available exemptions from registration.  In addition, Vornado Realty Trust has
reserved a number of common shares for issuance under its employee benefit
plans, and these common shares will be available for sale from time to
time.  Vornado Realty Trust has awarded
shares of restricted stock and granted options to purchase additional common
shares to some of its executive officers and employees.

We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common shares,
preferred shares or Operating Partnership Units, or the perception that sales
of common shares, preferred or Operating Partnership Units could occur, will
have on the market prices for Vornado Realty Trust’s shares.


Changes in market
conditions could hurt the market price of Vornado Realty Trust’s shares.

The value of the Vornado Realty Trust’s shares depends on various
market conditions, which may change from time to time. Among the market
conditions that may affect the value of the Vornado Realty Trust’s shares are
the following: the extent of institutional investor interest in the Company;
the reputation of REITs generally and the attractiveness of their equity
securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities
issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities; our
financial condition and performance; and general financial market conditions.

The stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and
volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the
operating performance of companies.

Increased market
interest rates may hurt the value of Vornado Realty Trust’s shares.

We believe that investors consider the distribution rate on REIT
shares, expressed as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to
market interest rates as an important factor in deciding whether to buy or sell
the shares.  If market interest rates go
up, prospective purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher distribution
rate.  Higher interest rates would
likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease funds available for
distribution.  Thus, higher market
interest rates could cause the market price of Vornado Realty Trust’s shares to
decline.


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

The Company currently owns, directly or indirectly, Office properties,
Retail properties, Merchandise Mart properties and Temperature Controlled
Logistics refrigerated warehouses. The Company also owns or has investments in
Alexander’s, Hotel Pennsylvania, The Newkirk Master Limited Partnership,
and dry warehouses and industrial buildings.

Office
Segment

The Company currently owns all or a portion of 83 office properties
containing approximately 27.3 million square feet.  Of these properties, 20, containing 13.3 million square
feet, are located in the New York City metropolitan area (primarily
Manhattan) (the “New York City Office Properties”) and 63, containing 14.0
million square feet, are located in the Washington, D.C. and
Northern Virginia area (the “CESCR Office Properties”).

New York City Office Properties:

The New York City Office Properties contain:
12,456,000 square feet of office space and 797,000 square feet of retail
space.  In addition, the New York City
Office properties contain five garages totaling 332,000 square feet (1,600
spaces) which are managed by or leased to third parties.  The garage space is excluded from the
statistics provided in this section.

On May 2, 2003, the Company acquired the remaining 40% of a
78-year leasehold interest in 20 Broad Street it did not already own.  The purchase price was approximately
$30,000,000 in cash.  20 Broad Street
contains 466,000 square feet of office space, of which 348,000 square feet is
leased to the New York Stock Exchange.

On October 10, 2003, the Company sold Two Park Avenue, a
965,000 square foot office building, for $292,000,000 to SEB
Immobilien-Investment GMBH, a German capital investment company.   The Company’s net gain on the sale after
closing costs was approximately $156,433,000.

The following table sets forth the percentage of the New York City
Office Properties 2003 revenue by tenants’ industry:

The Company’s New York City Office property lease terms generally range
from five to seven years for smaller tenant spaces to as long as 15 years for
major tenants, and may include extension options at market rates.  Leases typically provide for step-ups in
rent periodically over the term of the lease and pass through to tenants the
tenant’s share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses over a
base year. Electricity is provided to tenants on a sub-metered basis or
included in rent based on surveys and adjusted for subsequent utility rate
increases. Leases also typically provide for tenant improvement allowances for all
or a portion of the tenant’s initial construction costs of its premises.


No tenant in the New York City office segment accounted for more than
10% of the Company’s 2003 total revenue. 
Below is a listing of tenants that accounted for 2% or more of the
New York City Office Properties revenues in 2003:

The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average
annual escalated rent per square foot for the New York City Office
properties, excluding garage space, at the end of each of the past five years.

During 2003, 1,017,000 square feet of New York City office space
was leased at a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $44.28.  The Company’s ownership interest in the
leased square footage is 925,000 square feet at a weighted average initial
rent per square foot of $44.60, a 15% increase over the weighted average
escalated rent per square foot of $38.51 for the expiring leases.  Following is the detail by building:

(1)

Most
leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in the
initial rent per square foot leased.

In addition to the office space noted above, the Company leased
66,000 square feet of retail space at a weighted average initial rent of
$220.97 per square foot.


The following tables set forth lease expirations for the office and
retail portions of the New York City Office Properties as of December 31,
2003, for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants
exercise their renewal options.

Office Space:

(1)

Excludes
492,000 square feet at 909 Third Avenue leased to the U.S. Post Office for
which the annual escalated rent is $4,412,000 or $8.96 per square foot.  The U.S. Post Office has 6 five-year
renewal options remaining.

Retail Space (contained in office buildings):


The following table sets
forth the New York City Office Properties owned by the Company as of
December 31, 2003:

(1)

These properties
are 100% ground leased with the exception of 150 East 58

th

Street
where less than 10% is ground leased.

(2)

Excludes 114,119
square feet under development.


Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty (“CESCR”) Office
Properties:

CESCR owns 63 office buildings in the Washington D.C. and Northern
Virginia area containing 14.0 million square feet and manages an
additional 8.5 million square feet of office and other commercial
properties.  In addition, CESCR’s
buildings contain 19 garages totaling approximately 7.4 million square feet
(25,000 spaces) which are managed by or leased to third parties.  The garage space is excluded from the
statistics provided in this section.  As
of December 31, 2003, 44 percent of CESCR’s property portfolio is leased
to various agencies of the U.S. government.

On April 9, 2003, the Company acquired Kaempfer which owns partial
interests in six Class “A” office properties in Washington D.C. containing 1.8
million square feet, manages and leases these properties and four others for
which it receives customary fees and has options to acquire certain other real
estate interests, including the Waterfront project discussed below.  Kaempfer’s equity interest in the properties
approximates 5.0%.  The aggregate
purchase price for the equity interests and the management and leasing business
was $32,200,000 consisting of $28,600,000 in cash, approximately 99,300
Operating Partnership units valued at $3,600,000 and may be increased by up to
$9,000,000 based on the performance of the management company.

On October 7, 2003, the Company acquired a 2.5% interest in the
planned redevelopment of Waterfront, located at 401 M Street, a mixed-use
project in Washington D.C. (“the Waterfront interest”) for $2,171,000, of which
the Company paid $1,545,000 in cash and issued 12,500 Operating Partnership
units valued at $626,000.  The
partnership units were issued to Mitchell N. Schear, one of the partners
in the Waterfront interest, who became the President of the Company’s CESCR
division.

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of 2101 L
Street, a 370,000 square foot office building located in Washington D.C.  The consideration for the acquisition
consisted of approximately 1.1 million newly issued Operating Partnership units
(valued at approximately $49,517,000) and the assumption of existing mortgage
debt and transaction costs totaling approximately $32,000,000.  Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod,
trustees of Vornado, together with family members owned approximately 24
percent of the limited partnership that sold the building and Mr. Smith was a
general partner.  On August 5,
2003, the Company repaid the mortgage of $29,056,000.


The following table sets forth the percentage of CESCR’s Office
properties 2003 revenue by tenants’ industry:

CESCR office leases are typically for four to seven year terms, and may
provide for extension options at either pre-negotiated or market rates.  Most leases provide for annual rental
escalations throughout the lease term, plus recovery of increases in real
estate taxes and certain property operating expenses over a base year.  Annual rental escalations are typically
based upon either fixed percentage increases or the consumer price index.  Leases also typically provide for tenant
improvement allowances for all or a portion of the tenant’s initial
construction costs of its premises.

Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the
CESCR Office properties revenues during 2003:

The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average
annual escalated rent per square foot for the CESCR properties at the end of
each of the past five years:


During 2003, 2,848,000 square feet of CESCR office space was leased at
a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $30.26, a 2.6% increase over
the weighted average escalated rent per square foot of $29.86 for the expiring
leases.  Following is the detail by
building and/or complex:

(1)

Most leases include periodic step-ups in
rent which are not reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.


The following table sets forth lease expirations for the CESCR Office
Properties as of December 31, 2003 for each of the next 10 years,
assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.

Included in the above table is 1,939,000 square feet leased to the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) in the Crystal City submarket.  The PTO lease expirations are as follows:

The average annual escalated rent per square foot of the PTO space is
$26.61.  The average escalated rent per
square foot of CESCR space expiring in 2004 in the Crystal City submarket is
$28.56.  The Company plans substantial
renovations to this space as outlined in Item 1-Business “Development and
Redevelopment Projects”.


The following
table sets forth the CESCR Office Properties owned by the Company as of
December 31, 2003:

(1)

These
properties are 100% ground leased.


Retail
Segment

The Company owns 60 retail properties, of which 48 are strip shopping
centers primarily located in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic states; five are regional
malls located in New York, New Jersey and San Juan, Puerto Rico; and seven are
retail properties located in Manhattan. 
The Company’s strip shopping centers and malls are generally located on
major regional highways in mature, densely populated areas.  The Company believes these properties
attract consumers from a regional, rather than a neighborhood market place
because of their location on regional highways.

The Company’s strip shopping centers contain an aggregate of 8.8
million square feet and are substantially (over 80%) leased to large stores
(over 20,000 square feet).  Tenants
include destination retailers such as discount department stores, supermarkets,
home improvement stores, discount apparel stores, membership warehouse clubs
and “category killers.”  Category
killers are large stores that offer a complete selection of a category of items
(e.g., toys, office supplies, etc.) at low prices, often in a warehouse format.  Tenants typically offer basic consumer
necessities such as food, health and beauty aids, moderately priced clothing,
building materials and home improvement supplies, and compete primarily on the
basis of price and location.

The Company’s five regional malls are as follows:

The Green Acres Mall in Long Island, New
York contains 1.6 million square feet, and is anchored by four major department
stores: Sears, Roebuck and Co., J.C. Penney Company, Inc.,
Federated Department Stores, Inc. (“Federated”) doing business as Macy’s,
and Federated doing business as Stern’s, that is currently dark.  In February 2004, the Company entered
into an agreement with Federated to take back 63,000 square feet of the former
Stern’s store.  The remainder of the Stern’s
space will be operated as a Macy’s Men’s Store and a Macy’s Home Store.  Federated will continue to pay the same rent
(exclusive of real estate taxes for the space taken back by the Company).  The complex also includes The Plaza at
Green Acres, a 172,000 square foot strip shopping center which is
anchored by Wal-Mart and National Wholesale Liquidators.  The Company plans to renovate the interior
of the mall.  In addition, the Company
will construct 70,000 square feet of free-standing retail space and parking
decks in the complex, subject to governmental approvals.  Further, the Company has entered into a
ground lease with B.J.’s Wholesale Club who will construct its own
free-standing store in the complex.  The
expansion and renovation are expected to be completed by 2006.

The Monmouth Mall, located in Eatontown,
New Jersey was acquired on October 10, 2002, by a joint venture in
which the Company has a 50% interest. 
The mall contains 1.5 million square feet and is anchored by four
department store tenants (Macy’s, Lord & Taylor, J.C. Penney’s and
Boscovs), three of which own their stores aggregating 719,000 square feet.

The Bergen Mall in Paramus, New Jersey, contains
903,000 square feet and is anchored by Macy’s, Value City, Marshalls and
Off Saks Fifth Avenue.  The Bergen
Mall was acquired on December 12, 2003, for approximately $145,000,000.

The Montehiedra Mall in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, contains 554,000 square feet and is anchored by
Home Depot, Kmart, and Marshalls.

The Las Catalinas Mall in San Juan, Puerto Rico,
contains 493,000 square feet and is anchored by Kmart and Sears, which
owns its store.


The following table sets forth the percentage of the Retail Properties
2003 revenues by type of retailer:

The Company’s shopping center lease terms range from five years or less
in some instances for smaller tenant spaces to as long as 25 years for
major tenants. Leases generally provide for additional rents based on a
percentage of tenants’ sales and pass through to tenants of the tenants’ share
of all common area charges (including roof and structure in strip shopping
centers, unless it is the tenant’s direct responsibility), real estate taxes
and insurance costs and certain capital expenditures. Percentage rent accounted
for less than 1% of total shopping center revenues in 2003.  None of the tenants in the Retail Segment
accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s 2003 total revenues.

Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the
Retail properties revenues in 2003:


The aggregate occupancy rate for the 12,889,000 square feet of retail
properties at December 31, 2003 is 93.0%. 
The occupancy rate includes leases for 691,000 square feet (6%) at four
locations, which have not commenced at December 31, 2003.  The following sets forth the occupancy rate
and the average annual base rent per square foot for the Strip Shopping Centers
and Regional Malls at the end of each of the past five years.

Strip Shopping Centers:

Regional Malls:

Manhattan Retail and Other:

The Manhattan retail is comprised of seven properties containing
325,000 square feet, including 4 Union Square South, containing 198,000 square
feet, which is currently under development.

The Company has two strip shopping centers aggregating 327,000 square
feet which are classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2003.


During 2003, approximately 803,000 square feet of retail space was
leased at a weighted average rent per square foot of $17.40, an 11.6% increase
over the weighted average rent per square foot of $15.59 for the expiring
leases and 243,000 square feet of land was ground leased to retailers at a
weighted average rent per square foot of $10.60.  Following is the detail by property:

(1)

Most
leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in the
initial rent per square foot leased.


Former Bradlees locations:

Property rentals for the year ended December 31, 2003, include
$5,000,000 of additional rent which, effective December 31, 2002, was
re-allocated to the former Bradlees locations in Marlton, Turnersville,
Bensalem and Broomall and is payable by Stop & Shop, pursuant to the
Master Agreement and Guaranty, dated May 1, 1992.  This amount is in addition to all other rent guaranteed by Stop
& Shop for the former Bradlees locations. 
On January 8, 2003, Stop & Shop filed a complaint with the
United States District Court claiming the Company has no right to reallocate
and therefore continue to collect the $5,000,000 of annual rent from
Stop & Shop because of the expiration of the East Brunswick,
Jersey City, Middletown, Union and Woodbridge leases to which the
$5,000,000 of additional rent was previously allocated.  The Company believes the additional rent
provision of the guaranty expires at the earliest in 2012 and is vigorously
contesting Stop & Shop’s position.

In February 2003, Koninklijke Ahold NV, parent of
Stop & Shop, announced that it overstated its 2002 and 2001 earnings
by at least $500 million and is under investigation by the U.S. Justice
Department and Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Company cannot predict what effect, if any, this situation
may have on Stop & Shop’s ability to satisfy its obligation under the
Bradlees guarantees and rent for existing Stop & Shop leases aggregating
approximately $10.5 million per annum.

The following table sets forth the lease expirations for the Retail
Properties as of December 31, 2003 for each of the next 10 years
assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.


The following table sets forth the Retail Properties owned by the
Company as of December 31, 2003:


Approximate Leasable

Building Square Footage

Location

Owned/

Leased by

Company

Owned by

Tenant on

Land Leased

from

Company

Percent

Leased

Encumbrances

(in thousands)

PENNSYLVANIA

Allentown

269,000

354,000

97.3

%

23,019

(2)

Bensalem

122,000

8,000

97.6

%

6,361

(2)

Bethlehem

159,000

—

74.4

%

4,026

(2)

Broomall

147,000

22,000

86.5

%

9,680

(2)

Glenolden

10,000

92,000

100.0

%

7,260

(2)

Lancaster

58,000

170,000

93.6

%

—

Levittown

105,000

—

100.0

%

3,253

(2)

10th and Market Streets, Philadelphia

271,000

—

76.2

%

8,867

(2)

Upper Moreland

122,000

—

100.0

%

6,883

(2)

York

111,000

—

24.6

%

4,070

(2)

Total Pennsylvania

1,374,000

646,000

87.8

%

73,419

MARYLAND

Baltimore (Towson)

152,000

—

79.3

%

11,280

(2)

Glen Burnie

65,000

56,000

100.0

%

5,805

(2)

Total Maryland

217,000

56,000

88.5

%

17,085

CONNECTICUT

Newington

43,000

140,000

100.0

%

6,483

(2)

Waterbury

146,000

—

92.2

%

—

Total Connecticut

189,000

140,000

96.5

%

6,483

MASSACHUSETTS

Chicopee

—

116,000

100.0

%

—

Milford (1)

83,000

—

100.0

%

—

Springfield

8,000

117,000

100.0

%

3,095

Total Massachusetts

91,000

233,000

100.0

%

3,095

Total Strip Shopping Centers

6,204,000

2,594,000

92.3

%

473,884

OTHER RETAIL:

NEW YORK (Manhattan)

1135 Third Avenue

25,000

—

100.0

%

—

  Union Square South (in development)

198,000

—

97.5

%

—

424 Sixth Avenue

10,000

—

100.0

%

—

435 Seventh Avenue

43,000

—

100.0

%

—

484 Eighth Avenue

14,000

—

100.0

%

—

715 Lexington Avenue

32,000

—

—

—

825 Seventh Avenue

3,000

—

100.0

%

—

Total Other Retail

325,000

—

98.3

%

—

Total Retail Space

10,582,000

2,665,000

93.0

%

889,775

Vornado’s Ownership Interes

t

10,223,000

2,665,000

93.0

%

822,275

ASSETS HELD FOR SALE:

Vineland, New Jersey

143,000

—

5.6

%

—

Baltimore (Dundalk), Maryland

181,000

3,000

83.4

%

—

Total Assets Held for Sale

324,000

3,000

49.4

%

—

(1)

100% ground
and/or building leasehold interest; other than Green Acres, where approximately
10% of the ground is leased.

(2)

These
encumbrances are cross collateralized under a blanket mortgage in the amount of
$481,902 at December 31, 2003.


Merchandise
Mart Segment

The Merchandise Mart Properties are a portfolio of 9 properties
containing an aggregate of 8.6 million square feet.

Below is a breakdown of square feet by location and use as of
December 31, 2003.

In addition to the Office, Showroom and Retail space, the Merchandise
Mart Properties contains eight parking garages totaling 1,200,000 square feet
(3,600 spaces).  The garage space is
excluded from the statistics provided in this section.

Office Space

The following table sets forth the percentage of the Merchandise Mart
Properties 2003 office revenues by tenants’ industry during 2003:


The Company’s Merchandise Mart properties lease terms generally range
from three to seven years for smaller tenants to as long as 15 years for large
tenants. Leases typically provide for step-ups in rent periodically over the
term of the lease and pass through to tenants the tenants’ share of increases
in real estate taxes and operating expenses for a building over a base year.
Electricity is provided to tenants on a sub-metered basis or included in rent
and adjusted for subsequent utility rate increases. Leases also typically
provide for tenant improvement allowances for all or a portion of the tenant’s
initial construction of its premises.

No tenant in the Merchandise Mart properties segment accounted for more
than 10% of the Company’s 2003 total revenue. Below is a listing of the
Merchandise Mart Properties office tenants which accounted for 2% or more of
the Merchandise Mart Properties’ revenues in 2003:

The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average
annual escalated rent per square foot for the Merchandise Mart Properties’
office space at the end of each of the past five years.

During 2003, 270,000 square feet of Merchandise Mart Properties office
space was leased at a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $21.24,
a decrease of 5.3% over the weighted average escalated rent per square foot of
$22.44 for the leases expiring. 
Following is the detail by building:

(1)

Most
leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in the
initial rent per square foot leased.


The following table sets forth lease expirations for the Merchandise
Mart Properties office space as of December 31, 2003 for each of the next
10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.

Showroom Space

The showrooms provide manufacturers and wholesalers with permanent and
temporary space in which to display products for buyers, specifiers and end
users.  The showrooms are also used for
hosting trade shows for the contract furniture, casual furniture, gifts,
carpet, residential furnishings, building products, crafts, apparel and design
industries.  Merchandise Mart Properties
own and operate five of the leading furniture and gifts trade shows including
the contract furniture industry’s largest annual trade show, NeoCon, which
attracts over 40,000 attendees each June and is hosted at the Merchandise
Mart building in Chicago. The Market Square Complex co-hosts the home furniture
industry’s semi-annual (April and October) market weeks which occupy over
11,500,000 square feet in the High Point, North Carolina region.

The following table sets forth the percentage of the Merchandise Mart
Properties 2003 showroom revenues by tenants’ industry:


The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average
escalated rent per square foot for this space at the end of each of the past
five years.

During 2003, 1,157,000 square feet of Merchandise Mart Properties
showroom space was leased at a weighted average initial rent per square foot of
$23.43, a 0.6% increase over the weighted average escalated rent per square
foot of $23.28 for the leases expiring. Following is the detail by building:

(1)

Most
leases include periodic step-ups in rent which are not reflected in the initial
rent per square foot leased.

The following table sets forth lease expirations for the Merchandise
Mart Properties showroom space as of December 31, 2003 for each of the
next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.

Retail Space

The Merchandise Mart Properties portfolio also contains approximately
140,000 square feet of retail space which was 88.8% occupied at
December 31, 2003.


The following table sets forth the Merchandise Mart Properties owned by
the Company as of December 31, 2003:


Temperature
Controlled Logistics Segment

The Company has a 60% interest in Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership
(“the Landlord”) that owns 87 temperature controlled warehouses, through a
wholly-owned subsidiary (AmeriCold Realty Trust), with an aggregate of
approximately 440.7 million cubic feet. 
AmeriCold Logistics leases all of the partnerships’ facilities.  The Temperature Controlled Logistics segment
is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.

AmeriCold Logistics provides the food industry with refrigerated
warehousing and transportation management services. Refrigerated warehouses are
comprised of production, distribution and public facilities. Production
facilities typically serve one or a small number of customers, generally food
processors that are located nearby. These customers store large quantities of
processed or partially processed products in the facilities until they are
shipped to the next stage of production or distribution. Distribution
facilities primarily warehouse a wide variety of customers’ finished products
until future shipment to end-users. Each distribution facility generally
services the surrounding regional market. Public facilities generally serve the
needs of local and regional customers under short-term agreements. Food
manufacturers and processors use these facilities to store capacity overflow
from their production facilities or warehouses. AmeriCold Logistics’
transportation management services include freight routing, dispatching,
freight rate negotiation, backhaul coordination, freight bill auditing, network
flow management, order consolidation and distribution channel assessment.
AmeriCold Logistics’ temperature controlled logistics expertise
and access to both frozen food warehouses and
distribution channels enable its customers to respond quickly and
efficiently to time-sensitive orders from distributors and retailers.

AmeriCold Logistics’ customers consist primarily of national, regional
and local frozen food manufacturers, distributors, retailers and food service
organizations.  Below is a listing of
customers which accounted for 2% or more of AmeriCold Logistics’ revenue in
2003:

On February 5, 2004, AmeriCold Realty Trust completed a
$254,400,000 mortgage financing for 21 of its owned and 7 of its leased
temperature-controlled warehouses.  The
loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.95% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5% with
respect to $54,400,000 of the loan) and requires principal payments of
$5,000,000 annually.  The loan matures
in April 2009 and is pre-payable without penalty after February 5,
2006.  The net proceeds were
approximately $225,000,000 after providing for usual escrows, closing costs and
the repayment of $12,900,000 of existing mortgages on two of the warehouses, of
which $135,000,000 was distributed to the Company and the remainder was
distributed to its partner.

On February 23, 2004, AmeriCold Logistics announced that Alec
Covington resigned as President and Chief Executive Officer effective
March 31, 2004, to take an opportunity in an unrelated industry.  A search to identify a successor is currently
underway.


The following table sets forth certain information for the Temperature
Controlled Logistics properties as of December 31, 2003:


(1)

Leasehold interest


Alexander’s

The Company owns 33.1% of Alexander’s outstanding common shares.  The following table shows the location,
approximate size and leasing status of each of the properties owned by
Alexander’s as of December 31, 2003.

(1)

Excludes parking garages.

(2)

Excludes 339,000 square foot Macy’s
store, owned and operated by Federated Department Stores, Inc.

(3)

Leased by Alexander’s through
January 2027.

(4)

Ground leased to IKEA.

The development at Lexington Avenue consists of an approximately 1.3
million square foot multi-use building. 
The building will contain approximately 885,000 net rentable square feet
of office space, approximately 171,000 net rentable square feet of retail space
and approximately 248,000 net saleable square feet of residential space
consisting of condominium units (through a taxable REIT subsidiary
(“TRS”)).  Of the construction budget of
$630,000,000 (which excludes $29,000,000 for development and guarantee fees to
the Company), $402,000,000 has been expended through December 31, 2003 and
an additional $62,200,000 has been committed to at December 31, 2003.  Construction is expected to be completed in
2005.

Bloomberg L.P. has leased 695,000 square feet of the office space (the
“Bloomberg Space”).  On
November 15, 2003 Alexander’s delivered approximately 87% of that
space.  As of February 9, 2004, the
remainder of the Bloomberg space has been delivered.  At December 31, 2003, 115,000 square feet of retail space has
been leased, of which the Home Depot and Hennes & Mauritz have leased
83,000 and 27,000 square feet, respectively. 
The residential space is comprised of 105 condominium units.  The offering plan filed for these units, as
amended for price increases through December 31, 2003, would produce (inclusive
of the value of existing contracts) an aggregate sale price of
$457,000,000.  As of December 31,
2003, Alexander’s has received deposits of $10,425,000 on sales of the
condominium units.


On February 13, 2004, Alexander’s completed a $400,000,000
mortgage financing on the Office Space of its Lexington Avenue development
project placed by German American Capital Corporation, an affiliate of Deutsche
Bank.  The loan bears interest at 5.33%,
matures in February 2014 and beginning in the third year, provides for
principal payments based on a 25-year amortization schedule such that over
the remaining eight years of the loan, ten years of amortization will be paid.  Of the loan proceeds, $253,529,000 was used
to repay the entire amount outstanding under the Construction Loan with HVB
Real Estate Capital (Hypo).  The
Construction Loan was modified so that the remaining availability is
$237,000,000, which is approximately the amount estimated to complete the
Lexington Avenue development project. 
The interest rate on the Construction Loan is LIBOR plus 2.5% (currently
3.64%) and matures in January 2006, with two one-year extensions.  The collateral for the Construction Loan is
the same, except that the Office Space has been removed from the lien.  Further, the Construction Loan permits the
release of the retail space for $15,000,000 and requires all proceeds from the
sale of the residential condominiums units to be applied to the Construction
Loan balance until it is finally repaid. 
In connection with reducing the principal amount of the Construction
loan Alexander’s will write-off $3,050,000 of unamortized deferred financing
costs in the first quarter of 2004, of which the Company’s share is $1,010,000.

The Company has agreed to guarantee to the construction lender, the
lien free, timely completion of the construction of the project and funding of
project costs in excess of a stated loan budget, if not funded by Alexander’s
(the “Completion Guarantee”).  The
$6,300,000 estimated fee payable by Alexander’s to the Company for the
Completion Guarantee is 1% of construction costs (as defined).  Based upon the current status of
construction, Management does not anticipate the need to fund pursuant to the
Completion Guarantee.


The
Newkirk Master Limited Partnership

In 1998, the Company and affiliates of Apollo Real Estate Investment
Fund III, L.P. (“Apollo”) formed a joint venture (30% owned by the Company and
70% owned by Apollo) (“Newkirk JV”) to acquire general and limited partnership
interests in a portfolio of 104 partnerships, which own triple net leased
properties.  Since its formation,
Newkirk JV has acquired equity interests in the above partnerships, which own
approximately 19.6 million square feet of real estate and acquired certain
first and second mortgages (“Contract Rights”) secured by a portion of these
properties.  On January 1, 2002,
Newkirk JV completed a merger of 91 of the partnerships as well as the other
assets it owned relating to the other 13 partnerships into The Newkirk Master
Limited Partnership (“MLP”).  The
partnerships were merged into MLP to create a vehicle to enable the partners to
have greater access to capital and future investment opportunities.  In connection with the merger, the Company
received limited partner interests in the MLP equal to an approximate 21.1%
interest and Apollo received limited partner interests in the MLP equal to an approximate
54.5% interest. At December 31, 2003, the Company has a 22.6% interest in
the MLP and Apollo has a 54.1% interest. 
Newkirk JV is the general partner of the MLP.

Simultaneously with the merger on January 1, 2002, the MLP
completed a $225,000,000 secured financing collateralized by its interests in
the entities that own the properties, subject to the existing first and certain
second mortgages on those properties. The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus
5.5% with a LIBOR floor of 3% (8.5% at December 31, 2003) and matures on
January 31, 2005, with two one-year extension options. As a result of the
financing, on February 6, 2002 the MLP repaid approximately $28,200,000 of
existing joint venture debt and distributed approximately $37,000,000 to the Company.

On November 24, 2003, Newkirk JV and the MLP
obtained new financing in the amount of $525,000,000.  Of this amount $316,527,000 is secured by the Contract Rights and
guaranteed by the MLP and $208,473,000 is secured by the assets of the
MLP.  The loan bears interest at a rate
equal to the lesser of (i) LIBOR plus 4.5% or (ii) Prime plus 2.5%.  The loan matures on November 24, 2006
and has two one-year extensions.  The
proceeds of the loan were used primarily to repay the MLP’s outstanding balance
of the existing $225,000,000 credit facility and to distribute funds to its
partners, of which the Company’s share was $74,106,000.

The Company’s share of the MLP and the joint venture debt was
approximately $266,024,000 at December 31, 2003.


The following table sets forth a summary of the real
estate owned by the MLP:

As of December 31, 2003, the occupancy rate of
the properties is 99.4%.

The primary lease terms range from 20 to 25 years from
their original commencement dates with rents, typically above market, which
fully amortize the first mortgage debt on the properties.  In addition, tenants generally have multiple
renewal options, with rents, on average, below market.

Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2%
or more of the MLP’s revenues in 2003:

The following table sets forth lease expirations for
each of the next 10 years, as of December 31, 2003, assuming that none of
the tenants exercise their renewal options.


The following table sets forth The Newkirk Master Limited
Partnership Properties as of December 31, 2003:



(1)  leasehold interest.


Hotel Pennsylvania

The Hotel Pennsylvania is located in New York City on
Seventh Avenue opposite Madison Square Garden and consists of a hotel portion
containing 1,000,000 square feet of hotel space with 1,700 rooms and a
commercial portion containing 400,000 square feet of retail and office space.

The Hotel is dependent on tourism and was severely
impacted by the events of September 11, 2001, accelerating a trend that
began in the first quarter of 2001.  The
following table presents rental information for the Hotel:

Dry
Warehouse/Industrial Properties

The Company’s dry warehouse/industrial properties
consist of eight buildings in New Jersey containing approximately
2.0 million square feet.  The
average term of a tenant’s lease is three to five years.

The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and
average annual rent per square foot at the end of each of the past
five years.

(1)   Excludes East Brunswick warehouse currently
under development.

In November 2002, the Company entered into an
agreement to ground lease its East Brunswick industrial property to
Lowe’s.  The Company will demolish the
existing warehouse containing 326,000 square feet and Lowe’s will
construct its own retail store.  This
lease is expected to commence in approximately 12 to 18 months.

400 North LaSalle

The
400 North LaSalle venture was formed in July 2001, to develop a 381,000 square
foot, high-rise residential tower with an attached parking garage in Chicago
Illinois, containing 452 apartments. 
Under the agreement the Company contributed 92% of the equity and is
entitled to receive 85% of the profits. 
The development of the residential tower and garage was substantially
completed and phased into service as of January 2004.  As of December 31, 2003, the tower is 22.5% occupied.


ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is from time to time involved in legal
actions arising in the ordinary course of its business.  In the opinion of management, after
consultation with legal counsel, the outcome of such matters, including in respect
of the matter referred to below, is not expected to have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operation.

Stop & Shop

On January 8, 2003, Stop & Shop filed a
complaint with the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
(“USDC-NJ”) claiming the Company has no right to reallocate and therefore
continue to collect the $5,000,000 of annual rent from Stop & Shop
pursuant to the Master Agreement and Guaranty, because of the expiration of the
East Brunswick, Jersey City, Middletown, Union and Woodbridge leases
to which the $5,000,000 of additional rent was previously allocated.  Stop & Shop asserted that a prior order
of the Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York dated February 6,
2001, as modified on appeal to the District Court for the Southern District of
New York on February 13, 2001, terminated the Company’s right to
reallocate.  On March 3, 2003, after the
Company moved to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction, Stop & Shop voluntarily
withdrew its complaint.

On March 26, 2003, Stop & Shop filed a new
complaint in New York Supreme Court, asserting substantially the same claims as
in its USDC-NJ complaint.  On April 9,
2003, the Company moved the New York Supreme Court action to the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York.  On June 30, 2003, the District Court ordered that the case be
placed in suspension and ordered the parties to proceed in a related case that
the Company commenced in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern
District of New York.  On July 24,
2003, the Bankruptcy Court referred the related case to mediation.  The Company believes that the additional
rent provision of the guaranty expires at the earliest in 2012 and will
vigorously oppose Stop & Shop’s complaint.


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2003.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following is a list of the names, ages, principal
occupations and positions with Vornado of the executive officers of Vornado and
the positions held by such officers during the past five years. All executive
officers of Vornado have terms of office that run until the next succeeding
meeting of the Board of Trustees of Vornado following the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders unless they are removed sooner by the Board.


PART
II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

Vornado’s common shares are traded on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol “VNO”.

Quarterly closing price ranges of the common shares
and dividends paid per share for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002 were as follows:

(1)

Comprised of a regular
quarterly dividend of $.71 per share and a special capital gain cash
dividend of $.16 per share.

On March 1, 2004, there were 1,707 holders of
record of the Company’s common shares.

Recent Sales of
Unregistered Securities

During 2003, 2002, and 2001 the Company issued
737,212, 176,848, and 6,002 common shares, respectively, upon the
redemption of Class A units of the Operating Partnership held by persons
who received units in private placements in earlier periods in exchange for
their interests in limited partnerships that owned real estate. The common
shares were issued without registration under the Securities Act of 1933 in
reliance on Section 4(2) of that Act.

Information relating to compensation plans under which
equity securities of the Company are authorized for issuance is set forth under
Part III, Item 12 of this annual report on Form 10-K and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM
6.          SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


(1)

Funds From
Operations (“FFO”) does not represent cash generated from operating activities
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund
cash needs which is disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
the applicable periods.  FFO should not
be considered as an alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company’s
operating performance or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of
liquidity.  Management considers FFO a
relevant supplemental measure of operating performance because it provides a
basis for comparison among REITs.  FFO
is computed in accordance with NAREIT’s definition, which may not be comparable
to FFO reported by other REITs that do not compute FFO in accordance with
NAREIT’s definition.

(2)

Operating results
for the year ended December 31, 2002, reflect the Company’s
January 1, 2002 acquisition of the remaining 66% of Charles E. Smith
Commercial Realty L.P. (“CESCR”) and the resulting consolidation of CESCR’s
operations.


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


Overview

The Company owns
and operates office, retail and showroom properties with large concentrations
of office and retail properties in the New York City metropolitan area and in
the Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia area.  In addition, the Company has a 60% interest in a partnership that
owns cold storage warehouses nationwide.

The Company’s
business objective is to maximize shareholder value.  The Company’s measures its success in meeting this objective by
the total return to its shareholders. 
Below is a table comparing the Company’s performance to the Morgan
Stanley REIT Index (“RMS”) for the following periods ending December 31, 2003:

(1)

From inception on
July 25, 1995

The Company
intends to continue to achieve its business objective by pursuing its
investment philosophy and executing its operating strategies through:

•

Maintaining
a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an
entrepreneurial spirit.

•

Investing in properties in select
markets, such as New York City and Washington, D.C., where we believe there is
high likelihood of capital appreciation.

•

Acquiring
quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a
significant potential for higher rents.

•

Investing in retail properties in
select under-stored locations such as the New York City metropolitan area.

•

Developing/redeveloping the Company’s
existing properties to increase returns and maximize value.

The Company
competes with a large number of real estate property owners and
developers.  Principal factors of competition
are rent charged, attractiveness of location and quality and breadth of
services provided.  The Company’s
success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local
economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective
tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and
renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation and population
trends.  The current economic recovery
is fostered, in part, by low interest rates, Federal tax cuts, and increases in
government spending.  To the extent this
recovery stalls, the Company may experience lower occupancy rates which may
lead to lower initial rental rates, higher leasing costs and a corresponding
decrease in net income, funds from operations and cash flow.  Alternatively, if the recovery continues,
the Company may experience higher occupancy rates leading to higher initial
rents and higher interest rates causing an increase in the Company’s weighted
average cost of capital and a corresponding effect on net income, funds from
operations and cash flow.


Overvie

w – Leasing Activity

The following table summarizes,
by business segment, the leasing statistics which the Company views as key
performance indicators.

In addition to the leasing
activity in the table above, in the year ended December 31, 2003,
66,000 square feet of retail space included in the New York City Office
segment was leased at an initial rent of $220.97 per square foot and in the
three months ended December 31, 2003, 21,000 square feet of retail space was
leased at an initial rent of $278.27.


Overview – Leasing Activity

(1)

Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in
the initial rent per square foot leased.


Critical
Accounting Policies

In preparing the consolidated financial statements
management has made estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual
results could differ from those estimates. 
Set forth below is a summary of the accounting policies that management
believes are critical to the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements.   The summary should be read
in conjunction with the more complete discussion of the Company’s accounting
policies included in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in this
annual report on Form 10-K.

Real Estate

Real estate is carried at cost, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization.  As of
December 31, 2003, the Company’s carrying amount of its real estate, net of
accumulated depreciation is $6.9 billion. 
Maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.  Depreciation requires an estimate by
management of the useful life of each property and improvement as well as an
allocation of the costs associated with a property to its various
components.  If the Company does not
allocate these costs appropriately or incorrectly estimates the useful lives of
its real estate, depreciation expense may be misstated.

Upon acquisitions of real estate, the Company assesses
the fair value of acquired assets (including land, buildings, tenant
improvements and beginning in 2002, identified intangibles such as acquired
above and below market leases and the value of acquired in-place leases in
accordance with Statements of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141
and 142) and acquired liabilities, and allocates purchase price based on these
assessments.  The Company assesses fair
value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate
discount and capitalization rates and available market information.  Estimates of future cash flows are based on
a number of factors including the historical operating results, known trends,
and market/economic conditions that may affect the property.  The Company’s properties are reviewed for
impairment if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying
amount of the assets may not be recoverable. 
If the Company incorrectly estimates the values at acquisition or the
undiscounted cash flows, initial allocations of purchase price and future
impairment charges may be different. 
The impact of the Company’s estimates in connection with acquisitions
and future impairment analysis could be material to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.

Identified Intangible Assets and Goodwill

Upon an
acquisition of a business the Company records intangible assets acquired at
their estimated fair value separate and apart from goodwill.  The Company amortizes identified intangible
assets that are determined to have finite lives which are based on the period
over which the assets are expected to contribute directly or indirectly to the
future cash flows of the business acquired. 
Intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount
may not be recoverable.  An impairment
loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an intangible asset is not
recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value.

The
excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the net of the amounts assigned
to assets acquired (including identified intangible assets) and liabilities
assumed is recorded as goodwill. 
Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at a level of
reporting referred to as a reporting unit on an annual basis, or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might
be impaired.  An impairment loss for an
asset group is allocated to the long-lived assets of the group on a pro rata
basis using the relative carrying amounts of those assets, unless the fair
value of specific components of the reporting group are determinable without
undue cost and effort.

As of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, the carrying amounts of the Company’s identified
intangible assets are $106,281,000 and $50,487,000 and the carrying amount of
goodwill is $4,345,000 (arising from the 2003 acquisition of Building
Maintenance Services) and $0, respectively. 
Such amounts are included in other assets on the Company’s consolidated
balance sheet.  In addition, the Company
has $47,266,000 and $48,430,000, of deferred credits as of December 31, 2003
and 2002, which are included as liabilities on the Company’s consolidated
balance sheet.  If the Company
incorrectly estimates the fair value of these assets at acquisition or in connection
with impairment testing, or incorrectly estimates the useful lives of
finite-life intangible assets, the impact to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements could be material.


Notes and Mortgage Loans Receivable

The Company’s policy is to record mortgages and notes
receivable at the stated principal amount net of any discount or premiums.  As of December 31, 2003, the carrying amount
of Notes and Mortgage Loans receivable was $285,965,000.  The Company accretes or amortizes any
discounts or premiums over the life of the related loan receivable utilizing
the effective interest method.  The
Company evaluates the collectibility of both interest and principal of each of
its loans, if circumstances warrant, to determine whether it is impaired. A
loan is considered to be impaired, when based on current information and
events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts
due according to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is considered to
be impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the
recorded investment to the value determined by discounting the expected future
cash flows at the loan’s effective interest rate or, as a practical expedient,
to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.  Interest on impaired loans is recognized on
a cash basis.

Partially-Owned Entities

As of December 31, 2003, the carrying amount of
investments and advances to partially-owned entities, including Alexander’s,
was $900,600,000.  The Company considers
APB 18 – The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, SOP
78-9 – Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures, EITF 96-16 –
Investors Accounting for an Investee When the Investor has the Majority of the
Voting Interest but the Minority Partners have Certain Approval or Veto Rights,
to determine the method of accounting for each of its partially-owned
entities.  In determining whether the
Company has a controlling interest in a partially-owned entity and the
requirement to consolidate the accounts of that entity, it considers factors
such as ownership interest, board representation, management representation,
authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive participating
rights of the partners/members. The Company has concluded that it does not
control a partially-owned entity, despite an ownership interest of 50% or
greater, if the approval of all of the partners/members is contractually
required with respect to major decisions, such as operating and capital
budgets, the sale, exchange or other disposition of real property, the hiring
of a chief executive officer, the commencement, compromise or settlement of any
lawsuit, legal proceeding or arbitration or the placement of new or additional
financing secured by assets of the venture. 
This is the case with respect to the Company’s 60% interest in
Temperature Controlled Logistics, 80% interest in Starwood Ceruzzi Venture, and
50% interests in Monmouth Mall, MartParc Wells, MartParc Orleans, and 825
Seventh Avenue.

If the Company is able to unilaterally make decisions
for a partially-owned entity, the Company has concluded that it controls the
entity and therefore consolidates the entity. 
The Company accounts for investments on the equity method when its
ownership interest is greater than 20% and less than 50%, and the Company does
not have direct or indirect control. 
When partially-owned entities are in partnership form, the 20% threshold
may be reduced.  Equity method
investments are initially recorded at cost and subsequently adjusted for the
Company’s share of net income or loss and cash contributions and distributions
to and from these entities.  All other
investments are accounted for on the cost method.

On a periodic basis the Company evaluates whether
there are any indicators that the value of the Company’s investments in
partially-owned entities are impaired. 
The ultimate realization of the Company’s investment in partially-owned
entities is dependent on a number of factors including the performance of the
investee and market conditions.  If the
Company determines that a decline in the value of the investee is other than
temporary, an impairment charge would be recorded.

Allowance For Doubtful Accounts

The Company periodically evaluates the collectibility
of amounts due from tenants and maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts
($15,246,000 as at December 31, 2003) for estimated losses resulting from the
inability of tenants to make required payments under the lease agreement.  The Company also maintains an allowance for
receivables arising from the straight-lining of rents ($2,830,000 as at
December 31, 2003).  This receivable
arises from earnings recognized in excess of amounts currently due under the
lease agreements.  Management exercises
judgment in establishing these allowances and considers payment history and
current credit status in developing these estimates.  If estimates differ from actual results, this would impact
reported results.


Revenue Recognition

The Company has the following revenue sources and
revenue recognition policies:

•

Base Rents — income arising from tenant leases.  These rents are recognized over the
non-cancelable term of the related leases on a straight-line basis which
includes the effects of rent steps and rent abatements under the leases.

•

Percentage Rents — income arising from retail tenant
leases which are contingent upon the sales of the tenant exceeding a defined
threshold.  These rents are recognized
in accordance with SAB 104, which states that this income is to be recognized
only after the contingency has been removed (i.e. sales thresholds have been
achieved).

•

Hotel Revenues — income arising from the operation
of the Hotel Pennsylvania which consists of rooms revenue, food and beverage
revenue, and banquet revenue.  Income is
recognized when rooms are occupied. 
Food and beverage and banquet revenue are recognized when the services
have been rendered.

•

Trade Show Revenues — income arising from the
operation of trade shows, including rentals of booths.  This revenue is recognized in accordance
with the booth rental contracts when the trade shows have occurred.

•

Expense Reimbursements — revenue arising from tenant
leases which provide for the recovery of all or a portion of the operating
expenses and real estate taxes of the respective property.  This revenue is accrued in the same periods
as the expenses are incurred.

Before
the Company recognizes revenue, it assesses among other things, its
collectibility.  If the Company
incorrectly determines the collectibility of its revenue, its net income and
assets could be misstated.

Income

Taxes

The Company operates in a manner
intended to enable it to continue to qualify as a Real Estate Investment Trust
(“REIT”) under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended. Under those sections, a REIT which distributes at least 90% of its
REIT taxable income as a dividend to its shareholders each year and which meets
certain other conditions will not be taxed on that portion of its taxable
income which is distributed to its shareholders. The Company intends to
distribute to its shareholders 100% of its taxable income.  Therefore, no provision for Federal income
taxes is required.  If the Company fails
to distribute the required amount of income to its shareholders, it would fail
to qualify as a REIT and substantial adverse tax consequences may result.


Net income and EBITDA for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

Below is a summary of Net income and EBITDA(1) by
segment for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.  On January 1, 2003, the Company revised its
definition of EBITDA to comply with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
Regulation G concerning non-GAAP financial measures.  The revised definition of EBITDA includes
minority interest, gains (losses) on the sale of depreciable real estate and
income arising from the straight-lining of rent and the amortization of
acquired in-place leases.  Accordingly,
EBITDA for all periods disclosed represents “Earnings before Interest, Taxes,
Depreciation and Amortization.” 
Management considers EBITDA a supplemental measure for making decisions
and assessing the unlevered performance of its segments as it is related to the
return on assets as opposed to the levered return on equity.  As properties are bought and sold based on a
multiple of EBITDA, management utilizes this measure to make investment
decisions as well as to compare the performance of its assets to that of its
peers.  EBITDA is not a surrogate for
net income because net income is after interest expense and accordingly, is a
measure of return on equity as opposed to return on assets.

Included in EBITDA are gains on sale of real estate of
$161,789, of which $157,200 and $4,589 relate to the Office and Retail
segments, respectively.

See Notes on page 75.


See Notes on page 75.


Included in EBITDA are gains on sale of real estate of
$15,495, of which and $12,445 and $3,050 relate to the Office and Retail
segments, respectively.

See Notes on page 75.


Notes
to the preceding tabular information:

(1)

EBITDA should not
be considered a substitute for net income. 
EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by
other companies.

(2)

Interest and debt
expense and depreciation and amortization included in the reconciliation of net
income to EBITDA include amounts which are netted in income from
partially-owned entities in order to present the income from partially-owned
entities on an EBITDA basis.

(3)

Other EBITDA is
comprised of:

(A)

Includes net gains of $9,200
on sales of real estate and $1,600 on the early extinguishment of debt,
partially offset by a charge of $1,210 for an impairment loss and a litigation
settlement.

(B)

EBITDA for the year ended
December 31, 2003, reflects the Company’s share of Alexander’s stock
appreciation rights compensation expense of $14,868 and the Company’s $1,589
share of EBITDA resulting from the commencement of Alexander’s lease with
Bloomberg (87% of the space) on November 15, 2003 at Alexander’s 731 Lexington
Avenue property.  EBITDA for the year
ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 includes $3,524 and $6,298, respectively
representing the Company’s share of Alexander’s gain on the sale of its Third
Avenue and Fordham Road properties.

The following table sets forth the percentage of the
Company’s EBITDA by segment for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001.  EBITDA for the year ended
December 31, 2003, includes gains on sale of real estate of $161,789,000, of
which $157,200,000 and $4,589,000 relate to the New York Office and Retail
segments, respectively.  The
pro forma column gives effect to the January 1, 2002 acquisition by
the Company of the remaining 66% interest in CESCR described previously as if
it had occurred on January 1, 2001.


Results
Of Operations

Years Ended Decembe

r 31,
2003 and December 31, 2002

Revenues

The Company’s revenues, which consist of property
rentals, tenant expense reimbursements, hotel revenues, trade shows
revenues, amortization of acquired below market leases net of above market
leases pursuant to SFAS No. 141 and 142, and fee income, were
$1,503,055,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $1,392,239,000
in the prior year, an increase of $110,816,000.  Below are the details of the increase by segment:

See notes on following page.

See Leasing Activity on page 67 for further
details and corresponding changes in occupancy.


Notes to preceding tabular
information:

(1)

Average occupancy
and REVPAR for the Hotel Pennsylvania were 64% and $58 for the year ended
December 31, 2003 compared to 65% and $58 for the prior year.

(2)

Reflects an
increase of $2,841 resulting from the rescheduling of two trade shows from the
fourth quarter of 2002, in which they were previously held to the first quarter
of 2003, and $1,400 relates to a new show held for the first time in 2003,
partially offset by lower trade show revenue in 2003 primarily due to a smaller
April Market show as a result of a conversion of trade show space to permanent
space.

(3)

Reflects increases
of $12,953 from New York City Office leasing activity and $2,901 from CESCR’s
leasing activity.  These increases
resulted primarily from higher rents for space relet in 2003 and 2002 (full
year impact in 2003 as compared to a partial year in 2002) and an increase in
CESCR occupancy of .3% this year, partially offset by a decrease in NYC office
occupancy of .6%.  Initial rent for the
677 square feet of space relet in New York City was $44.41 per square foot in
2003, a 15.3% increase over prior escalated rent.  Initial rent for the 2,510 square feet of space relet in CESCR
portfolio was $30.62 per square foot a 2.5% increase over prior escalated
rents.  For further details of NYC and
CESCR office leasing activity see page 67.

(4)

Resulted primarily
from (i) an increase in the occupancy rate from 88.3% at December 31, 2002 to
93.0% at December 31, 2003 as a result of leasing space previously vacated by
Bradlees and Kmart and (ii) higher rents for space relet in 2003 and 2002 (full
year impact in 2003 as compared to a partial year in 2002).  Initial rent for the 1,046 square feet of
space relet in 2003 was $15.56 per square foot, a 13.2% increase over prior
rent.  For further details of Retail
leasing activity see page 67.

(5)

Reflects an
increase in occupancy of Merchandise Mart office space of 0.9% from 2002,
higher rents for 1,157 square feet of showroom space relet in 2003 and 911
square feet relet in 2002 (full year impact in 2003 as compared to partial year
impact in 2002), partially offset by a decrease in Merchandise Mart showroom
occupancy of .1% from 2002 and lower rents for 270 square feet of office space
relet in 2003.  Initial rents for the
1,157 square feet of showroom space relet in 2003 was $23.43, a 0.6% increase
over prior escalated rent.  Initial
rents for the 270 square feet of office space relet in 2003 was $21.24, a 5.3%
decrease over prior escalated rent.  For
further details of Merchandise Mart leasing activity see page 67.

(6)

Reflects higher
reimbursements from tenants resulting primarily from increases in real estate
taxes.  The increases in Office and
Retail were $19,383 and $3,247, before reductions of $2,215 and $1,407 in the
current quarter relating to the true-up of prior year’s billings.

(7)

Results primarily
from a $3,444 decrease in CESCR third party leasing revenue from $7,100 in 2002
to $3,656 in 2003 as a result of the closing of one of the CESCR leasing
offices.


Expenses

The Company’s expenses were $921,097,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2003, compared to $852,370,000 in the prior year, an
increase of $68,727,000.  Below are the
details of the increase (decrease) by segment:

See notes on following page.


Notes
to preceding tabular information:

(1)

The increase in
Hotel Pennsylvania’s operating expenses was primarily due to a $1,700 increase
in real estate taxes and a $500 increase in utility costs over the prior year.

(2)

Results primarily
from the rescheduling of two trade shows from the fourth quarter of 2002, in
which they were previously held to the first quarter of 2003, and due to a new
trade show held for the first time in 2003.

(3)

Below are the
details of the increases (decreases) in operating expenses by segment:

(a) Relates primarily to an increase in New York Office.

(4)

Increases in
depreciation and amortization for the Office and Merchandise Mart segments are
primarily due to additions to buildings and improvements.

(5)

The increase in
general and administrative expenses results from:

As part of the 2002 annual compensation review, in
lieu of stock options, on January 28, 2003 the Company granted 166,990
restricted shares at $34.50 per share (the then closing stock price on the
NYSE) to employees of the Company. 
These awards vest over a 5-year period. 
Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
over the vesting period.  In the year
ended December 31, 2003, the Company recognized stock-based compensation
expense of $1,898,000 (excluding severance charges), of which $1,020,000
related to January 2003 restricted stock awards.


Income
Applicable to Alexander’s

Income applicable to Alexander’s (interest income,
management, leasing, development and commitment fees, and equity in income) was
$15,574,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $29,653,000 in
the prior year, a decrease of $14,079,000. 
This decrease resulted primarily from (i) Alexander’s stock appreciation
rights compensation expense of which the Company’s share was $14,868,000 in
2003 compared to zero in 2002, partially offset by (ii) Alexander’s gain on the
sale of its Third Avenue property of which the Company’s share was $3,524,000
in 2002, and (iii) income resulting from the commencement of the lease with
Bloomberg (87% of the space) on November 15, 2003 at Alexander’s 731 Lexington
Avenue property of which the Company’s share was $1,589,000.

Income from Partially-Owned Entities

Below are the condensed statements of operations of
the Company’s unconsolidated subsidiaries as well as the increase (decrease) in
income from these partially-owned entities for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002:

See notes on following page.


Notes to preceding information:

(1)

The increase
reflects the Company’s share of the following items from the Newkirk MLP in
2003 including (i) $7,200 of net gains on the sale of 11 properties, (ii) a
gain of $1,600 on the early extinguishment of debt, partially offset by, (iii)
a charge of $538 in connection with a litigation claim, (iv) a charge of $353
for an asset impairment and (v) $930 in Federal and state taxes.

(2)

The Company
reflects its 60% share of Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership’s (the
“Landlord”) rental income it receives from AmeriCold Logistics, its tenant,
which leases the underlying temperature controlled warehouses used in its
business.  The Company’s joint venture
does not recognize rental income unless earned and collection is assured or
cash is received.  The Company did not
recognize $25,087 of rent it was due for the year ended December 31, 2003,
which together with previously deferred rent is $49,436.  The following summarizes the increase in
income for the year ended December 31, 2003 over the prior year:

On February 23, 2004, AmeriCold Logistics
announced that Alec Covington resigned as President and Chief Executive Officer
effective March 31, 2004, to take an opportunity in an unrelated industry.  A search to identify a successor is
currently underway.

(3)

The Company
acquired a 50% interest in the Monmouth Mall on October 10, 2002.  Equity in net income of the Monmouth Mall
includes the Company’s preferred return of $3,290 and $748 for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002.

(4)

On September 23,
2002, the Company acquired the remaining 50% of the Mall and 25% of the Kmart
anchor store it did not previously own. 
Accordingly, the operations of Las Catalinas are consolidated into the
accounts of the Company subsequent to September 23, 2002.


Interest and
Other Investment Income

Interest and other investment income (interest income
on mortgage loans receivable, other interest income and dividend income) was
$25,402,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $31,685,000 in
the year ended December 31, 2002, a decrease of $6,283,000.  This decrease resulted primarily from
(i) lower average investments at lower yields, partially offset by
(ii) $5,655,000 of contingent interest income recognized in connection
with the repayment of the Dearborn Center loan and (iii) $5,028,000 of interest
income recognized on the $225,000,000 GM Building mezzanine loans, for the
period from October 20, 2003 through December 31, 2003.

Interest and Debt Expense

Interest and debt expense was $229,662,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2003, compared to $234,113,000 in the year ended December
31, 2002, a decrease of $4,451,000. 
This decrease was primarily comprised of a $11,285,000 savings from a 77
basis point reduction in weighted average interest rates of the Company’s
variable rate debt, partially offset by (i) the consolidation as of
September 2002 of the Las Catalinas operations which were previously
included in income from partially-owned entities, (ii) a full year of interest
expense on the Company’s $500,000,000 Senior Unsecured Notes due 2007 which
were issued in June 2002 and (iii) a reduction in interest capitalized in
connection with development projects.

Net (Loss) Gain on Disposition of Wholly-owned and
Partially-owned Assets other than Depreciable Real Estate

The following table sets forth the details of net
(loss) gain on disposition of wholly-owned and partially-owned assets other
than depreciable real estate for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002:

Primestone Foreclosure and
Impairment Losses

On September 28, 2000, the Company made a $62,000,000
loan to Primestone Investment Partners, L.P. (“Primestone”). The Company
received a 1% up-front fee and was entitled to receive certain other fees
aggregating approximately 3% upon repayment of the loan. The loan bore interest
at 16% per annum.  Primestone defaulted
on the repayment of this loan on October 25, 2001. The loan was subordinate to
$37,957,000 of other debt of the borrower that liened the Company’s collateral.
On October 31, 2001, the Company purchased the other debt for its face
amount.  The loans were secured by
7,944,893 partnership units in Prime Group Realty, L.P., the operating
partnership of Prime Group Realty Trust (NYSE:PGE) and the partnership units
are exchangeable for the same number of common shares of PGE.  The loans were also guaranteed by affiliates
of Primestone.

On November 19, 2001, the Company sold, pursuant to a
participation agreement with a subsidiary of Cadim inc., a Canadian
pension fund, a 50% participation in both loans at par for approximately
$50,000,000 reducing the Company’s net investment in the loans at December 31,
2001 to $56,768,000 including unpaid interest and fees of $6,790,000.  The participation did not meet the criteria
for “sale accounting” under SFAS 140 because Cadim was not free to pledge
or exchange the assets.  Accordingly,
the Company was required to account for this transaction as a borrowing secured
by the loan, rather than as a sale of the loan by classifying the participation
as an “Other Liability” and continuing to report the outstanding loan balance
at 100% in “Notes and Mortgage Loans Receivable” on the balance sheet.


On April 30, 2002, the Company and Cadim acquired the
7,944,893 partnership units at a foreclosure auction.   The price paid for the units by application of a portion of
Primestone’s indebtedness to the Company and Cadim was $8.35 per unit, the
April 30, 2002 closing price of shares of PGE on the New York Stock
Exchange.  On June 28, 2002, pursuant to
the terms of the participation agreement, the Company transferred 3,972,447 of
the partnership units to Cadim.

In the second quarter of 2002, in accordance with
foreclosure accounting, the Company recorded a loss on the Primestone foreclosure
of $17,671,000 calculated based on (i) the acquisition price of the units
and (ii) its valuation of the amounts realizable under the guarantees by
affiliates of Primestone, as compared with the net carrying amount of the
investment at April 30, 2002.   In the
third quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a $2,229,000 write-down on its
investment based on costs expended to realize the value of the guarantees.  Further, in the fourth quarter of 2002, the
Company recorded a $15,857,000 write-down of its investment in Prime Group
consisting of (i) $14,857,000 to adjust the carrying amount of the Prime Group
units to $4.61 per unit, the closing price of PGE shares on the New York Stock
Exchange at December 31, 2002 and (ii) $1,000,000 for estimated costs
to realize the value of the guarantees. 
The Company considered the decline in the value of the units which are
convertible into stock to be other than temporary as of December 31, 2002,
based on the fact that the market value of the stock had been less than its
cost for more than six months, the severity of the decline, market trends, the
financial condition and near-term prospects of Prime Group and other relevant
factors.

At December 31, 2002, the Company’s carrying amount of
the investment was $23,908,000, of which $18,313,000 represents the carrying
amount of the 3,972,447 partnership units owned by the Company ($4.61 per
unit), $6,100,000 represents the amount expected to be realized under the
guarantees, partially offset by $1,005,000 representing the Company’s share of
Prime Group’s net loss through September 30, 2002, as the Company recorded
its share of Prime Group’s earnings on a one-quarter lag basis.

On June 11, 2003, the Company exercised its right to
exchange the 3,972,447 units it owned in Prime Group Realty L.P. for 3,972,447
common shares in Prime Group Realty Trust. 
Prior to the exchange, the Company accounted for its investment in the
partnership on the equity method. 
Subsequent to the exchange, the Company is accounting for its investment
in PGE as a marketable equity security-available for sale, as the Company’s
shares represent less than a 20% ownership interest in PGE (which is not a
partnership), the Company does not have significant influence and the common
shares have a readily determinable fair value. 
Accordingly, the carrying amount previously included in Investments and
Advances to Partially-Owned Entities was reclassified to Marketable Securities
on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. 
The Company is also required to mark these securities to market based on
the closing price of the PGE shares on the NYSE at the end of each reporting
period.  For the period from June 11,
2003 through December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a $6,623,000 unrealized
gain, which is not included in the Company’s net income, but is reflected as a
component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss in the Shareholders’ Equity
section of the consolidated balance sheet. 
From the date of exchange, income recognition is limited to dividends
received on the PGE shares.

On June 13, 2003, the Company received its $5,000,000
share of a settlement with affiliates of Primestone Investment Partners of the
amounts due under the guarantees of the Primestone loans.  In connection therewith, the Company
recognized a $1,388,000 loss on settlement of the guarantees, which has been
reflected as a component of “net gains on disposition of wholly-owned and
partially-owned assets” in the Company’s 2003 consolidated statement of income.

Gain on Transfer of Mortgages

In the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company
recorded a net gain of $2,096,000 resulting from payments to the Company by
third parties that assumed certain of the Company’s mortgages.  Under these transactions the Company paid to
the third parties that assumed the Company’s obligations the outstanding
amounts due under the mortgages and the third parties paid the Company for the
benefit of assuming the mortgages.  The
Company has been released by the creditors underlying these loans.


Minority Interest

Minority interest was $178,675,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2003, compared to $140,933,000 for the prior year, an increase of
$37,742,000.  The increase is primarily
due to higher income in 2003, primarily as a result of of net gains on sale of
real estate of $161,789,000, and an increase in preferred unit distributions of
$2,187,000, representing the original issuance costs on the redemption of the
Series D-1 preferred units.

Discontinued Operations

Assets related to discontinued operations consist
primarily of real estate, net of accumulated depreciation.  The following table set forth the balances
of the assets related to discontinued operations as of December 31, 2003 and
2002.

Liabilities related to discontinued operations
represent the Palisades mortgage payable of $120,000,000 and $100,000,000 as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002 respectively.

The combined results of operations of the assets
related to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and
2002 are as follows:

On February 2, 2004, the Palisades Venture in which
the Company owns a 75% interest entered into an agreement to sell its only
asset, a 538 unit high-rise residential apartment tower in Fort Lee, New
Jersey, for $222,500,000.  On February
27, 2004, in order to permit a potential “like kind exchange,” the Company
acquired the remaining 25% interest it did not previously own for its partner’s
share of the net sales price (approximately $17,000,000).  The Company’s gain on sale after closing costs
will be approximately $70,000,000.  The
sale, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to be
completed by the third quarter of 2004.

Gains on Sales of Real Estate ( Discontinued
Operations in 2003)

On January 9,
2003, the Company sold its Baltimore, Maryland shopping center for $4,752,000,
which resulted in a net gain after closing costs of $2,644,000.

On October 10,
2003, the Company sold Two Park Avenue, a 965,000 square –foot office building,
for $292,000,000 to SEB Immobelien-Investment GNBH, a German capital investment
company, which resulted in a net gain on the sale after closing costs of
$156,433,000.

On November 3,
2003, the Company sold its Hagerstown, Maryland shopping center for $3,100,000,
which resulted in a net gain on sale after closing costs of $1,945,000.


Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle

In September 2001, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

(effective January 1, 2002).  SFAS
No. 142 specifies that goodwill and some intangible assets will no longer
be amortized but instead be subject to periodic impairment testing.  In the first quarter of 2002, the Company
wrote-off goodwill of approximately $30,129,000 of which (i) $15,490,000
represents its share of the goodwill arising from the Company’s investment in
Temperature Controlled Logistics and (ii) $14,639,000 represents
goodwill arising from the Company’s acquisition of the Hotel Pennsylvania.  The write-off was reflected as a cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle in the 2002 consolidated statement
income.

EBITDA

Below are the details of the changes by segment in
EBITDA.

(1)

Represents
operations which were owned for the same period in each year and excludes
non-recurring income and expenses which are included in acquisitions,
dispositions and non-same store income and expenses above.

(2)

EBITDA and the same
store percentage increase (decrease) were $488,419 ($331,886 excluding gains on
sale of real estate of $156,533) and 3.3% (excluding such gains) for the New
York office portfolio and $292,270 and (1.7%) for the CESCR portfolio.  36% of the same store decrease at CESCR
reflects a reduction in third party net leasing fees.

(3)

The Company
reflects its 60% share of Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership’s (the
“Landlord”) rental income it receives from AmeriCold Logistics, its tenant,
which leases the underlying temperature controlled warehouses used in its
business.  The Company’s joint venture
does not recognize rental income unless earned and collection is assured or
cash is received.  The Company did not
recognize $25,087 of rent it was due for the year ended December 31, 2003,
which together with previously deferred rent is $49,436.  The tenant has advised the Landlord that
(i) its revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003 from the warehouses
it leases from the Landlord, is lower than last year by 1.3%, and (ii) its
gross profit before rent at these warehouses for the corresponding period is
higher than last year by $607 (a 0.4% increase).  In addition, in 2003, the tenant and the Landlord had lower
general and administrative expenses and the Landlord received $885 of EBITDA
from its investment in the quarries it acquired in December 2002 which was
reflected in the gross profit of the tenant in the prior year.


Years Ended Decem

ber 31,
2002 and December 31, 2001

Revenues

The Company’s revenues, which consist of property
rentals, tenant expense reimbursements, hotel revenues, trade shows
revenues, amortization of above and below market leases acquired under SFAS No. 141
and 142, and other income, were $1,392,239,000 for the year ended December 31,
2002, compared to $952,161,000 in the year ended December 31, 2001, an increase
of $440,078,000 of which $423,128,000 resulted from the acquisition of the
remaining 66% of CESCR and the resulting consolidation of its operations.  Below are the details of the increase
(decrease) by segment:

(Amounts in thousands)

(1)

Average occupancy
and REVPAR for the Hotel Pennsylvania were 65% and $58 for the year ended
December 31, 2002 compared to 63% and $70 for the prior year.

(2)

Reflects a decrease
of $3,580 resulting from the rescheduling of two trade shows from the fourth
quarter in which they were previously held to the first quarter of 2003.

See
Leasing Activity on page 68, for further details and corresponding changes
in occupancy.


Expenses

The Company’s expenses were $852,370,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2002, compared to $583,002,000 in the year ended December
31, 2001, an increase of $269,368,000 of which $202,852,000 resulted from the
acquisition of the remaining 66% of CESCR and the resulting consolidation of
its operations.  Below are the details
of the increase by segment:

(Amounts in thousands)

(1)

Results
primarily from (i) a $9,725 increase in insurance, security and real
estate taxes, largely reimbursed by tenants, and (ii) $2,639 for an allowance
for straight-line rent receivables.

(2)

Results
primarily from (i) increases in insurance costs which are reimbursed by
tenants, (ii) a $402 payment of Puerto Rico taxes related to the prior year,
(iii) $2,280 in bad debt allowances for accounts receivable and receivables
arising from the straight-lining of rents in 2002 and (iv) lease termination
fees and real estate tax refunds netted against expenses in 2001, which
aggregated $1,500.

(3)

Results
primarily from the rescheduling of two trade shows from the fourth quarter in
which they were previously held to the first quarter of 2003.

(4)

Reflects
(i) increased insurance costs of $1,366, (ii) a charge of $312 from the
settlement of a 1998 utility assessment, and (iii) an increase in real estate
taxes of $1,725.

(5)

Reflects
a charge of $954 in connection with the termination of a contract and the
write-off of related deferred costs.

(6)   Reflects a
charge in 2002 of $6,874 for the write-off of pre-development costs at the
20 Times Square project and a charge in 2001 of $5,223 in connection with
the World Trade Center acquisition not consummated.

Income Applicable to Alexander’s

Income applicable to Alexander’s (interest income,
management, leasing, development and commitment fees, and equity in income) was
$29,653,000 in the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $25,718,000 in the
year ended December 31, 2001, an increase of $3,935,000.  This increase resulted from
(i) $6,915,000 of development and commitment fees in connection with
Alexander’s Lexington Avenue development project, (ii) the Company’s
$3,524,000 share of Alexander’s gain on sale of its Third Avenue property,
partially offset by (iii) the Company’s $6,298,000 share of Alexander’s
gain on the sale of its Fordham Road property in the prior year.


Income from Partially-Owned Entities

Below are the condensed statements of operations of
the Company’s unconsolidated subsidiaries as well as the increase (decrease) in
income from these partially-owned entities for the years ended December 31,
2002 and 2001:

(Amounts in thousands)

(1)

On
January 1, 2002, the Company acquired the remaining 66% of CESCR it did
not previously own.  Accordingly, CESCR
is consolidated as of January 1, 2002.

(2)

On September 20,
2002, the Company acquired the remaining 50% of the Mall and 25% of the Kmart
anchor store that it did not previously own. 
Accordingly, Las Catalinas is consolidated for the period from September 20,
2002 to December 31, 2002.

(3)

On
October 10, 2002, a joint venture, in which the Company has a 50%
interest, acquired the Monmouth Mall.

(4)

Vornado’s
interest in the equity in net income of the Monmouth Mall includes a preferred
return of $748 for the year ended December 31, 2002.

(5)

The year ended
December 31, 2001 includes $1,394 for the Company’s share of a gain on sale of
a property.

(6)

The year ended
December 31, 2002 excludes 570 Lexington Avenue which was sold in May 2001.

(7)

The year ended
December 31, 2001 includes $2,000 for the Company’s share of equity in loss of
its Russian Tea Room (“RTR”) investment. 
In the third quarter of 2001, the Company wrote-off its entire net
investment in RTR based on the operating losses and an assessment of the value
of the real estate.


Interest and Other Investment Income

Interest and other investment income (interest income
on mortgage loans receivable, other interest income and dividend income) was
$31,685,000 for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $54,385,000 in
the year ended December 31, 2001, a decrease of $22,700,000.  This decrease resulted primarily from a
decrease of (i) $12,347,000 due to the non-recognition of income on the
mortgage loan to Primestone, which was foreclosed on April 30, 2002,
(ii) $4,626,000 due to a lower yield on the investment of the proceeds
received from the May 2002 repayment of the Company’s loan to NorthStar
Partnership L.P. (22% yield in 2001) and (iii) $2,269,000 due to the
non-recognition of income on the loan to Vornado Operating.

Interest and Debt Expense

Interest and debt expense was $234,113,000 for the
year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $167,430,000 in the year ended
December 31, 2001, an increase of $66,683,000. 
This increase was comprised of (i) $100,013,000 from the
acquisition of the remaining 66% of CESCR and the resulting consolidation of
its operations, partially offset by (ii) a $32,035,000 savings from a 202
basis point reduction in weighted average interest rates of the Company’s
variable rate debt and (iii) lower average outstanding debt balances.

Net Loss on Disposition of Wholly-owned and
Partially-owned Assets Other Than Depreciable Real Estate

The following table sets forth the details of net loss
on disposition of wholly-owned and partially-owned assets other than
depreciable real estate for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001:

Write-off Investments in Technology Companies

In 2001, the Company recorded a charge of $16,513,000
resulting from the write-off of all of its remaining equity investments in
technology companies due to both the deterioration of the financial condition
of these companies and the lack of acceptance by the market of certain of their
products and services.  The above charge
is net of $1,481,000 of income resulting from the reversal of a deferred rent
liability relating to the termination of an agreement permitting one of the
technology companies access to its properties.

After-tax Net Gain on Sale of Park Laurel Condominium
Units

In 2001, the Park Laurel Joint Venture (69% interest
owned by the Company) completed the sale of 52 condominium units of the total
53 units and received proceeds of $139,548,000.  The Company’s share of the after tax net gain was $15,657,000 and
is after a charge of $3,953,000 (net of tax benefit of $1,826,000) for awards
accrued under the venture’s incentive compensation plan.

Write-off of Net Investment in RTR

In the third quarter of 2001, the Company wrote-off
its entire net investment of $7,374,000 in RTR based on the operating losses
and an assessment of the value of the real estate.


Minority Interest

Minority interest was $140,933,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2002 compared to $112,363,000 for the prior year, an increase
of $28,570,000.  This increase is
primarily due to operating partnership units issued in connection with
acquisitions.

Discontinued Operations

Assets related to discontinued operations consist
primarily of real estate, net of accumulated depreciation.  The following table sets forth the balances
of the assets related to discontinued operations as of December 31, 2002 and
2001:

Liabilities related to discontinued operations
represent the Palisades mortgage payable of $100,000,000 and $0 as of December
31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

The combined results of operations of the assets
related to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001 are as follows:

Gains on Sale of Real Estate

On August 6, 2001, the Company sold its leasehold
interest in 550/600 Mamaroneck Avenue for $22,500,000, which approximated
book value.

In September 1998, Atlantic City condemned
the Company’s property.  In the third
quarter of 1998, the Company recorded a gain of $1,694,000, which reflected the
condemnation award of $3,100,000, net of the carrying value of the property of
$1,406,000.  The Company appealed the
amount and on June 27, 2001, was awarded an additional $3,050,000, which
has been recorded as a gain in the quarter ended June 30, 2001.

On May 17, 2001, the Company sold its 50% interest in
570 Lexington Avenue for $60,000,000, resulting in a net gain after
closing costs of $12,445,000.

Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle

Upon the adoption of SFAS No. 142 - Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets, on January 1, 2002, the Company wrote-off all
of the goodwill associated with the Hotel Pennsylvania and the
Temperature Controlled Logistics businesses aggregating $30,129,000.  This write-off was reflected as a cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle in 2002.

In 2001, the Company recorded a cumulative effect of
change in accounting principle of $4,110,000 as a result of the adoption of
SFAS No. 133.


EBITDA

Below are the details of the changes by segment in
EBITDA.

(1)

Represents
operations which were owned for the same period in each year and excludes
non-recurring income and expenses.

(2)

EBITDA and the same
store percentage increase was $320,874 and 5.0% for the New York City office
portfolio and $289,657 and 4.1% for the CESCR portfolio.

(3)

Primarily due to
lower occupancy and increases in allowances for bad debt expense as a result of
the K-Mart and other bankruptcies and the expiration of the Stop & Shop
guarantees of several former Bradlees locations.  Average occupancy for the year ended December 31, 2002 was
88.3% (84.0% excluding leases which have not commenced as described in the
following sentences) as compared to 92% at December 31, 2001.  The 88.3% occupancy rate includes leases for
490,000 square feet at five locations which have not commenced as of
December 31, 2002.

(4)

Primarily due to
the Company’s share of losses from the Starwood Ceruzzi venture in 2002 of
$1,416 (before depreciation) from properties placed in service, as compared to
a gain of $1,394 from the sale of one of the venture’s assets in 2001.  EBITDA aggregating $2,600 from the
acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2002 of a 50% interest in the
Monmouth Mall and the remaining 50% interest in the Las Catalinas
Mall the Company did not previously own, was offset by lease termination fees
and other refunds in the fourth quarter of 2001.

(5)

The net of a $1,685
or 1.5% same store increase in the core portfolio and a $3,300 or a 66% decline
at the LA Mart as a result of rent reductions and increased marketing
expenditures.

(6)

The Company
reflects its 60% share of Vornado Crescent Portland Partnership’s (“the
Landlord”) rental income it receives from AmeriCold Logistics, its tenant,
which leases the underlying temperature controlled warehouses used in its
business.  The Company’s joint venture
does not recognize rental income unless earned and collection is assured or
cash is received.  The Company did not
recognize its $19,349 share of the rent the joint venture was due for the year
ended December 31, 2002.  The tenant has
advised the Landlord that (i) its revenue for the year ended
December 31, 2002 from the warehouses it leases from the Landlord, is
lower than last year by .1%, and (ii) its gross profit before rent at
these warehouses for the corresponding period decreased by $614 (a .001%
decrease).  The decrease in revenue is primarily
attributable to a reduction in customer inventory turns, a rate reduction with
a significant customer and temporary plant shut-downs.  The decrease in gross profit is primarily
attributable to higher insurance and workers’ compensation.  In addition, the tenant’s cash requirements
for capital expenditures, debt service and a non-recurring pension funding were
$8,293 higher in the current year than in the prior year, which impacted the
ability of the tenant to pay rent.

(7)

Reflects net
non-recurring items included in EBITDA (see page 75 footnote 3 for details)


Supplemental Information

Three Months

Ended December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002

In comparing the financial results of the Company’s segments on a
quarterly basis, the following should be noted:

•

The third quarter of the Office and Merchandise Mart
segments have historically been impacted by higher net utility costs than in
each other quarter of the year;

•

The fourth quarter of the Retail segment have
historically been higher than each of the first three quarters due to the
recognition of percentage rental income in that quarter; and

•

The
second and fourth quarter of the Merchandise Mart segment have historically
been higher than the first and third quarters due to major trade shows
occurring in those quarters.

Below is a summary of Net Income and EBITDA(1) by segment for the three
months ended December 31, 2003 and 2002.

Included in EBITDA are gains on sale of real estate of
$158,378, of which and $156,433 and $1,945 relate to the Office and Retail
segments, respectively.

See notes on page 94.


See notes on following page.


Notes to preceding tabular
information:

(1)

EBITDA should not
be considered a substitute for net income. 
EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by
other companies.

(2)

Interest and debt
expense and depreciation and amortization included in the reconciliation of net
income to EBITDA reflects amounts which are netted in income from
partially-owned entities.

(3)

Other EBITDA is
comprised of:


Below are the details

of the changes
by segment in EBITDA for the three months ended December 31, 2003 compared to
the three months ended December 31, 2002.

(1)

Represents
operations, which were owned for the same period in each year.

(2)

EBITDA and same
store percentage increase (decrease) was $236,952 ($80,419 excluding gains on
sale of real estate of $156,533) and 7.6% (excluding such gains) for the New
York City office portfolio and $73,466 and (2.1%) for the CESCR portfolio.

Below are the d

etails
of the changes by segment in EBITDA for the three months ended
December 31, 2003 compared to the three months ended September 30,
2003:

(1)

Represents operations, which were owned for the same
period in each year.

(2)

EBITDA and same store percentage increase was $
236,952 ($80,419 excluding gains on sale of real estate of $156,533) and 2.8%
(excluding such gains) for the New York City office portfolio and $73,466
and (.2%) for the CESCR portfolio.

(3)

Reflects an increase in the tenant’s gross profits,
partially due to seasonality of tenant’s operations and an increase in the
tenant’s cash available to pay rent in the three months ended September 30,
2003.

Below is a reconciliation
of net income and EBITDA for the three months ended September 30, 2003.


Related Parties

Loan and Compensation Agreements

At December 31, 2003, the loan due from Mr. Roth, in
accordance with his employment arrangement, was $13,123,000 ($4,704,500 of
which is shown as a reduction in shareholders’ equity).  The loan bears interest at 4.49% per annum
(based on the applicable Federal rate) and matures in January 2006.  The Company also provided Mr. Roth with
the right to draw up to $15,000,000 of additional loans on a revolving basis.  Each additional loan will bear interest,
payable quarterly, at the applicable Federal rate on the date the loan is made
and will mature on the sixth anniversary of the loan.  On May 29, 2002, Mr. Roth replaced common shares
of the Company securing the Company’s outstanding loan to Mr. Roth with
options to purchase common shares of the Company with a value of not less
than two times the loan amount.  In
2002, as a result of the decline in the value of the options, Mr. Roth
supplemented the collateral with cash and marketable securities.

At December 31, 2003, loans due from Mr. Fascitelli,
in accordance with his employment agreement, aggregated $8,600,000.  The loans mature in December 2006 and
bear interest, payable quarterly at a weighted average interest rate of 3.97% (based
on the applicable Federal rate).

Pursuant to Mr. Fascitelli’s 1996 employment
agreement, Mr. Fascitelli became entitled to a deferred payment consisting of
$5 million in cash and a convertible obligation payable November 30, 2001, at
the Company’s option, in either 919,540 common shares or the cash equivalent of
their appreciated value, so long as such appreciated value is not less than $20
million.  The Company delivered 919,540
shares to a rabbi trust upon execution of the 1996 employment agreement.  The Company accounted for the stock compensation
as a variable arrangement in accordance with Plan B of EITF No. 97-14
“Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where Amounts Earned Are
Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested” as the agreement permitted settlement in
either cash or common shares.  Following
the guidance in EITF 97-14, the Company recorded changes in the fair
value of its compensation obligation with a corresponding increase in the
liability “Officer’s Deferred Compensation.” 
Effective as of June 7, 2001, the payment date was deferred until
November 30, 2004.  Effective as of
December 14, 2001, the payment to Mr. Fascitelli was converted into an
obligation to deliver a fixed number of shares (919,540 shares), establishing a
measurement date for the Company’s stock compensation obligation, accordingly
the Company ceased accounting for the Rabbi Trust under Plan B of the EITF
and began Plan A accounting.  Under
Plan A, the accumulated liability representing the value of the shares on
December 14, 2001, was reclassified as a component of Shareholders’ Equity
as “Deferred compensation shares earned but not yet delivered.”  In addition, effective December 14,
2001 future changes in the value of the shares are no longer recognized as
additional compensation expense.  The
fair value of this obligation was $50,345,000 at December 31, 2003.  The Company has reflected this liability as
Deferred Compensation Shares Not Yet Delivered in the Shareholders’ Equity
section of the balance sheet.  For the
year ended December 31, 2001, the Company recognized approximately
$4,744,000 of compensation expense of which $2,612,000 represented the
appreciation in value of the shares and $2,132,000 represented dividends paid
on the shares.

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company extended its
employment agreement with Mr. Fascitelli for a five-year period through
December 31, 2006.  Pursuant to the
extended employment agreement, Mr. Fascitelli is entitled to receive a deferred
payment on December 31, 2006 of 626,566 Vornado common shares which are valued
for compensation purposes at $27,500,000 (the value of the shares on March 8,
2002, the date the extended employment agreement was executed).  The shares are held in a rabbi trust for the
benefit of Mr. Fascitelli and vested 100% on December 31, 2002.  The extended employment agreement does not
permit diversification, allows settlement of the deferred compensation
obligation by delivery of these shares only, and permits the deferred delivery
of these shares.  The value of these
shares was amortized ratably over the one-year vesting period as compensation
expense.

Pursuant to the Company’s annual compensation review
in February 2002 with Joseph Macnow, the Company’s Chief Financial
Officer, the Compensation Committee approved a $2,000,000 loan to
Mr. Macnow, bearing interest at the applicable federal rate of 4.65% per
annum and due January 1, 2006.  The
loan, which was funded on July 23, 2002, was made in conjunction with
Mr. Macnow’s June 2002 exercise of options to purchase
225,000 shares of the Company’s common stock.  The loan is collateralized by assets with a value of not less
than two times the loan amount.  In
2002, as a result of the decline in the value of the options, Mr. Macnow
supplemented the collateral with cash and marketable securities.

One other executive officer of the Company has a loan
outstanding pursuant to an employment agreement totaling  $500,000 at December 31, 2003.  The loan matures in April 2005 and bears
interest at the applicable Federal rate provided (4.5% at December 31, 2003).


Transactions with
Affiliates and Officers and Trustees of the Company

Alexander’s

The Company owns 33.1% of Alexander’s.  Mr. Roth and Mr. Fascitelli are
Officers and Directors of Alexander’s, the Company provides various services to
Alexander’s in accordance with management, development and leasing agreements
and the Company has made loans to Alexander’s aggregating $124,000,000 at
December 31, 2003.  These
agreements and the loans are described in Note 5. Investments in
Partially-Owned Entities to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in
this annual report on form 10-K.

In 2002, the Company constructed a $16.3 million
community facility and low-income residential housing development (the “30th Street
Venture”), in order to receive 163,728 square feet of transferable
development rights, generally referred to as “air rights”.  The Company donated the building to a
charitable organization.  The Company
sold 106,796 square feet of these air rights to third parties at an
average price of $120 per square foot. 
An additional 28,821 square feet of air rights was sold to
Alexander’s at a price of $120 per square foot for use at
Alexander’s 59th Street development project (the “59th Street
Project”).  In each case, the Company
received cash in exchange for air rights. 
The Company identified third party buyers for the remaining
28,111 square feet of air rights related to the 30th Street
Venture.  These third party buyers
wanted to use the air rights for the development of two projects located in the
general area of 86th Street which was not within the required geographical
radius of the construction site nor in the same Community Board as the
low-income housing and community facility project.  The 30th Street Venture asked Alexander’s to sell
28,111 square feet of the air rights it already owned to the third party
buyers (who could use them) and the 30th Street Venture would replace them
with 28,111 square feet of air rights. 
In October 2002, the Company sold 28,111 square feet of air
rights to Alexander’s for an aggregate sales price of $3,058,000 (an average of
$109 per square foot).  
Alexander’s then sold an equal amount of air rights to the third party
buyers for an aggregate sales price of $3,339,000 (an average of $119 per
square foot).

Interstate Properties

The Company manages and leases the real estate assets
of Interstate Properties pursuant to a management agreement for which the
Company receives an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent and
certain other commissions. The management agreement has a term of one year and
is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on sixty
days’ notice at the end of the term. Although the management agreement was not negotiated
at arms length, the Company believes based upon comparable fees charged by
other real estate companies that its terms are fair to the Company.  The Company earned $703,000, $747,000 and
$1,133,000 of management fees under the management agreement for the years
ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. 
In addition, during fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, as a result of a
previously existing leasing arrangement with Alexander’s, Alexander’s paid to
Interstate $587,000, $703,000 and $522,000, respectively, for the leasing and
other services actually rendered by the Company.  Upon receipt of these payments, Interstate promptly paid them
over to the Company without retaining any interest therein.  This arrangement was terminated in 2003 and
all payments by Alexander’s for these leasing and other services are made
directly to the Company.

Building Maintenance
Service Company (“BMS”)

On January 1, 2003, the Company acquired BMS, a
company which provides cleaning and related services principally to the Company’s
Manhattan office properties for $13,000,000 in cash from the estate of
Bernard Mendik and certain other individuals including David Greenbaum,
one of the Company’s executive officers. 
The Company paid BMS $53,024,000 and $51,280,000 for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001 for services rendered at the Company’s
Manhattan office properties.  Although
the terms and conditions of the contracts pursuant to which these services were
provided were not negotiated at arms length, the Company believes based upon
comparable amounts charged to other real estate companies that the terms and
conditions of the contracts were fair to the Company.


Vornado
Operating Company and AmeriCold Logistics

In October 1998, Vornado Operating was spun off from
the Company in order to own assets that the Company could not itself own and
conduct activities that the Company could not itself conduct.  The Company granted Vornado Operating a
$75,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility which expires on December 31,
2004.  Borrowings under the revolving
credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 3%.  The Company receives a commitment fee equal to 1% per annum on
the average daily unused portion of the facility.  No amortization is required to be paid under the revolving credit
facility during its term.

The revolving credit facility prohibits Vornado
Operating from incurring indebtedness to third parties (other than certain
purchase money debt and certain other exceptions) and prohibits Vornado
Operating from paying dividends.  As of
December 31, 2003, $21,989,000 was outstanding under the revolving credit
facility.

Vornado Operating has
disclosed that there is substantial doubt as to its ability to continue as a
going concern and its ability to discharge its liabilities in the normal course
of business.  Vornado Operating has
incurred losses since its inception and in the aggregate its investments do
not, and for the foreseeable future are not expected to, generate sufficient
cash flow to pay all of its debts and expenses.  Vornado Operating estimates that it has adequate borrowing
capacity under its credit facility with the Company to meet its cash needs
until December 31, 2004.  However, the
principal, interest and fees outstanding under the line of credit come due on
such date.  Further, Vornado Operating
states that its only investee, AmeriCold Logistics (“Tenant”), anticipates that
its Landlord, a partnership 60% owned by the Company and 40% owned by Crescent
Real Estate Equities, will need to restructure the leases between the Landlord
and the Tenant to provide additional cash flow to the Tenant (the Landlord has
previously restructured the leases to provide additional cash flow to the
Tenant).  Management anticipates a
further lease restructuring in 2004, although it is under no obligation to do
so and there can be no assurance that it will do so.  Vornado Operating is expected to have a source to repay the debt
under this facility from the lease restructuring or other options, although not
by its original due date.  Since January
1, 2002, the Company has not recognized interest income on the debt under this
facility.

Other

On December 31, 2002, the Company and Crescent Real
Estate Equities formed a joint venture to acquire the Carthage, Missouri and
Kansas City, Kansas quarries from AmeriCold Logistics, the Company’s tenant at
the cold storage warehouses (Temperature Controlled Logistics), for $20,000,000
in cash (appraised value).  The Company
contributed cash of $8,800,000 to the joint venture representing its 44%
interest.  AmeriCold Logistics used the
proceeds from the sale to repay a portion of a loan to Vornado Operating.  Vornado Operating then repaid $9,500,000 of
the amount outstanding under the Company’s revolving credit facility.

The Company owns preferred securities in Capital
Trust, Inc. (“Capital Trust”) with a carrying amount of $29,259,000 at
December 31, 2003.   Mr. Roth,
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado Realty Trust, is
a member of the Board of Directors of Capital Trust nominated by the
Company.

During 2002, the Company paid approximately $147,000
for legal services to a firm in which one of the Company’s trustees is a
member.

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed the
acquisition of 2101 L Street, a 370,000 square foot office building located in
Washington D.C.  The consideration for
the acquisition consisted of approximately 1.1 million newly issued Operating
Partnership units (valued at approximately $49,517,000) and the assumption of
existing mortgage debt and transaction costs totaling approximately
$32,000,000.  Robert H. Smith and
Robert P. Kogod, trustees of Vornado, together with family members owned
approximately 24 percent of the limited partnership that sold the building and
Mr. Smith was a general partner.  On
August 5, 2003, the Company repaid the mortgage of $29,056,000.

On October 7, 2003, the Company acquired a 2.5%
interest in the planned redevelopment of Waterfront, located at 401 M Street, a
mixed-use project in Washington D.C. for $2,171,000, of which the Company paid
$1,545,000 in cash and issued 12,500 Vornado Realty L.P. partnership units
valued at $626,000.  The partnership
units were issued to Mitchell N. Schear, one of the partners in the
Waterfront interest, and the President of the Company’s CESCR division.

In connection with the Park Laurel condominium
project, in 2001 the joint venture accrued and paid $5,779,000 of awards under
the venture’s incentive compensation plan.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company
anticipates that cash from continuing operations over the next twelve months
will be adequate to fund its business operations, dividends to shareholders and
distributions to unitholders of the Operating Partnership and recurring capital
expenditures, and together with existing cash balances will be greater than its
anticipated cash requirements including development and redevelopment
expenditures and debt amortization. 
Capital requirements for significant acquisitions may require funding
from borrowings or equity offerings.

Certain Future Cash Requirements

For 2004 the Company has budgeted approximately $194.2
million for capital expenditures excluding acquisitions as follows:

(1)   Primarily Hotel Pennsylvania.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, actual
capital expenditures and leasing commissions were $131,972,000, as compared to
a budget of $168,000,000.

In addition to the capital expenditures reflected
above, the Company is currently engaged in certain development and
redevelopment projects for which it has budgeted approximately $383.5
million.  Of this amount $169.0 million
is estimated to be expended in 2004.  The
$383.5 million does not include amounts for pre-development projects, as no budgets
for them have been finalized.  There can
be no assurance that any of the above projects will be ultimately completed,
completed on time or completed for the budgeted amount.

The Company is also committed to fund up to
$32,420,000 in connection with its initial investment in two partially-owned
entities.

No cash requirements have been budgeted for the
capital expenditures of Alexander’s, Newkirk MLP, or any other entity that is
partially owned by the Company.  These
investees are expected to fund their own cash requirements.


Financing Activities and
Contractual Obligations

Below is a schedule of the Company’s contractual
obligations and commitments at December 31, 2003.

As of March 1, 2004, the Company repaid $227,586,000
of the debt coming due during 2004.  The
Company has $600,000,000 available under its revolving credit facility which
matures in July 2006 and a number of properties which are unencumbered.

The Company’s credit facility contains customary
conditions precedent to borrowing such as the bring down of customary
representations and warranties as well as compliance with financial covenants
such as minimum interest coverage and maximum debt to market
capitalization.  The facility provides for
higher interest rates in the event of a decline in the Company’s ratings below
Baa3/BBB.  This facility also contains
customary events of default that could give rise to acceleration and include
such items as failure to pay interest or principal and breaches of financial
covenants such as maintenance of minimum capitalization and minimum interest
coverage.

The Company carries comprehensive liability and all
risk property insurance ((i) fire, (ii) flood, (iii) extended coverage, (iv)
“acts of terrorism” as defined in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002
which expires in 2004 with a possible extension through 2005 and (v) rental
loss insurance) with respect to its assets. 
Below is a summary of the all risk property insurance and terrorism risk
insurance for each of the Company’s business segments:

(1) Limited as to terrorism insurance by the sub-limit
shown in the adjacent column.

In addition to the coverage above, the Company carries
lesser amounts of coverage for terrorist acts not covered by the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Act of 2002.

The Company’s debt instruments, consisting of mortgage
loans secured by its properties (which are generally non-recourse to the
Company), its senior unsecured notes due 2007 and 2010 and its revolving credit
agreement, contain customary covenants requiring the Company to maintain
insurance. Although the Company believes that it has adequate insurance
coverage under these agreements, the Company may not be able to obtain an equivalent
amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future.  Further if lenders insist on greater coverage than the Company is
able to obtain, it could adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance
and/or refinance its properties and expand its portfolio.

In conjunction with the closing of Alexander’s
Lexington Avenue construction loan on July 3, 2002, the Company agreed to
guarantee to the construction lender, the lien free, timely completion of the
construction of the project and funding of all project costs in excess of a
stated budget, as defined in the loan agreement, if not funded by Alexander’s.

The Company has an effective shelf registration under
which the Company can offer an aggregate of approximately $822,990,000 of
equity securities and Vornado Realty L.P. can offer an aggregate of
$1,800,262,000 of debt securities.


Cash Flows for the
Year Ended December

31, 2003

Cash and cash equivalents were $320,542,000 at
December 31, 2003, as compared to $208,200,000 at December 31, 2002,
an increase of $112,342,000.

Cash flow provided by operating activities of
$528,951,000 was primarily comprised of (i) income of $460,703,000,
(ii) adjustments for non-cash items of $99,985,000, partially offset by
(iii) the net change in operating assets and liabilities of
$31,737,000.  The adjustments for
non-cash items were comprised of (i) depreciation and amortization of
$219,911,000 (ii) minority interest of $178,675,000, partially offset by
(iii) gains on sale of real estate of $161,789,000, (iv) gains on dispositions
of wholly-owned and partially-owned assets other than real estate of
$2,343,000, (v) the effect of straight-lining of rental income of $41,947,000,
(vi) equity in net income of partially-owned entities and income
applicable to Alexander’s of $83,475,000 and (vii) amortization of below
market leases, net of $9,047,000.

Net cash used in investing activities of $130,292,000
was primarily comprised of (i) capital expenditures of $120,593,000, (ii) development
and redevelopment expenditures of $123,436,000, (iii) investment in notes
and mortgages receivable of $230,375,000, (iv) investments in
partially-owned entities of $15,331,000, (v) acquisitions of real estate of
$216,361,000, (vi) cash restricted, primarily mortgage escrows of
$101,292,000, (vii) purchases of marketable securities of $17,356,000 partially
offset by, (viii) proceeds from the sale of real estate and other of
$299,852,000 (ix) distributions from partially-owned entities of $154,643,000,
(x) repayments on notes receivable of $29,421,000 and (xi) proceeds
from the sale of marketable securities of $7,952,000.

Net cash used in financing activities of $286,317,000
was primarily comprised of (i) dividends paid on common shares of $327,877,000,
(ii) dividends paid on preferred shares of $20,815,000,
(iii) distributions to minority partners of $158,066,000, (iv) repayments
of borrowings of $752,422,000, (v) redemption of perpetual preferred
shares and units of $103,243,000, partially offset by proceeds from (vi)
borrowings of $812,487,000, of which $198,500,000 was from the issuance of the
Company’s senior unsecured notes due 2010, and (vii) the exercise of
employee share options of $145,152,000.

Below are the details of capital expenditures, leasing
commissions and development and redevelopment expenditures and a reconciliation
of total expenditures on an accrual basis to the cash expended in the year
ended December 31, 2003.  See page 67
for per square foot data.


Capital expenditures are categorized as follows:

Recurring — capital improvements expended to maintain
a property’s competitive position within the market and tenant improvements and
leasing commissions for costs to re-lease expiring leases or renew or extend
existing leases.

Non-recurring — capital improvements completed in the
year of acquisition and the following two years which were planned at the time
of acquisition and tenant improvements and leasing commissions for space
which was vacant at the time of acquisition of a property.

Development and redevelopment expenditures include all
hard and soft costs associated with the development or redevelopment of a
property, including tenant improvements, leasing commissions and capitalized
interest and operating costs until the property is substantially complete and
ready for its intended use.

2003 Acquisitions

Acquisitions of individual properties are recorded as
acquisitions of real estate assets. 
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting.  The purchase price for
property acquisitions and businesses acquired is allocated to acquired assets
and assumed liabilities using their relative fair values as of the acquisition
date based on valuations and other studies. 
Initial valuations are subject to change until such information is
finalized no later than 12 months from the acquisition date.

Building
Maintenance Service Company (“BMS”)

On January 1, 2003, the Company acquired for
$13,000,000 in cash BMS, which provides cleaning, security and engineering
services principally to the Company’s Manhattan office properties.  This company was previously owned by the
estate of Bernard Mendik and certain other individuals including David R.
Greenbaum, one of the Company’s executive officers.

Kaempfer
Company (“Kaempfer”)

On April 9, 2003, the Company acquired Kaempfer which
owns partial interests in six Class “A” office properties in
Washington D.C. containing 1.8 million square feet, manages and leases
these properties and four others for which it receives customary fees and has
options to acquire certain other real estate interests, including the
Waterfront project discussed below. 
Kaempfer’s equity interest in the properties approximates 5.0%.  The aggregate purchase price for the equity
interests and the management and leasing business was $32,200,000 (consisting
of $28,600,000 in cash and approximately 99,300 Operating Partnership
units valued at $3,600,000) and may be increased by up to $9,000,000 based on
the performance of the management company.

On October 7, 2003, the Company acquired a 2.5%
interest in the planned redevelopment of Waterfront, located at 401 M Street, a
mixed-use project in Washington D.C. (the “Waterfront interest”) for
$2,171,000, of which the Company paid $1,545,000 in cash and issued 12,500
Operating Partnership units valued at $626,000.  The partnership units were issued to Mitchell N. Schear, one
of the partners in the Waterfront interest, who became the President of the
Company’s CESCR division.


20 Broad
Street

On May 2, 2003, the Company acquired the
remaining 40% of a 78-year leasehold interest in 20 Broad Street it did
not already own.  The purchase price was
approximately $30,000,000 in cash.  20
Broad Street contains 466,000 square feet of office space, of which 348,000
square feet is leased to the New York Stock Exchange.

2101 L
Street

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed the
acquisition of 2101 L Street, a 370,000 square foot office building located in
Washington D.C.  The consideration for
the acquisition consisted of approximately 1.1 million newly issued Operating
Partnership units (valued at approximately $49,517,000) and the assumption of
existing mortgage debt and transaction costs totaling approximately
$32,000,000.  Robert H. Smith and
Robert P. Kogod, trustees of Vornado, together with family members owned
approximately 24 percent of the limited partnership that sold the building and
Mr. Smith was a general partner.  On
August 5, 2003, the Company repaid the mortgage of $29,056,000.

General
Motors Building Mezzanine Loans

On October 20, 2003 the Company
made a $200,000,000 mezzanine loan secured by partnership interests in the
General Motors Building. The General Motors Building was acquired by Macklowe
Properties in September 2003 for approximately $1,400,000,000. Vornado’s loan
is subordinate to $900,000,000 of other debt. The loan is based on a rate of
LIBOR plus 8.685% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%) and currently yields 10.185%.  Further, on October 30, 2003, the
Company made an additional $25,000,000 loan, as part of a $50,000,000 loan, the
balance of which was funded by an affiliate of Soros Fund Management LLC. This
loan, which is junior to the $1,100,000,000 of loans noted above, is based on a
rate of LIBOR plus 12.81% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%) and currently yields
14.31%. These loans mature in October 2005, with three one-year extensions.

Bergen
Mall

On December 12, 2003, the Company acquired the Bergen
Mall for approximately $145,000,000. This purchase was funded as part of a
Section 1031 tax-free “like-kind” exchange with a portion of the proceeds from
the sale of the Company’s Two Park Avenue property.  The Bergen Mall is a 903,000 square foot shopping center located
on Route 4 East in Paramus, New Jersey. The center is anchored by Macy’s, Value
City, Marshalls and Off Saks Fifth Avenue. 
The Company intends to expand, re-tenant and redevelop the center in
order to reposition the asset.  On
January 27, 2004, the Company entered into an agreement to modify the Value
City lease to give the Company a one-year option to terminate the lease no
earlier than one year after notification and upon payment of $12,000,000 to the
tenant.  The present value of this
option is reflected in the acquisition price and is included in other
liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

2003 Dispositions

On January 9, 2003, the Company sold its
Baltimore, Maryland shopping center for $4,752,000, which resulted in a net
gain after closing costs of $2,644,000.

On June 13, 2003, the Company received its
$5,000,000 share of a settlement with affiliates of Primestone Investment
Partners of the amounts due under the guarantees of the Primestone loans.  In connection therewith, the Company
recognized a $1,388,000 loss on settlement of the guarantees.

On October 10, 2003, the Company sold
Two Park Avenue, a 965,000 square foot office building, for
$292,000,000 to SEB Immobilien-Investment GMBH, a German capital investment
company, which resulted in a net gain on the sale after closing costs of
$156,433,000.

On November 3, 2003, the Company sold its Hagerstown,
Maryland shopping center for $3,100,000 which resulted in a net gain on sale
after closing costs of $1,945,000.

On February 2, 2004, the Palisades Venture in which
the Company owns a 75% interest entered into an agreement to sell its only
asset, a 538 unit high-rise residential apartment tower in Fort Lee, New
Jersey, for $222,500,000.  On February
27, 2004, to permit a potential “like kind exchange,” the Company acquired the
remaining 25% interest it did not previously own for its partner’s share of the
net sales price (approximately $17,000,000). 
The Company’s gain on sale after closing costs will be approximately
$70,000,000.  The sale, which is subject
to customary closing conditions, is expected to be completed by the third
quarter of 2004.


2003 Financings

On July 3, 2003, the Company entered into a new
$600,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility which has replaced its
$1,000,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility which was to mature in July
2003.  The new facility has a three-year
term, a one-year extension option and bears interest at LIBOR plus .65%.  The Company also has the ability under the
new facility to seek up to $800 million of commitments during the
facility’s term.  The new facility
contains financial covenants similar to the prior facility.

On November 11, 2003, the Company redeemed of all of
its 8.5% Series D-1 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units issued in
1998 at a redemption price equal to the par value of $25.00 per unit or an
aggregate of $87,500,000 plus accrued distributions of $849,000.  This amount exceeded the carrying amount by
$2,100,000, representing the original of issuance costs.  Upon the redemption these issuance costs
were recorded as a reduction to earnings in arriving at net income applicable
to common shares in accordance with the July 2003 EITF clarification of Topic
D-42.

On November 17, 2003, the Company sold $40,000,000 of
7.00% Series D-10 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares to an institutional
investor in a registered offering. Immediately prior to that sale, Vornado
Realty L.P. sold $80,000,000 of 7.00% Series D-10 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Units to an institutional investor in a separate private offering. Both the
perpetual Preferred Units and perpetual Preferred Shares may be called without
penalty at the option of the company commencing in November 2008.

On November 25, 2003, the Company completed an
offering of $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior
unsecured notes due December 1, 2010. 
Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually on June 1st and December
1st, commencing in 2004.  The notes were
priced at 99.869% of their face amount to yield 4.772%. The notes contain the
same financial covenants that are in the Company’s notes issued in June 2002,
except the maximum ratio of secured debt to total assets is now 50% (previously
55%). The net proceeds of approximately $198,500,000 were used primarily to
repay existing mortgage debt.

On January 6, 2004, the Company redeemed all of its
8.375% Series D-2 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units issued in
1999 at a redemption price equal to $50.00 per unit or an aggregate of
$27,500,000 plus accrued distributions of $19,170.


Cash
Flows f

or the Year Ended December 31, 2002

Cash and cash equivalents were $208,200,000 at December 31, 2002,
as compared to $265,584,000 at December 31, 2001, a decrease of
$57,384,000.

Cash flow provided by operating activities of $499,825,000 was primarily
comprised of (i) income of $232,903,000, (ii) adjustments for non-cash
items of $303,869,000, partially offset by (iii) the net change in
operating assets and liabilities of $36,947,000.  The adjustments for non-cash items were comprised of (i) a
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $30,129,000, (ii)
amortization of Officer’s deferred compensation expense of $27,500,000,
(iii) depreciation and amortization of $205,826,000, (iv) minority
interest of $140,933,000, (v) the write-off of $6,874,000 of 20 Times
Square pre-development costs, (vi) impairment losses on Primestone of
$35,757,000, partially offset by (vii) the effect of straight-lining of rental
income of $38,119,000, (viii) equity in net income of partially-owned
entities and income applicable to Alexander’s of $74,111,000 and
(ix) amortization of below market leases, net of $12,634,000.

Net cash used in investing activities of $24,117,000 was comprised of
(i) recurring capital expenditures of $52,728,000, (ii) non-recurring
capital expenditures of $42,227,000, (iii) development and redevelopment
expenditures of $91,199,000, (iv) investment in notes and mortgages
receivable of $56,935,000, (v) investments in partially-owned entities of
$73,242,000, (vi) acquisitions of real estate of $23,665,000, (vii) cash
restricted, primarily mortgage escrows of $21,471,000 partially offset by
proceeds from (viii) distributions from partially-owned entities of
$126,077,000, (ix) repayments on notes receivable of $124,500,000 and
(x) proceeds from the sale of marketable securities of $87,896,000.

Net cash used in financing activities of $533,092,000 was primarily
comprised of (i) dividends paid on common shares of $314,419,000,
(ii) dividends paid on preferred shares of $23,167,000, (iii) distributions
to minority partners of $146,358,000, (iv) repayments of borrowings of
$731,238,000, (v) redemption of perpetual preferred units of $25,000,000,
partially offset by proceeds from (vi) the issuance of common shares of
$56,453,000, (vii) proceeds from borrowings of $628,335,000, of which
$499,280,000 was from the issuance of the Company’s senior unsecured notes on
June 24, 2002, and (viii) the exercise of employee share options of
$26,272,000.

Below are the details of capital expenditures, leasing commissions and
development and redevelopment expenditures for the year ended December 31,
2002.

(1)

Includes reimbursements from tenants for
expenditures incurred in the prior year.


Cash
Flows for the Ye

ar
Ended December 31, 2001

Cash flow provided by operating activities of $387,685,000 was
primarily comprised of (i) income of $263,738,000, (ii) adjustments for
non-cash items of $104,393,000, and (iii) the net change in operating
assets and liabilities of $19,554,000. 
The adjustments for non-cash items were primarily comprised of
(i) a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $4,110,000,
(ii) the write-off of the Company’s remaining equity investments in
technology companies of $16,513,000, (iii) the write-off of its entire net
investment of $7,374,000 in the Russian Tea Room, (iv) depreciation
and amortization of $123,682,000, (v) minority interest of $112,363,000,
partially offset by (vi) the effect of straight-lining of rental income of
$27,230,000, and (vii) equity in net income of partially-owned entities
and income applicable to Alexander’s of $106,330,000.

Net cash used in investing activities of $79,722,000 was primarily
comprised of (i) recurring capital expenditures of $41,093,000,
(ii) non-recurring capital expenditures of $25,997,000,
(iii) development and redevelopment expenditures of $145,817,000,
(iv) investment in notes and mortgages receivable of $83,879,000,
(v) investments in partially-owned entities of $109,332,000,
(vi) acquisitions of real estate of $11,574,000, offset by,
(vii) proceeds from the sale of real estate of $162,045,000, and
(viii) distributions from partially-owned entities of $114,218,000.

Net cash used in financing activities of $179,368,000 was primarily
comprised of (i) proceeds from borrowings of $554,115,000,
(ii) proceeds from the issuance of common shares of $377,193,000,
(iii) proceeds from the issuance of preferred units of $52,673,000, offset
by, (iv) repayments of borrowings of $835,257,000, (v) dividends paid
on common shares of $201,813,000, (vi) dividends paid on preferred shares
of $35,547,000, and (vii) distributions to minority partners of
$98,594,000.

Below are the details of capital expenditures, leasing commissions and
development and redevelopment expenditures.


Funds From
Operations Applicable to Common Shares (“FFO”)

FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash
needs which is disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
applicable periods.  FFO should not be
considered as an alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company’s
operating performance or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of
liquidity.  Management considers FFO a
relevant supplemental measure of operating performance because it provides a
basis for comparison among REITs.  FFO
is computed in accordance with NAREIT’s definition, which may not be comparable
to FFO reported by other REITs that do not compute FFO in accordance with
NAREIT’s definition.

Year Ended
December 31, 2003 vs. December 31, 2002

FFO was $518,242,000, or $4.44 per diluted share
for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $439,775,000, or
$3.91 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2002, an increase
of $78,467,000 or $.53 per share.

Income
from the straight-lining of rents included in FFO amounted to $34,023,000, or
$.24 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2003, and
$27,295,000, or $.24 per diluted share for the year ended December 31,
2002.  Income from the amortization of
acquired below market leases net of above market leases included in FFO
amounted to $9,047,000, or $.06 per diluted share for the year ended
December 31, 2003 and $12,634,000, or $.11 per dilute

d share for the year ended December 31,
2002.

Also included in FFO are
certain items that affect comparability as detailed below.  Before these items, the year ended December
31, 2003 FFO is 6.5% higher than the year ended December 31, 2002 on a per
share basis.


Fourth Quarter 2003 vs. Fourth
Quarter 2002

FFO was $130,729,000, or $1.08 per diluted share
for the three months ended December 31, 2003, compared to $93,507,000, or
$.83 per diluted share for the three months ended December 31, 2002, an
increase of $37,222,000 or $.25 per share.

Income from the straight-lining of rents included in FFO,
amounted to $8,204,000, or $.06 per diluted share for the three months
ended December 31, 2003, and $7,794,000, or $.06 per diluted share for the
three months ended December 31, 2002. 
Income from the amortization of acquired below market leases net of
above market leases included in FFO, amounted to $2,133,000, or $.01 per
diluted share for the three months ended December 31, 2003 and $12,662,000, or
$.09 per dilute

d share for the three
months ended December 31, 2002.

Also included in FFO are certain items that affect comparability as
detailed below.  Before these items, the
three months ended December 31, 2003 FFO is 8.7% higher than the year ended
December 31, 2002 on a per share basis.

The
following table reconciles FFO and net income:


Recently Issued Accounting Standards

FASB
Interpretation No. 46-Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (“FIN 46”)

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, as amended in December 2003 by
FIN 46R, which deferred the effective date until the first interim or annual
reporting period ending after March 15, 2004. 
FIN 46R requires the consolidation of an entity by an enterprise known
as a “primary beneficiary,” (i) if that enterprise has a variable interest that
will absorb a majority of the entity’s expected losses, if they occur, receive
a majority of the entity’s expected residual returns, if they occur, or both
and (ii) if the entity is a variable interest entity (“VIE”), as defined.  An entity qualifies as a variable interest
entity if (i) the total equity investment at risk in the entity is not
sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support from other parties or (ii) the equity investors
do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest in the
entity.  The initial determination of
whether an entity is a variable interest entity shall be made as of the date at
which an enterprise becomes involved with the entity and re-evaluated as of the
date of triggering events, as defined. 
The Company has evaluated each partially-owned entity to determine
whether any qualify as a VIE, and if so, whether the Company is the primary
beneficiary, as defined.  The Company
has determined that its investment in Newkirk MLP, in which it owns a 22.6%
equity interest (see Note 5 – Investments in Partially-Owned Entities to the
consolidated financial statements in this annual report Form 10-K), qualifies
as a VIE.  The Company has determined
that it is not considered the primary beneficiary and, accordingly,
consolidation is not required.  The
Company’s maximum exposure to loss as a result of its involvement in Newkirk is
limited to its equity investment of approximately $138,762,000, as of December
31, 2003.  In addition, the Company has
variable interests in certain other entities which are primarily financing
arrangements.  The Company has evaluated
these entities in accordance with FIN 46R and has determined that they are not
VIEs.  Based on the Company’s
evaluations, it does not believe that the adoption of FIN 46R will have a
material effect on its consolidated financial statements.

SFAS
No. 150-Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of
Both Liabilities and Equity

In May 2003, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 150 which establishes standards for classifying and measuring
as liabilities certain financial instruments that embody obligations of the
issuer and have characteristics of both liabilities and equity.  The adoption of SFAS No. 150 on July 1,
2003, required the Company to reclassify all of its Series F-1 Preferred Units
($10 million liquidation value) from minority interest to a liability on its
consolidated balance sheet.  In connection
therewith, the Company also reclassified $225,000 of payments made to the
holders of these units in the three months ended December 31, 2003 as interest
expense.

On November 7, 2003, the FASB deferred, indefinitely, the application
of paragraphs 9 and 10 of SFAS No. 150 as it relates to mandatory redeemable
non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries in order to address a
number of interpretation and implementation issues.  The Company has determined that one of its consolidated, finite-life
joint ventures qualifies as a mandatory redeemable non-controlling
interest.  If the Company were required
to adopt the provisions of paragraphs 9 and 10 on the statement’s effective
date, the Company would have to reclassify as a liability, amounts included in
minority interest of approximately $1.6 million and record the minority
partner’s interest as a liability at its estimated settlement value which would
result in a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of
approximately $15.6 million.  This
liability would be required to be reviewed each quarter and any changes in its
settlement value would be recorded as interest expense.


ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
MARKET RISK

The Company has exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates.  Market interest rates are highly sensitive
to many factors, beyond the control of the Company.  Various financial vehicles exist which would allow management to
mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on the Company’s cash flows
and earnings.

As of December 31, 2003, the Company has an interest rate swap as
described in footnote 1 to the table below. 
In addition, during 2003 the Company purchased two interest rate caps
with notional amounts aggregating $295,000,000, and simultaneously sold two
interest rate caps with the same aggregate notional amount on substantially the
same terms as the caps purchased.  As
the significant terms of these arrangements are the same, the effects of a
revaluation of these instruments are expected to substantially offset one
another.  Management may engage in
additional hedging strategies in the future, depending on management’s analysis
of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies.

The Company’s exposure to a change in interest rates on its
wholly-owned and partially-owned debt (all of which arises out of non-trading
activity) is as follows:

($in thousands, except
per share amounts)

(1)

Includes $525,279 for the Company’s senior unsecured
notes due 2007, as the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements that
effectively converted the interest rate from a fixed rate of 5.625% to a
floating rate of LIBOR plus .7725%, based upon the trailing 3 month LIBOR
rate (1.97% if set on December 31, 2003). 
In accordance with SFAS 133, as amended, accounting for these swaps
requires the Company to fair value the debt at each reporting period.  At December 31, 2003, the fair value
adjustment was $25,780, and is included in the balance of the senior unsecured
notes above.

The fair value of the Company’s debt, based on discounted cash flows at
the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar
credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt, exceeds the aggregate
carrying amount by approximately $94,953,000 at December 31, 2003.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

Shareholders
and Board of Trustees

Vornado
Realty Trust

New
York, New York

We have audited
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Vornado Realty Trust as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated statements of
income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2003. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 8. These financial statements
and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements
and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our
audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion,
such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Vornado Realty Trust at December 31,
2003 and 2002, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, on January 1, 2002, the
Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”  As discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Company applied the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets.”

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey

March 2, 2004


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


See notes to consolidated financial statements.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.

Organization and
Business

Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated real estate investment trust
(“REIT”).  Vornado conducts its business
through Vornado Realty L.P., (“the Operating Partnership”).  Vornado is the sole general partner of, and
owned approximately 82% of the common limited partnership interest in, the
Operating Partnership at February 16, 2004. 
All references to the “Company” and “Vornado” refer to Vornado Realty
Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership.

The Company currently owns directly or indirectly:

Office
Properties

:

(i)  all or portions of 83 office properties
aggregating approximately 27.3 million square feet in the New York City
metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) and in the Washington D.C. and
Northern Virginia area;

Retail
Properties

:

(ii)  60 retail properties in six states and
Puerto Rico aggregating approximately 12.9 million square feet, including 2.7
million square feet built by tenants on land leased from the Company;

Merchandise
Mart Properties

:

(iii)  8.6 million square feet of showroom and
office space, including the 3.4 million square foot Merchandise Mart in
Chicago;

Temperature
Controlled Logistics

:

(iv)  a 60% interest in the Vornado Crescent
Portland Partnership that owns 87 cold storage warehouses nationwide with an
aggregate of approximately 440.7 million cubic feet of refrigerated space
leased to AmeriCold Logistics;

Other Real Estate
Investments

:

(v)  33.1% of the outstanding common stock of
Alexander’s, Inc. (“Alexander’s”);

(vi) the Hotel
Pennsylvania in New York City consisting of a hotel portion containing
1.0 million square feet with 1,700 rooms and a commercial portion
containing .4 million square feet of retail and office space;

(vii) a 22.6% interest in
The Newkirk Master Limited Partnership (“Newkirk MLP”) which owns office, retail
and industrial properties net leased primarily to credit rated tenants, and
various debt interests in such properties;

(viii) eight dry
warehouse/industrial properties in New Jersey containing approximately 2.0
million square feet; and

(ix)  other investments, including interests in
other real estate, marketable securities and loans and notes receivable.


2.

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of
Presentation:

The
accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Vornado
Realty Trust and its majority-owned subsidiary, Vornado Realty L.P.  All significant intercompany amounts have
been eliminated.  The Company accounts
for its unconsolidated partially-owned entities on the equity method of
accounting.  See below for further
details of the Company’s accounting policies regarding partially-owned
entities.

Management has made estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications:

Certain prior year balances have been
reclassified in order to conform to current year presentation.

Real
Estate:

Real estate
is carried at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization.  Betterments, major renewals and certain
costs directly related to the acquisition, improvement and leasing of real
estate are capitalized.  Maintenance and
repairs are charged to operations as incurred. 
For redevelopment of existing operating properties, the net book value
of the existing property under redevelopment plus the cost for the construction
and improvements incurred in connection with the redevelopment are capitalized
to the extent the capitalized costs of the property do not exceed the estimated
fair value of the redeveloped property when complete.  If the cost of the redeveloped property, including the
undepreciated net book value of the property carried forward, exceeds the
estimated fair value of redeveloped property, the excess is charged to
expense.  Depreciation is provided on a
straight-line basis over the assets’ estimated useful lives which range from 7
to 40 years.  Tenant allowances are
amortized on a straight-line basis over the lives of the related leases, which
approximates the useful lives of the assets. 
Additions to real estate include interest expense capitalized during
construction of $5,407,000 and $6,677,000, for the years ended December 31,
2003 and 2002 respectively.

Upon acquisitions of real estate, the Company assesses the fair value
of acquired assets (including land, buildings, tenant improvements, and
beginning in 2002, identified intangibles such as above and below market leases
and acquired in-place leases in accordance with SFAS No. 141 and 142) and
acquired liabilities, and allocates purchase price based on these
assessments.  The Company assesses fair
value based on estimated cash flow projections that utilize appropriate
discount and capitalization rates and available market information.  Estimates of future cash flows are based on
a number of factors including the historical operating results, known trends,
and market/economic conditions that may affect the property.  The Company’s properties are reviewed for
impairment if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying
amount of the assets may not be recoverable.

Partially-Owned Entities:

The
Company considers APB 18 – The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in
Common Stock, SOP 78-9 – Accounting for Investments in Real Estate Ventures,
EITF 96-16 – Investors Accounting for an Investee When the Investor has the
Majority of the Voting Interest but the Minority Partners have Certain Approval
or Veto Rights, to determine the method of accounting for each of its
partially-owned entities.  In
determining whether the Company has a controlling interest in a partially-owned
entity and the requirement to consolidate the accounts of that entity, it
considers factors such as ownership interest, board representation, management
representation, authority to make decisions, and contractual and substantive
participating rights of the partners/members. The Company has concluded that it
does not control a partially-owned entity, despite an ownership interest of 50%
or greater, if the approval of all of the partners/members is contractually
required with respect to major decisions, such as operating and capital
budgets, the sale, exchange or other disposition of real property, the hiring
of a Chief Executive Officer, the commencement, compromise or settlement of any
lawsuit, legal proceeding or arbitration or the placement of new or additional
financing secured by assets of the venture. 
This is the case with respect to the Company’s 60% interest in
Temperature Controlled Logistics, 80% interest in Starwood Ceruzzi Venture, and
50% interests in Monmouth Mall, MartParc Wells, MartParc Orleans, and 825
Seventh Avenue.


Identified Intangible Assets and
Goodwill:

Upon an acquisition of a
business the Company records intangible assets acquired at their estimated fair
value separate and apart from goodwill. 
The Company amortizes identified intangible assets that are determined
to have finite lives which are based on the period over which the assets are
expected to contribute directly or indirectly to the future cash flows of the
business acquired.  Intangible assets
subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be
recoverable.  An impairment loss is
recognized if the carrying amount of an intangible asset is not recoverable and
its carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value.

The excess of the cost of an acquired entity over
the net of the amounts assigned to assets acquired (including identified
intangible assets) and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.  Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for
impairment at a level of reporting referred to as a reporting unit on an annual
basis, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the asset might be impaired.  An
impairment loss for an asset group is allocated to the long-lived assets of the
group on a pro-rata basis using the relative carrying amounts of those assets,
unless the fair value of specific components of the reporting group are
determinable without undue cost and effort.

As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, the carrying amounts of the Company’s
identified intangible assets are $106,281,000 and $50,487,000 and the carrying
amounts of goodwill are $4,345,000 and $0, respectively.  Such amounts are included in other assets on
the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. 
In addition, the Company has $47,266,000 and $48,430,000 of deferred
credits as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, which are included as liabilities on
the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.

Upon adoption of SFAS 142 “

Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets

” on January 1, 2002, the Company tested
the goodwill related to the Hotel Pennsylvania acquisition and the Temperature
Controlled Logistics business for impairment. As the carrying amounts of the
respective goodwill exceeded the fair values, the Company wrote-off all of the
goodwill as an impairment loss totaling $30,129,000 and has reflected the
write-off as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle on the
income statement.

Cash and
Cash Equivalents:

Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments purchased
with original maturities of three months or less. Cash and cash equivalents do
not include cash escrowed under loan agreements and cash restricted in
connection with an officer’s deferred compensation payable.

Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts:

The Company periodically evaluates the
collectibility of amounts due from tenants and maintains an allowance for
doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of tenants
to make required payments under the lease agreements.  The Company also maintains an allowance for receivables arising
from the straight-lining of rents.  This
receivable arises from earnings recognized in excess of amounts currently due
under the lease agreements.  Management
exercises judgment in establishing these allowances and considers payment
history and current credit status in developing these estimates.

Marketable
Securities:

The
Company has classified debt and equity securities which it intends to hold for
an indefinite period of time (including warrants to acquire equity securities)
as securities available for sale; equity securities it intends to buy and sell
on a short term basis as trading securities; and preferred stock investments as
securities held to maturity.  Unrealized
gains and losses on trading securities are included in earnings.  Unrealized gains and losses on securities
available for sale are included as a component of shareholders’ equity and
other comprehensive income.  Realized
gains or losses on the sale of securities are recorded based on specific
identification.  A portion of the
Company’s preferred stock investments are redeemable and accounted for in
accordance with EITF 99-20 “Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on
Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial
Assets.”  Income is recognized by
applying the prospective method of adjusting the yield to maturity based on an
estimate of future cash flows.  If the
value of the investment based on the present value of the future cash flows is
less than the Company’s carrying amount, the investments will be written-down
to fair value through earnings. 
Investments in securities of non-publicly traded companies are reported
at cost, as they are not considered marketable under SFAS No. 115.

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, marketable securities had an aggregate
cost of $75,114,000 and $41,665,000 and an aggregate fair value of $81,491,000
and $42,525,000 (of which $0 represents trading securities; $43,527,000 and
$2,020,000 represents securities available for sale; and $37,964,000 and
$40,505,000 represent securities held to maturity).  Gross unrealized gains and losses were $6,377,000 and $0 at
December 31, 2003 and $860,000 and $0 at December 31, 2002
respectively.  As of December 31, 2003,
there are no marketable securities in an unrealized loss position.


Notes
and Mortgage Loans Receivable:

The Company’s policy is to
record mortgages and notes receivable at the stated principal amount less any
discount or premium.  The Company
accretes or amortizes any discounts or premiums over the life of the related
loan receivable utilizing the effective interest method.  The Company evaluates the collectibility of
both interest and principal of each of its loans, if circumstances warrant, to
determine whether it is impaired. A loan is considered to be impaired when,
based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will
be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual
terms. When a loan is considered to be impaired, the amount of the loss accrual
is calculated by comparing the recorded investment to the value determined by
discounting the expected future cash flows at the loan’s effective interest
rate or, as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan
is collateral dependent.  Interest on
impaired loans is recognized on a cash basis.

Deferred
Charges:

Direct financing costs are deferred and amortized
over the terms of the related agreements as a component of interest expense.
Direct costs related to leasing activities are capitalized and amortized on a
straight-line basis over the lives of the related leases. All other deferred
charges are amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the
effective interest rate method, in accordance with the terms of the agreements
to which they relate.

Fair
Value of Financial Instruments:

All financial instruments of
the Company are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at
amounts which, in management’s estimation, based upon an interpretation of
available market information and valuation methodologies (including discounted
cash flow analyses with regard to fixed rate debt) are considered appropriate.  The fair value of the Company’s debt is
approximately $94,953,000 in excess of the aggregate carrying amount at
December 31, 2003.  Such fair value
estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that would be realized
upon disposition of the Company’s financial instruments.

Derivative Instruments And Hedging
Activities:

Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133,

Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging

Activities

(“SFAS No. 133”), as amended and interpreted,
establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for
hedging activities.  As required by SFAS
No. 133, the Company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair
value.  The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives
depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation.
Derivatives used to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of an
asset, liability, or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, such as
interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivatives used to hedge
the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of
forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges.  The cumulative effect of implementing SFAS
No. 133 on January 1, 2001, was $4,110,000.

For derivatives designated as fair value hedges, changes in the fair
value of the derivative and the hedged item related to the hedged risk are
recognized in earnings. For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, the
effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is initially
reported in other comprehensive income (outside of earnings) and subsequently
reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings, and the
ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is
recognized directly in earnings.  The
Company assesses the effectiveness of each hedging relationship by comparing
the changes in fair value or cash flows of the derivative hedging instrument
with the changes in fair value or cash flows of the designated hedged item or
transaction. For derivatives not designated as hedges, changes in fair value
are recognized in earnings. 
Additionally, the Company does not use derivatives for trading or
speculative purposes and currently does not have any derivatives that are not
designated as hedges.

On June 27, 2002, the Company entered into interest rate swaps that
effectively converted the interest rate on the $500,000,000 senior unsecured notes
due 2007 from a fixed rate of 5.625% to a floating rate of LIBOR plus .7725%,
based upon the trailing 3 month LIBOR rate (1.15% at December 31,
2003).  These swaps were designated and
effective as fair value hedges, with a fair value of $25,780,000 at
December 31, 2003, which is included in Other Assets on the Company’s
consolidated balance sheet.  Accounting
for these swaps also requires the Company to recognize changes in the fair
value of the debt during each reporting period.  At December 31, 2003, the fair value adjustment of $25,780,000,
based on the fair value of the swaps, is included in the balance of the Senior
Unsecured Notes.  Because the hedging
relationship qualifies for the “short-cut” method, no hedge ineffectiveness on
these fair value hedges was recognized during 2003 and 2002.


Revenue
Recognition:

The
Company has the following revenue sources and revenue recognition policies:

Base Rents — income
arising from tenant leases.  These rents
are recognized over the non-cancelable term of the related leases on a
straight-line basis which includes the effects of rent steps and rent
abatements under the leases.

Percentage Rents — income
arising from retail tenant leases which are contingent upon the sales of the
tenant exceeding a defined threshold. 
These rents are recognized in accordance with SAB 104, which states that
this income is to be recognized only after the contingency has been removed (i.e.
sales thresholds have been achieved).

Hotel Revenues — income
arising from the operation of the Hotel Pennsylvania which consists of rooms
revenue, food and beverage revenue, and banquet revenue.  Income is recognized when rooms are
occupied.  Food and beverage and banquet
revenue are recognized when the services have been rendered.

Trade Show Revenues —
income arising from the operation of trade shows, including rentals of
booths.  This revenue is recognized in
accordance with the booth rental contracts when the trade shows have occurred.

Expense Reimbursements —
revenue arising from tenant leases which provide for the recovery of all or a
portion of the operating expenses and real estate taxes of the respective
property.  This revenue is accrued in the
same periods as the expenses are incurred. 
Contingent rents are not recognized until realized.

Income
Taxes:

The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it
to continue to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended. Under those sections, a REIT which distributes at
least 90% of its REIT taxable income as a dividend to its shareholders each
year and which meets certain other conditions will not be taxed on that portion
of its taxable income which is distributed to its shareholders.  The Company will distribute to its
shareholders 100% of its taxable income and therefore, no provision for Federal
income taxes is required. Dividend distributions for the year ended
December 31, 2003, were characterized for Federal income tax purposes as
94.4% ordinary income and 5.6% long-term capital gain income.  Dividend distributions for the year ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001 were characterized as ordinary income.

The Company owns stock in corporations that have elected to be treated
for Federal income tax purposes, as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”).  The value of the combined TRS stock cannot
and does not exceed 20% of the value of the Company’s total assets.  A TRS is taxable on its net income at
regular corporate tax rates.  The total
income tax paid for the 2003 and 2002 tax years was $2,486,000 and $1,430,000.

The following table reconciles net income to estimated taxable income
for the year ended December 31, 2003.

The net basis of the Company’s assets and liabilities for tax purposes
is approximately $2,857,619,000 lower than the amount reported for financial
statement purposes.  At
December 31, 2003, the Company had a capital loss carryover of zero.


Income
Per Share:

Basic
income per share is computed based on weighted average shares outstanding.  Diluted income per share considers the
effect of outstanding options, restricted shares warrants and convertible or
redeemable securities.

Stock
Based Compensation:

In 2002 and prior years, the Company accounted for employee stock
options using the intrinsic value method. Under the intrinsic value method
compensation cost is measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price
of the Company’s stock at the date of grant over the exercise price of the option
granted. Compensation cost for stock options, if any, is recognized ratably
over the vesting period.  The Company’s
policy is to grant options with an exercise price equal to 100% of the market
price of the Company’s stock on the grant date. Accordingly, no compensation
cost has been recognized for the Company’s stock option grants.  Effective January 1, 2003, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 123 “Accounting for Stock Based Compensation” as amended by
SFAS No. 148 “Accounting for Stock - Based Compensation - Transition
and Disclosure.”  The Company adopted
SFAS No. 123 prospectively by valuing and accounting for employee stock options
granted in 2003 and thereafter.  The
Company utilizes a binomial valuation model and appropriate market assumptions
to determine the value of each grant. 
Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
over the vesting period for all grants subsequent to 2002.  See Note 9. Stock-Based Compensation, for
pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, assuming compensation costs for grants prior
to 2003 were recognized as compensation expense based on the fair value at the
grant dates.

In addition to employee stock option grants, the Company has also
granted restricted shares to certain of its employees that vest over a three to
five year period.  The Company records
the value of each restricted share award as stock-based compensation expense
based on the Company’s closing stock price on the NYSE on the date of grant on
a straight-line basis over the vesting period. 
As of December 31, 2003, the Company has 246,030 restricted shares or
rights to receive restricted shares outstanding to employees of the Company,
excluding 626,566 shares issued to the Company’s President in connection with
his employment agreement.  The Company
recognized $1,898,000 and $1,868,000 of stock-based compensation expense in
2003 and 2002 for the portion of these shares that vested during each
year.  Dividends on both vested and
unvested shares are charged to retained earnings and amounted to $777,700 and
$210,100 for 2003 and 2002, respectively. 
Dividends on shares that are canceled or terminated prior to vesting are
charged to compensation expense in the period they are cancelled or terminated.


Recently
Issued Accounting Standards

FASB Interpretation No.
46-Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (“FIN 46”)

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, as amended in December 2003 by
FIN 46R, which deferred the effective date until the first interim or annual
reporting period ending after March 15, 2004. 
FIN 46R requires the consolidation of an entity by an enterprise known
as a “primary beneficiary,” (i) if that enterprise has a variable interest that
will absorb a majority of the entity’s expected losses, if they occur, receive
a majority of the entity’s expected residual returns, if they occur, or both
and (ii) if the entity is a variable interest entity (“VIE”), as defined.  An entity qualifies as a variable interest
entity if (i) the total equity investment at risk in the entity is not
sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support from other parties or (ii) the equity investors
do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest in the
entity.  The initial determination of
whether an entity is a variable interest entity shall be made as of the date at
which an enterprise becomes involved with the entity and re-evaluated as of the
date of triggering events, as defined. 
The Company has evaluated each partially-owned entity to determine
whether any qualify as a VIE, and if so, whether the Company is the primary
beneficiary, as defined.  The Company
has determined that its investment in Newkirk MLP, in which it owns a 22.6%
equity interest (see Note 5 – Investments in Partially-Owned Entities),
qualifies as a VIE.  The Company has
determined that it is not considered the primary beneficiary and, accordingly,
consolidation is not required.  The
Company’s maximum exposure to loss as a result of its involvement in Newkirk is
limited to its equity investment of approximately $138,762,000, as of December
31, 2003.  In addition, the Company has
variable interests in certain other entities which are primarily financing
arrangements.  The Company has evaluated
these entities in accordance with FIN 46R and has determined that they are not
VIEs.  Based on the Company’s
evaluations, it does not believe that the adoption of FIN 46R will have a
material effect on its consolidated financial statements.

SFAS No. 150-Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity

In May 2003, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 150 which establishes standards for classifying and measuring
as liabilities certain financial instruments that embody obligations of the
issuer and have characteristics of both liabilities and equity.  The adoption of SFAS No. 150 on July 1, 2003
caused the Company to reclassify all of its Series F-1 Preferred Units ($10
million liquidation value) from minority interest to a liability on its
consolidated balance sheet, as those units may be settled by the issuance of a
variable number of the Company’s common shares.  In connection therewith, the Company also reclassified $225,000
of payments made to the holders of these units in the three months ended
December 31, 2003 as interest expense.

On November 7, 2003, the FASB deferred, indefinitely, the application
of paragraphs 9 and 10 of SFAS No. 150 as it relates to mandatory redeemable
non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries in order to address a
number of interpretation and implementation issues.  The Company has determined that one of its consolidated, finite-life
joint ventures qualifies as a mandatory redeemable non-controlling
interest.  If the Company were required
to adopt the provisions of paragraphs 9 and 10 as currently written, the
Company would have to reclassify as a liability, amounts included in minority
interest of approximately $1.6 million and record the minority partner’s
interest as a liability at its estimated settlement value which would result in
a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of approximately $15.6
million.  This liability would be
required to be reviewed each quarter and any changes in its settlement value
would be recorded as interest expense.


3.

Acquisitions
and Dispositions

Acquisitions:

The Company completed approximately $530,400,000 of real estate
acquisitions and investments in 2003 and $1,834,000,000 in 2002.  These acquisitions were consummated through
subsidiaries or preferred stock affiliates of the Company.  Related net assets and results of operations
have been included in these financial statements since their respective dates
of acquisition.  The pro forma effect of
the individual acquisitions and in the aggregate other than Charles E. Smith
Commercial Realty, were not material to the Company’s historical results of
operations.

Acquisitions of individual properties are recorded as acquisitions of
real estate assets.  Acquisitions of
businesses are accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The
purchase price for property acquisitions and businesses acquired is allocated
to acquired assets and assumed liabilities using their relative fair values as
of the acquisition date based on valuations and other studies. Initial
valuations are subject to change until such information is finalized no later
than 12 months from the acquisition date.

Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty
Investment (“CESCR”)

On January 1, 2002, the Company completed the combination of CESCR
with Vornado.  Prior to the combination,
Vornado owned a 34% interest in CESCR. 
The consideration for the remaining 66% of CESCR was approximately
$1,600,000,000, consisting of 15.6 million newly issued Operating
Partnership units and approximately $1 billion of debt (66% of CESCR’s total
debt).  The purchase price paid by the
Company was determined based on the weighted average closing price of the
equity issued to CESCR unit holders for the period beginning two business days
before and ending two business days after the date the acquisition was agreed
to and announced on October 19, 2001. 
The Company also capitalized approximately $32,000,000 of acquisition
related costs, including advisory, legal and other professional fees that were
incurred in connection with the acquisition. 
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at January 1, 2002, the date of acquisition.

(Amounts in thousands)

The Company’s estimate of the weighted average useful life of acquired
intangibles is approximately three years. 
This acquisition was recorded as a business combination under the
purchase method of accounting.  The
purchase price was allocated to acquired assets and assumed liabilities using
their relative fair values as of January 1, 2002 based on valuations and
other studies.  The operations of CESCR
are consolidated into the accounts of the Company beginning January 1,
2002.  Prior to this date the Company
accounted for its 34% interest on the equity method.


The unaudited pro forma information set forth below presents the
Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income for the year ended
December 31, 2001 as if the following transactions had occurred on
January 1, 2001, (i) the acquisition of CESCR described above and
(ii) the Company’s November 21, 2001 sale of 9,775,000 common shares and
the use of proceeds to repay indebtedness.

Crystal Gateway
One

On July 1, 2002, the Company acquired a 360,000 square foot office
building from a limited partnership, which was approximately 50% owned by
Mr. Robert H. Smith and Mr. Robert P. Kogod, trustees of
the Company, and members of the Smith and Kogod families, in exchange for
approximately 325,700 newly issued Vornado Operating Partnership units (valued
at $13,679,000) and the assumption of $58,500,000 of debt.  The building is located in the
Crystal City complex in Arlington, Virginia.  The operations of Crystal Gateway One
are consolidated into the accounts of the Company from the date of acquisition.

Building
Maintenance Service Company (“BMS”)

On January 1, 2003, the Company acquired for $13,000,000 in cash BMS,
which provides cleaning, security and engineering services principally to the
Company’s Manhattan office properties. 
This company was previously owned by the estate of Bernard Mendik
and certain other individuals including David R. Greenbaum, one of the
Company’s executive officers.  This acquisition
was recorded as a business combination under the purchase method of
accounting.  Accordingly, the operations
of BMS are consolidated into the accounts of the Company beginning January 1,
2003.


Kaempfer Company (“Kaempfer”)

On April 9, 2003, the Company acquired Kaempfer which owns partial
interests in six Class “A” office properties in Washington D.C. containing
1.8 million square feet, manages and leases these properties and four others
for which it receives customary fees and has options to acquire certain other
real estate interests, including the Waterfront project discussed below.  Kaempfer’s equity interest in the properties
approximates 5.0%.  The aggregate
purchase price for the equity interests and the management and leasing business
was $32,200,000 (consisting of $28,600,000 in cash and approximately
99,300 Operating Partnership units valued at $3,600,000) and may be increased
by up to $9,000,000 based on the performance of the management company.  This acquisition was recorded as a business
combination under the purchase method of accounting.  Accordingly, the operations of Kaempfer are consolidated into the
accounts of the Company beginning April 9, 2003.

On October 7, 2003, the Company acquired a 2.5% interest in the
planned redevelopment of Waterfront, located at 401 M Street, a mixed-use
project in Washington D.C. (the “Waterfront interest”) for $2,171,000, of which
the Company paid $1,545,000 in cash and issued 12,500 Operating Partnership
units valued at $626,000.  The
partnership units were issued to Mitchell N. Schear, one of the partners
in the Waterfront interest, who became the President of the Company’s CESCR
division.

Broad Street

On May 2, 2003, the Company acquired the remaining 40% of a
78-year leasehold interest in 20 Broad Street it did not already own.  The purchase price was approximately
$30,000,000 in cash.  20 Broad Street
contains 466,000 square feet of office space, of which 348,000 square feet is
leased to the New York Stock Exchange. 
Prior to the acquisition of the remaining 40%, the Company consolidated
the operations of this property and reflected the 40% interest that it did not
own as a component of minority interest. 
Subsequent to this acquisition, the Company no longer reflects the 40%
minority interest.

2101 L Street

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of 2101 L
Street, a 370,000 square foot office building located in Washington D.C.  The consideration for the acquisition consisted
of approximately 1.1 million newly issued Operating Partnership units (valued
at approximately $49,517,000) and the assumption of existing mortgage debt and
transaction costs totaling approximately $32,000,000.  Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod, trustees of Vornado,
together with family members owned approximately 24 percent of the limited
partnership that sold the building and Mr. Smith was a general partner.  On August 5, 2003, the Company repaid
the mortgage of $29,056,000.

Las Catalinas
Mall

On September 23, 2002, the Company increased its interest in the Las
Catalinas Mall located in Caguas, Puerto Rico (San Juan area) to 100% by
acquiring the 50% of the mall and 25% of the Kmart anchor store it did not
already own. The purchase price was $48,000,000, of which $16,000,000 was paid
in cash and $32,000,000 was debt assumed. 
The Las Catalinas Mall, which opened in 1997, contains 493,000 square
feet, including a 123,000 square foot Kmart and a 138,000 square foot Sears
owned by the tenant.  Prior to
September 23, 2002, the Company accounted for its investment on the equity
method.  Subsequent to this date the
operations of Las Catalinas are consolidated into the accounts of the
Company.


Monmouth Mall

On October 10, 2002, a joint venture in which the Company has a 50%
interest, acquired the Monmouth Mall, an enclosed super regional shopping
center located in Eatontown, New Jersey containing approximately
1.5 million square feet, including four department stores, three of which
aggregating 719,000 square feet are owned by the tenants.  The purchase price was approximately
$164,700,000, including transaction costs of $4,400,000.  The Company made a $7,000,000 cash
investment in the form of common equity to the venture and provided it with
cash of $23,500,000 representing preferred equity yielding 14%.  The venture financed the purchase of the
Mall with $135,000,000 of floating rate debt at LIBOR plus 2.05%, with a LIBOR
floor of 2.50% on $35,000,000, a three year term and two one-year
extension options.  The Company accounts
for its investment on the equity method.

Bergen Mall

On December 12, 2003, the Company acquired the Bergen Mall for
approximately $145,000,000. This purchase was funded as part of a Section 1031
tax-free “like-kind” exchange with a portion of the proceeds from the sale of
the Company’s Two Park Avenue property. 
The Bergen Mall is a 903,000 square foot shopping center located on
Route 4 East in Paramus, New Jersey. The center is anchored by Macy’s, Value
City, Marshalls and Off Saks Fifth Avenue. 
The Company intends to expand, re-tenant and redevelop the center in
order to reposition the asset.  On January
27, 2004, the Company entered into an agreement to modify the Value City lease
to give the Company a one-year option to terminate the lease no earlier than
one year after notification and upon payment of $12,000,000 to the tenant.  The present value of this option is
reflected in the acquisition price and is included in other liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheet.

General
Motors Building  Mezzanine Loans

On October 20, 2003 the Company
made a $200 million mezzanine loan secured by partnership interests in the
General Motors Building. The General Motors Building was acquired by Macklowe
Properties in September 2003 for approximately $1.4 billion. Vornado’s loan is
subordinate to $900 million of other debt. The loan is based on a rate of LIBOR
plus 8.685% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%) and currently yields 10.185%.  Further, on October 30, 2003, the
Company made an additional $25 million loan, as part of a $50 million loan, the
balance of which was funded by an affiliate of Soros Fund Management LLC. This
loan, which is junior to the $1.1 billion of loans noted above, is based on a
rate of LIBOR plus 12.81% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%) and currently yields
14.31%. These loans mature in October 2005, with three one-year extensions.

Forest Plaza Shopping Center

On February 3, 2004, the Company acquired the Forest Plaza Shopping
Center for approximately $32,500,000, of which $14,000,000 was paid in cash,
and $18,500,000 was debt assumed.  The
purchase was funded as part of Section 1031 tax-free “like kind” exchange with
the remaining portion of the proceeds from the sale of the Company’s Two Park
Avenue property.  Forest Plaza is a
165,000 square foot shopping center located in Staten Island, New York,
anchored by a Waldbaum’s Supermarket.

Other

On December 31, 2002, the Company and Crescent Real Estate Equities
formed a joint venture to acquire the Carthage, Missouri and Kansas City,
Kansas quarries from AmeriCold Logistics, the Company’s tenant at the cold
storage warehouses (Temperature Controlled Logistics) facilities for
$20,000,000 in cash (appraised value). 
The Company contributed cash of $8,800,000 to the joint venture
representing its 44% interest.  The
Company accounts for its investment in the venture on the equity method.

The Company entered into an agreement to acquire a 62,000 square foot
free-standing retail building located at 25 W. 14

th

Street in
Manhattan for $40,000,000.  The
building, which was recently renovated, is 87% occupied as of December 31,
2003.  The acquisition is expected to be
completed in the second quarter of 2004.


Dispositions:

The following sets forth the details of sales, dispositions, write-offs
and other similar transactions for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002
and 2001:

Gains on Sales of Real Estate
(Discontinued Operations in 2003):

On November 3, 2003, the Company sold its Hagerstown, Maryland shopping
center property for $3,100,000, which resulted in a net gain on sale after
closing costs of $1,945,000.

On October 10, 2003, the Company sold Two Park Avenue, a
965,000 square foot office building, for $292,000,000 to SEB
Immobilien-Investment GMBH, a German capital investment company, which resulted
in a net gain on the sale after closing costs of $156,433,000.

On January 9, 2003, the Company sold its Baltimore, Maryland shopping
center for $4,752,000, which resulted in a net gain on the sale after closing
costs of $2,644,000.

On August 6, 2001, the Company sold its leasehold interest in
550/600 Mamaroneck Avenue for $22,500,000, which approximated book value.

On May 17, 2001, the Company sold its 50% interest in
570 Lexington Avenue for $60,000,000, which resulted in a net gain on sale
after closing costs of $12,445,000.

In September 1998, Atlantic City condemned the Company’s
property.  In the third quarter of 1998,
the Company recorded a gain of $1,694,000, which reflected the condemnation
award of $3,100,000, net of the carrying value of the property of
$1,406,000.  The Company appealed the
amount and on June 27, 2001, was awarded an additional $3,050,000.

On February 2, 2004, the Palisades Venture in which the Company owns a
75% interest entered into an agreement to sell its only asset, a 538 unit
high-rise residential apartment tower in Fort Lee, New Jersey, for
$222,500,000.  On February 27, 2004, the
Company acquired the remaining 25% interest it did not previously own for
approximately $17,000,000.  The
Company’s gain on sale after closing costs will be approximately
$70,000,000.  The sale, which is subject
to customary closing conditions, is expected to be completed by the third
quarter of 2004.

Net gains (losses) on disposition of
wholly-owned and partially-owned assets other than depreciable real estate:


Net gains (losses) on wholly-owned and partially-owned assets other
than depreciable real estate:

Primestone
Settlement of Guarantees (2003) and Foreclosure and Impairment Losses (2002)

On September 28, 2000, the Company made a $62,000,000 loan to
Primestone Investment Partners, L.P. (“Primestone”).  The Company received a 1% up-front fee and was entitled to
receive certain other fees aggregating approximately 3% upon repayment of the
loan.  The loan bore interest at 16% per
annum.  Primestone defaulted on the
repayment of this loan on October 25, 2001. 
The loan was subordinate to $37,957,000 of other debt of the borrower
that liened the Company’s collateral. 
On October 31, 2001, the Company purchased the other debt for its face
amount.  The loans were secured by
7,944,893 partnership units in Prime Group Realty, L.P., the operating
partnership of Prime Group Realty Trust (NYSE:PGE) and the partnership units
are exchangeable for the same number of common shares of PGE.  The loans are also guaranteed by affiliates
of Primestone.

On November 19, 2001, the Company sold, pursuant to a participation
agreement with a subsidiary of Cadim inc. (“Cadim”), a Canadian pension
fund, a 50% participation in both loans at par for approximately $50,000,000
reducing the Company’s net investment in the loans at December 31, 2001 to
$56,768,000 including unpaid interest and fees of $6,790,000.  The participation did not meet the criteria
for “sale accounting” under SFAS 140 because Cadim was not free to pledge
or exchange the assets.  Accordingly,
the Company was required to account for this transaction as a borrowing secured
by the loan, rather than as a sale of the loan by classifying the participation
as an “Other Liability” and continuing to report the outstanding loan balance
at 100% in “Notes and Mortgage Loans Receivable” on the consolidated balance
sheet.

On April 30, 2002, the Company and Cadim acquired the 7,944,893 partnership
units at a foreclosure auction.  The
price paid for the units by application of a portion of Primestone’s
indebtedness to the Company and Cadim was $8.35 per unit, the April 30, 2002
closing price of shares of PGE on the New York Stock Exchange.  On June 28, 2002, pursuant to the terms of
the participation agreement, the Company transferred 3,972,447 of the
partnership units to Cadim.

In the second quarter of 2002, in accordance with foreclosure
accounting, the Company recorded a loss on the Primestone foreclosure of
$17,671,000 calculated based on (i) the acquisition price of the units and
(ii) its valuation of the amounts realizable under the guarantees by
affiliates of Primestone, as compared with the net carrying amount of the
investment at April 30, 2002.  In the
third quarter of 2002, the Company recorded a $2,229,000 write-down on its
investment based on costs expended to realize the value of the guarantees.  Further, in the fourth quarter of 2002, the
Company recorded a $15,857,000 write-down of its investment in Prime Group
consisting of  (i) $14,857,000 to adj

u

st the carrying amount of the Prime Group
units to $4.61 per unit, the closing price of PGE shares on December 31, 2002
on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) $1,000,000 for estimated costs to
realize the value of the guarantees. 
The Company considered the decline in the value of the units which are
convertible into stock to be other than temporary as of December 31, 2002,
based on the fact that the market value of the units which are convertible into
stock had been less than its cost for more than six months, the severity of the
decline, market trends, the financial condition and near-term prospects of
Prime Group and other relevant factors.

On June 11, 2003, the Company exercised its right to exchange the
3,972,447 units it owned in Prime Group Realty L.P. for 3,972,447 common shares
in Prime Group Realty Trust (NYSE:PGE). 
Prior to the exchange, the Company accounted for its investment in the
partnership on the equity method. 
Subsequent to the exchange, the Company is accounting for its investment
in PGE as a marketable equity security-available for sale, as the Company’s
shares represent less than a 20% ownership interest in PGE (which is not a
partnership), the Company does not have significant influence and the common
shares have a readily determinable fair value. 
Accordingly, the carrying amount previously included in Investments and
Advances to Partially-Owned Entities was reclassified to Marketable Securities
on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. 
The Company is also required to mark these securities to market based on
the closing price of the PGE shares on the NYSE at the end of each reporting
period.  For the period from June 11,
2003 through December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a $6,623,000 unrealized
gain, which is not included in the Company’s net income, but is reflected as a
component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss in the Shareholders’ Equity
section of the consolidated balance sheet. 
From the date of exchange, income recognition is limited to dividends
received on the PGE shares.

On June 13, 2003, the Company received its $5,000,000 share of a
settlement with affiliates of Primestone Investment Partners of the
amounts due under the guarantees of the Primestone loans.  In connection therewith, the Company
recognized a $1,388,000 loss on settlement of the guarantees.


Gain on
Transfer of Mortgages

In the year ended
December 31, 2002, the Company recorded a net gain of approximately $2.1
million resulting from payments to the Company by third parties that assumed
certain of the Company’s mortgages. 
Under these transactions the Company paid to the third parties that
assumed the Company’s obligations the outstanding amounts due under the
mortgages and the third parties paid the Company for the benefit of assuming
the mortgages.  The Company has been
released by the creditors underlying these loans.

Net
Gain on Sale of Air Rights

In 2002, the Company constructed a $16.3 million community
facility and low-income residential housing development (the “30th Street
Venture”), in order to receive 163,728 square feet of transferable
development rights, generally referred to as “air rights”.  The Company donated the building to a
charitable organization.  The Company
sold 106,796 square feet of these air rights to third parties at an
average price of $120 per square foot. 
An additional 28,821 square feet of air rights was sold to
Alexander’s at a price of $120 per square foot for use at
Alexander’s 59th Street development project (the “59th Street
Project”).  In each case, the Company
received cash in exchange for air rights. 
The Company identified third party buyers for the remaining
28,111 square feet of air rights of the 30th Street Venture.  These third party buyers wanted to use the
air rights for the development of two projects located in the general area of
86th Street which was not within the required geographical radius of the
construction site nor in the same Community Board as the low-income housing and
community facility project.  The
30th Street Venture asked Alexander’s to sell 28,111 square feet of
the air rights it already owned to the third party buyers (who could use them)
and the 30th Street Venture would replace them with 28,111 square
feet of air rights.  In
October 2002, the Company sold 28,111 square feet of air rights to
Alexander’s for an aggregate sales price of $3,059,000 (an average of
$109 per square foot).  
Alexander’s then sold an equal amount of air rights to the third party
buyers for an aggregate sales price of $3,339,000 (an average of $119 per
square foot).

Gain
on Sale of Kinzie Park Condominium Units

The Company recognized gains of
$187,500 and $2,156,000 during 2003 and 2002, from the sale of residential
condos in Chicago, Illinois.

Write-off
Investments in Technology Companies

In the first quarter of 2001, the Company recorded a charge of
$4,723,000 resulting from the write-off of an equity investment in a technology
company.  In the second quarter of 2001,
the Company recorded an additional charge of $13,561,000 resulting from the
write-off of all of its remaining equity investments in technology companies
due to both the deterioration of the financial condition of these companies and
the lack of acceptance by the market of certain of their
products and services.  In the
fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded $1,481,000 of income resulting
from the reversal of a deferred liability relating to the termination of an
agreement permitting one of the technology companies access to its properties.

Park
Laurel Condominium Project

In 2001, the Park Laurel joint venture (69% interest owned by the
Company) completed the sale of 52 condominium units of the total
53 units and received proceeds of $139,548,000.  The Company’s share of the after tax net gain was
$15,657,000.  The Company’s share of the
after-tax net gain reflects $3,953,000 (net of tax benefit of $1,826,000) of
awards accrued under the venture’s incentive compensation plan.  In 2003 the Company sold the remaining unit
which resulted in after tax net gain to the Company of $94,000.

Write-off
of Net Investment in RTR

In the third quarter of 2001, the Company wrote-off its entire net
investment of $7,374,000 in RTR based on the operating losses and an assessment
of the value of the real estate.


4.

Discontinued
Operations

SFAS No. 144 requires discontinued operations presentation for
disposals of a “component” of an entity. 
In accordance with SFAS No. 144, for all periods presented, the Company
reclassified its consolidated statements of income to reflect income and
expenses for properties which became held for sale subsequent to December 31,
2003, as discontinued operations and reclassified its consolidated balance
sheets to reflect assets and liabilities related to such properties as assets
related to discontinued operations and liabilities related to discontinued
operations.

Assets related to discontinued operations consist primarily of real
estate, net of accumulated depreciation. 
The following table sets forth the balances of the assets related to
discontinued operations as of December 31, 2003 and 2002:

Liabilities related to discontinued operations represent the Palisades
mortgage payable of $120,000,000 and $100,000,000 as of December 31, 2003 and
2002, respectively.

The combined results of operations of the assets related to discontinued
operations for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 are as follows:

See Note 3. – Acquisition and
Dispositions for details of gains on sale of real estate related to
discontinued operations in the year ended December 31, 2003.


5.

Investments in
Partially-Owned Entities

The Company’s investments in partially-owned entities and income
recognized from such investments are as follows:

Balance Sheet Data:

(1)

On February 5, 2004, AmeriCold Realty Trust completed
a $254,400 mortgage financing for 21 of its owned and 7 of its leased
temperature-controlled warehouses.  The
loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.95% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5% with
respect to $54,400 of the loan) and requires principal payments of $5,000
annually.  The loan matures in April
2009 and is pre-payable without penalty after February 5, 2006.  The net proceeds were approximately $225,000
after providing for usual escrows, closing costs and the repayment of $12,900
of existing mortgages on two of the warehouses, of which $135,000 was
distributed to the Company and the remainder was distributed to its partner.

(2)

On January 2, 2002, the Newkirk Joint
Ventures’ partnership interests were merged into a master limited partnership
(the “MLP”).  In conjunction with the
merger, the MLP completed a $225,000 mortgage financing collateralized by its
properties, subject to the existing first and certain second mortgages on those
properties.  The loan bears interest at
LIBOR plus 5.5% with a LIBOR floor of 3% (8.5% at December 31, 2003) and
matures on January 31, 2005, with two one-year extension options.  As a result of the financing on
February 6, 2002, the MLP repaid approximately $28,200 of existing debt
and distributed approximately $37,000 to the Company.  On November 24, 2003, Newkirk JV and the MLP obtained new
financing in the amount of $525,000.  Of
this amount $316,527 is secured by the Contract Rights and guaranteed by the
MLP and $208,473 is secured by the assets of the MLP.  The loan bears interest at a rate equal to the lesser of (i)
LIBOR plus 4.5% or (ii) Prime plus 2.5%. 
The loan matures on November 24, 2006 and has two one-year
extensions.  The proceeds of the loan
were used primarily to repay the MLP’s outstanding balance of the existing
$225,000 credit facility and to distribute funds to its partners.  The Company received its share of the
distribution (approximately $74,106) on November 24, 2003.

(3)

On October 10, 2002, a joint venture in
which the Company owns a 50% interest acquired the Monmouth Mall.

(4)

On June 11, 2003, the Company exercised its
right to exchange the 3,972,447 units it owned in Prime Group Realty L.P. for
3,972,447 common shares in Prime Group Realty Trust (NYSE:PGE).  Prior to the exchange, the Company accounted
for its investment in the partnership on the equity method.  Subsequent to the exchange, the Company is
accounting for its investment in PGE as a marketable equity security-available
for sale.


Below is a summary of the debt of partially owned entities as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, none of which is guaranteed by the Company.

(1)

On May 23,2003, the Company converted its
investment in Prime Group Realty L.P. into common shares of Prime Group Realty
Trust and from that date forward the investment is accounted for as a marketable
equity security.

Based on the Company’s ownership interest in the partially-owned
entities above, the Company’s share of the debt of these partially-owned
entities was $930,567,000 and $1,048,108,000 as of December 31, 2003 and
2002.


Income Statement Data:

(1)

2003 includes the Company’s $14,868 share of
Alexander’s stock appreciation rights compensation expense.  2002 includes the Company’s $3,431 share of
Alexander’s gain on sale of its Third Avenue property.  Equity in income in 2001 includes
(i) the Company’s $6,298 share of Alexander’s gain on sale of its
Fordham Road property, (ii) a charge of $1,684 representing the
Company’s share of abandoned development costs and (iii) $1,170
representing the Company’s share of Alexander’s gain on the early
extinguishment of debt on its Fordham Road property.  Management and leasing fee income include
$350 and $520 paid to the Company in 2002 and 2001 in connection with sales of
real estate.

(2)

Alexander’s capitalizes the fees and interest
charged by the Company.  Because the
Company owns 33.1% of Alexander’s, the Company recognizes 66.9% of such amounts
as income and the remainder is reflected as a reduction of the Company’s
carrying amount of the investment in Alexander’s.

(3)

The Company owned a 34% interest in
CESCR.  On January 1, 2002, the
Company acquired the remaining 66% of CESCR it did not previously own. Accordingly,
CESCR is consolidated as of January 1, 2002.

(4)

Represents the Company’s interests in
330 Madison Avenue (24.8%), 825 Seventh Avenue (50%), Fairfax Square
(20%), Kaempfer equity interests in six office buildings (.1% to 10%) and
570 Lexington Avenue (50%).  On
May 17, 2001, the Company sold its 50% interest in 570 Lexington
Avenue for $60,000, resulting in a gain of $12,445 which is not included in
income in the table above.

(5)

On June 11, 2003, the Company exercised its
right to exchange the 3,972,447 units it owned in Prime Group Realty L.P. for
3,972,447 common shares in Prime Group Realty Trust (NYSE:PGE).  Prior to the exchange, the Company accounted
for its investment in the partnership on the equity method.  Subsequent to the exchange, the Company is
accounting for its investment in PGE as a marketable equity security-available
for sale.


Alexander’s

The Company owns
1,655,000 common shares or 33.1% of the outstanding common stock of
Alexander’s at December 31, 2003. 
Alexander’s is managed by and its properties are leased and developed by
the Company pursuant to management, leasing and development agreements with
one-year terms expiring in March of each year, which are automatically renewable.  In conjunction with the closing of the
Alexander’s Lexington Avenue construction loan on July 3, 2002, these
agreements were revised to cover the Alexander’s Lexington Avenue property
separately.  Further, the
Lexington Avenue management and development agreements were amended to
provide for a term lasting until substantial completion of the development of
the property, with automatic renewals, and for the payment of the development
fee upon the earlier of January 3, 2006, or the payment in full of the
construction loan encumbering the property. 
The Company is entitled to a development fee estimated to be
approximately $26,300,000, based on 6% of construction costs, as defined, of
which $6,935,000 and $6,915,000 has been recognized as income during the years
ended December 31, 2003 and 2002.

At December 31, 2003, the Company had loans receivable from
Alexander’s of $124,000,000, including $29,000,000 drawn under a $50,000,000
line of credit.  The maturity date of
the loans is the earlier of January 3, 2006 or the date the Alexander’s
Lexington Avenue construction loan is finally repaid.  The Company accrues interest at 12.48% on the loans, which resets
quarterly using a 9.48% spread to one-year treasuries with a 3% floor for
treasuries.

On February 13, 2004, Alexander’s completed a $400,000,000 mortgage
financing on the Office Space of its Lexington Avenue development project
placed by German American Capital Corporation, an affiliate of Deutsche
Bank.  The loan bears interest at 5.33%,
matures in February 2014 and beginning in the third year, provides for
principal payments based on a 25-year amortization schedule such that over the
remaining eight years of the loan, ten years of amortization will be paid.  Of the loan proceeds, $253,529,000 was used
to repay the entire amount outstanding under the Construction Loan with HVB
Real Estate Capital (Hypo).  The
Construction Loan was modified so that the remaining availability is
$237,000,000, which is approximately the amount estimated to complete the
Lexington Avenue development project. 
The interest rate on the Construction Loan is LIBOR plus 2.5% (currently
3.64%) and matures in January 2006, with two one-year extensions.  The collateral for the Construction Loan is
the same, except that the Office Space has been removed from the lien.  Further, the Construction Loan permits the
release of the retail space for $15,000,000 and requires all proceeds from the
sale of the residential condominiums units to be applied to the Construction
Loan balance until it is finally repaid. 
In connection with reducing the principal amount of the Construction
loan Alexander’s will write-off $3,050,000 of unamortized deferred financing
costs in the first quarter of 2004, of which the Company’s share is $1,010,000.

The Company has agreed to guarantee to the construction lender, the
lien free, timely completion of the construction of the project and funding of
project costs in excess of a stated loan budget, if not funded by Alexander’s
(the “Completion Guarantee”).  The $6,300,000
estimated fee payable by Alexander’s to the Company for the Completion
Guarantee is 1% of construction costs (as defined).  Based upon the current status of construction, Management does
not anticipate the need to fund pursuant to the Completion Guarantee.

Agreements
with Alexander’s

Alexander’s is managed by and its properties are leased by the Company,
pursuant to agreements with a one-year term expiring in March of each year
which are automatically renewable. The annual management fee payable to the
Company by Alexander’s is equal to the sum of (i) $3,000,000, (ii) 3%
of the gross income from the Kings Plaza Mall, and (iii) 6% of development
costs with minimum guaranteed fees of $750,000 per annum.

The leasing
agreement provides for the Company to generally receive a fee of (i) 3% of
sales proceeds and (ii) 3% of lease rent for the first ten years of a
lease term, 2% of lease rent for the 11

th

through the 20

th

years of a lease term and 1% of lease rent for the 21

st

through 30

th

years of a lease term, subject to the payment of rents by Alexander’s
tenants.  Such amount is receivable
annually in an amount not to exceed $2,500,000 until the present value of such
installments (calculated at a discount rate of 9% per annum) equals the amount
that would have been paid at the time the transactions which gave rise to the
commissions occurred.  At
December 31, 2003, $14,450,000 is due to the Company under this agreement.

Property
Sales

On August 30, 2002, Alexander’s sold its Third Avenue
property, located in the Bronx, New York, which resulted in a gain of
$10,366,000.  On January 12, 2001,
Alexander’s sold its Fordham Road property located in the Bronx, New York, for
$25,500,000, which resulted in a gain of $19,026,000.  In addition, Alexander’s paid off the mortgage on its Fordham
Road property at a discount, which resulted in a gain from early extinguishment
of debt of $3,534,000 in the first quarter of 2001.


6.

Notes and Mortgage
Loans Receivable

General
Motors Building Mezzanine Loans

On October 20, 2003, the Company
made a $200,000,000 mezzanine loan secured by partnership interests in the
General Motors Building.  The Company’s
loan is subordinate to $900,000,000 of other debt.  The loan is based on a rate of LIBOR plus 8.685% (with a LIBOR
floor of 1.5%) and currently yields 10.185%. 
On October 30, 2003, the Company made an additional $25,000,000 loan, as
part of a $50,000,000 loan, the balance of which was funded by an affiliate of
Soros Fund Management LLC.  This loan,
which is junior to the $1,100,000,000 of loans noted above, is based on a rate
of LIBOR plus 12.81% (with a LIBOR floor of 1.5%) and currently yields 14.31%.  The loans mature in October 2005, with three
one-year extensions.

Loan
to Commonwealth Atlantic Properties (“CAPI”)

On March 4, 1999, the Company made an additional $242,000,000
investment in CESCR by contributing to CESCR the land under certain CESCR
office properties in Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia and partnership
interests in certain CESCR subsidiaries. 
The Company acquired these assets from CAPI, an affiliate of Lazard
Freres Real Estate Investors L.L.C., for $242,000,000, immediately prior to the
contribution to CESCR. In addition, the Company acquired from CAPI for
$8,000,000 the land under a Marriott Hotel located in Crystal City.  The Company paid the $250,000,000 purchase
price to CAPI by issuing 4,998,000 of the Company’s Series E-1 convertible
preferred units.  In connection with
these transactions, the Company agreed to make a five-year $41,200,000 loan to
CAPI with interest at 8%, increasing to 9% ratably over the term.  The loan is secured by approximately 1.1
million of the Company’s Series E-1 convertible preferred units issued to
CAPI.  Each Series E-1 convertible
preferred unit is convertible into 1.1364 of the Company’s common shares.  As of December 31, 2003, the balance of the
loan was $38,500,000.  In February 2004,
CAPI converted all of its Series E-1 units into 5,679,727 Vornado common shares.  Subsequent to the conversion the loan is
secured by 1,250,000 Vornado common shares.

Loan
to Vornado Operating Company (“Vornado Operating”)

At December 31, 2003, the amount outstanding
under the revolving credit agreement with Vornado Operating was $21,989,000.  Vornado Operating has disclosed that there
is substantial doubt as to its ability to continue as a going concern and its
ability to discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business.  Vornado Operating has incurred losses since
its inception and in the aggregate its investments do not, and for the
foreseeable future are not expected to, generate sufficient cash flow to pay
all of its debts and expenses.  Vornado
Operating estimates that it has adequate borrowing capacity under its credit
facility with the Company to meet its cash needs until December 31, 2004.  However, the principal, interest and fees
outstanding under the line of credit come due on such date.  Further, Vornado Operating states that its
only investee, AmeriCold Logistics (“Tenant”), anticipates that its Landlord, a
partnership 60% owned by the Company and 40% owned by Crescent Real Estate
Equities, will need to restructure the leases between the Landlord and the
Tenant to provide additional cash flow to the Tenant (the Landlord has
previously restructured the leases to provide additional cash flow to the
Tenant).  Management anticipates a
further lease restructuring in 2004, although the Landlord is under no
obligation to do so and there can be no assurance that it will do so.  Vornado Operating is expected to have a
source to repay the debt under this facility from the lease restructuring or
other options, although not by its original due date.  Since January 1, 2002, the Company has not recognized interest
income on the debt under this facility. 
The Company has assessed the collectibility of this loan as of December
31, 2003 and determined that it is not impaired.

Dearborn
Center Mezzanine Construction Loan

On March 19, 2003, the outstanding amount of $29,401,000 was received
from Dearborn representing the full satisfaction of the mezzanine construction
loan.  The loan bore interest at
12% per annum plus additional interest of $5,655,000 which was received
upon repayment.

Other

On September 11, 2003, the Company made a loan of $7,300,000 to a
non-affiliated party.  The loan was
collateralized by the borrower’s ownership of the 150,067 shares of Vornado
Series C-1 convertible preferred operating partnership units and 202,411 Vornado
Class A operating partnership units.  On
November 18, 2003, the Company acquired the units for $15,998,000 (equivalent
to 373,952 Class A at $42.78 per unit) from the borrower for $8,698,000 in cash
and the balance through the repayment of the loan.


7.

Debt

Following is a summary of the Company’s debt:

See notes on page 140.


See notes on the
following page.


(1)

On February 5, 2004, the Company completed a $300,000
refinancing of Two Penn Plaza.  The loan
bears interest at 4.97% and matures in February 2011.  The Company retained net proceeds of $39,000 after repaying the
existing $151,000 loan, $75,000 of the $275,000 mortgage loan on its One Penn
Plaza property and the $33,000 mortgage loan on 866 U.N. Plaza.

(2)

On June 9, 2003, the Company completed a $170,000
mortgage of its 770 Broadway property. 
The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.05% is pre-payable after one
year without penalty and matures in June 2006 with two-one year extension
options.  The proceeds of the new loan
were used primarily to repay (i) a $18,926 mortgage loan on 33 North Dearborn,
(ii) a $69,507 mortgage loan on Tysons Dulles Plaza, and (iii) $40,000 of
borrowing under the Company’s unsecured revolving credit facility.  In connection with the closing of the 770
Broadway loan, the Company purchased an interest rate cap, and simultaneously
sold an interest rate cap with the same terms. 
Since these instruments do not reduce the Company’s net interest rate
risk exposure, they do not qualify as hedges and changes in their respective
values are charged to earnings.  As the
significant terms of these arrangements are the same, the effects of a
revaluation of these instruments is expected to substantially offset one
another.  Simultaneously with the
completion of the 770 Broadway loan, the Company used cash from its mortgage
escrow account to repay $133,659 of the $153,659 of debt previously cross-collateralized
by its 770 Broadway and 595 Madison Avenue properties.

(3)

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed a refinancing
of its 909 Third Avenue mortgage loan. 
The new $125,000 mortgage loan is for a term of three years and bears
interest at LIBOR plus .70% and has two one-year extension options.  Simultaneously with the completion of the
909 Third Avenue loan, the Company used cash from its mortgage escrow account
to repay the balance of $20,000 of debt previously cross-collateralized by its
770 Broadway and 595 Madison Avenue properties.  In connection with the closing of the 909 Third Avenue loan, the
Company purchased an interest rate cap and simultaneously sold an interest rate
cap with the same terms.  Since these
instruments do not reduce the Company’s net interest rate risk exposure, they
do not qualify as hedges and changes in their respective values are charged to
earnings.  As the significant terms of
these arrangements are the same, the effects of a revaluation of these
instruments is expected to substantially offset one another.

(4)

On July 31, 2003, the Company replaced the mortgage on
the Commerce Executive property with (i) a new $43,000 non-recourse mortgage
loan an LIBOR plus 1.50% with a two-year term and one-year extension option and
(ii) a $10,000 unsecured loan for three years at LIBOR plus .65% with a
one-year extension option.

(5)

On June 24, 2002, the Company completed an
offering of $500,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior unsecured
notes due June 15, 2007.  Interest
on the notes is payable semi-annually on June 15th and December 15th,
commencing December 15, 2002.  The
notes were priced at 99.856% of their face amount to yield 5.659%.  The net proceeds of approximately $496,300
were used to repay the mortgages payable on 350 North Orleans,
Two Park Avenue, the Merchandise Mart and Seven Skyline.  On June 27, 2002, the Company entered into
interest rate swaps that effectively converted the interest rate on the
$500,000 senior unsecured notes due 2007 from a fixed rate of 5.625% to a
floating rate of LIBOR plus .7725%, based upon the trailing 3 month LIBOR
rate (2.15% if set on December 31, 2002). 
As a result of the hedge accounting for the interest rate swap on the
Company’s senior unsecured debt, the Company recorded a fair value adjustment
of $34,245, as of December 31, 2002 which is equal to the fair value of
the interest rate swap asset.  The fair
value of the swap was $25,780 on December 31, 2003.

(6)

On June 21, 2002, one of the lenders purchased
the other participant’s interest in the loan. 
At the same time, the loan was extended for one year, with certain
modifications including, (i) making the risk of a loss due to terrorism (as
defined) not covered by insurance recourse to the Company and (ii) the granting
of two 1-year renewal options to the Company.

(7)

On November 25, 2003, the Company completed an
offering of $200,000, aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior unsecured
notes due December 1, 2010.  Interest on
the notes is payable semi-annually on June 1st and December 1st, commencing in
2004.  The notes were priced at 99.869%
of their face amount to yield 4.772%. The notes contain the same financial
covenants that are in the Company’s notes issued in June 2002, except the
maximum ratio of secured debt to total assets is now 50% (previously 55%). The
net proceeds of approximately $198,500 were used primarily to repay existing
mortgage debt.

(8)

On July 3, 2003, the Company entered into a new
$600,000 unsecured revolving credit facility which has replaced its $1 billion
unsecured revolving credit facility which was to mature in July 2003.  The new facility has a three-year term, a
one-year extension option and bears interest at LIBOR plus .65%.  The Company also has the ability under the
new facility to seek up to $800,000 of commitments during the facility’s
term.  The new facility contains
financial covenants similar to the prior facility.


The net carrying amount of properties collateralizing the notes and
mortgages amounted to $4,557,065,000 at December 31, 2003.  As at December 31, 2003, the principal
repayments required for the next five years and thereafter are as follows:

(Amounts in
thousands)


8.

Shareholders’ Equity

Common
Shares of Beneficial Interest

On February 25, 2002, the Company sold 1,398,743 common
shares based on the closing price of $42.96 on the NYSE.  The net proceeds to the Company were
approximately $56,453,000.

Series
A Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest

Holders of Series A Preferred Shares of beneficial interest are
entitled to receive dividends in an amount equivalent to $3.25 per annum per
share.  These dividends are cumulative
and payable quarterly in arrears.  The
Series A Preferred Shares are convertible at any time at the option of their
respective holders at a conversion rate of 1.38504 common shares per Series A
Preferred Share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.  In addition, upon the satisfaction of
certain conditions the Company, at its option, may redeem the $3.25 Series A
Preferred Shares at a current conversion rate of 1.38504 common shares per
Series A Preferred Share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.  At no time will the Series A Preferred
Shares be redeemable for cash.

Series
B Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest

Holders of Series B Preferred Shares of beneficial interest are
entitled to receive dividends at an annual rate of 8.5% of the liquidation
preference, or $2.125 per Series B Preferred Share per annum.  These dividends are cumulative and payable
quarterly in arrears.  The Series B
Preferred Shares are not convertible into or exchangeable for any other
property or any other securities of the Company at the election of the
holders.  However, subject to certain
limitations relating to the source of funds used in connection with any such
redemption, on or after March 17, 2004 (or sooner under limited circumstances),
the Company, at its option, may redeem Series B Preferred Shares at a
redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends
through the date of redemption.  The
Series B Preferred Shares have no maturity date and will remain outstanding
indefinitely unless redeemed by the Company.

On February 17, 2004, the Company has called for the redemption of all
of the outstanding Series B Preferred Shares. 
The shares will be redeemed on March 17, 2004 at the redemption price of
$25.00 per share, aggregating $85,000,000 plus accrued dividends.  The redemption amount exceeds the carrying
amount by $2,100,000, representing original issuance costs.  These costs will be recorded as a reduction
to earnings in arriving at net income applicable to common shares, in
accordance with the July 2003 EITF clarification of Topic D-42.

Series
C Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest

Holders of Series C Preferred Shares of beneficial interest are
entitled to receive dividends at an annual rate of 8.5% of the liquidation
preference, or $2.125 per Series C Preferred Share per annum.  These dividends are cumulative and payable
quarterly in arrears.  The Series C Preferred
Shares are not convertible into or exchangeable for any other property or any
other securities of the Company at the election of the holders.  However, subject to certain limitations
relating to the source of funds used in connection with any such redemption, on
or after May 17, 2004 (or sooner under limited circumstances), the Company, at
its option, may redeem Series C Preferred Shares at a redemption price of
$25.00 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends through the date of
redemption.  The Series C Preferred
Shares have no maturity date and will remain outstanding indefinitely unless
redeemed by the Company.

Series
D-10 Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest

Holders of Series D-10 Preferred Shares of beneficial interest are
entitled to receive dividends at an annual rate of 7.0% of the liquidation
preference, or $1.75 per Series D-10 Preferred Share per annum.  These dividends are cumulative and payable
quarterly in arrears.  The Series D-10
Preferred Shares are not convertible into or exchangeable for any other
property or any other securities of the Company at the election of the
holders.  On or after November 17, 2008
(or sooner under limited circumstances), the Company, at its option, may redeem
Series D-10 Preferred Shares at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus
any accrued and unpaid dividends through the date of redemption.  The Series D-10 Preferred Shares have no
maturity date and will remain outstanding indefinitely unless redeemed by the
Company.


9.

Stock-based
Compensation

The Company’s Share Option Plan (the “Plan”) provides for grants of
incentive and non-qualified stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation
rights and performance shares to certain employees and officers of the Company.

Restricted stock awards are granted at the market price on the date of
grant and vest over a 3 to 5 year period. 
The Company recognizes the value of restricted stock as compensation
expense based on the Company’s closing stock price on the NYSE on the date of
grant on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.  As of December 31, 2003, there are 246,030
restricted shares outstanding, excluding 626,566 shares issued to the Company’s
President in connection with his employment agreement.  The Company recognized $2,599,000 and
$1,868,000 of compensation expense in 2003 and 2002 for the portion of these
shares that vested during each year.  Dividends
paid on both vested and unvested shares are charged directly to retained
earnings and amounted to $777,700 and $210,100 for 2003 and 2002,
respectively.  Dividends on shares that
are cancelled or terminated prior to vesting are charged to compensation
expense in the period of the cancellation or termination.

Stock options are granted at an exercise price equal to 100% of the
market price of the Company’s stock on the date of grant, vest pro-rata over
three years and expire 10 years from the date of grant.  As of December 31, 2003 there are 14,153,587
options outstanding, of which 125,000 were granted during 2003.  On January 1, 2003, the Company elected to
adopted SFAS 123 – Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, on a prospective
basis covering all grants subsequent to 2002. 
Under SFAS 123, the Company recognizes compensation expense for the fair
value of options granted on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.  For the year ended December 31, 2003, the
Company recognized $77,200 of compensation expense related to the options
granted during 2003.  Grants prior to 2003
are accounted for under the intrinsic value method under which compensation
expense is measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the
Company’s stock at the date of grant over the exercise price of the option
granted.  As the Company’s policy is to
grant options with an exercise price equal to 100% of the quoted market price
on the grant date, no compensation expense has been recognized for options
granted prior to 2003.  If compensation
cost for grants prior to 2003 were recognized as compensation expense based on
the fair value at the grant dates, net income and income per share would have
been reduced to the pro-forma amounts below:


The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant
using an option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions
used for grants in the periods ending December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

A summary of the Plan’s status and changes during the years then ended,
is presented below:

The following table summarizes information about options outstanding
under the Plan at December 31, 2003:

Shares available for future
grant under the Plan at December 31, 2003 were 9,728,792, of which
2,500,000 are subject to shareholder approval.


10.

Retirement Plan

The Company has two defined benefit pension plans (the “Plans”), a
Vornado Realty Trust Retirement Plan (“Vornado Plan”) and a Merchandise Mart
Properties Pension Plan (“Mart Plan”). 
Benefits under the Plans were primarily based on the employee’s years of
service and compensation during employment. 
The Company’s funding policy for the Plans is based on contributions at
the minimal amounts required by law. 
The benefits under the Vornado Plan and the Mart Plan were frozen in
December 1997 and June 1999, respectively.

The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for the Vornado Plan
and the Mart Plan.

Obligations and Funded Status

The following table sets forth the Plans’ funded status and amounts
recognized in the Company’s balance sheets:


Assumptions:

The Company periodically reviews its assumptions for the rate of return
on each Plan’s assets.  The assumptions
are based primarily on the long-term historical performance of the assets of
the Plans.  Differences in the rates of
return in the near term are recognized as gains or losses in the periods that
they occur.

Plan Assets

The Company has consistently applied what it believes to be a
conservative investment strategy for the Vornado Plan, investing primarily in
cash and cash equivalents and fixed income funds, including money market funds,
United States treasury bills, government bonds and mortgage back
securities.  Vornado Plan’s
weighted-average asset allocations by asset category are as follows:


The Company has consistently applied what it believes to be an
appropriate investment strategy for the Mart Plan, by investing in mutual funds
and funds held by insurance companies. 
Mart Plan’s weighted average asset allocations by asset category are as
follows:

Cash Flows

The Company expects to contribute $959,000 to the Plans in 2004.


11.

Leases

As
lessor:

The Company leases space to tenants under operating leases. Most of the
leases provide for the payment of fixed base rentals payable monthly in
advance. Shopping center leases provide for the pass-through to tenants of real
estate taxes, insurance and maintenance. Office building leases generally
require the tenants to reimburse the Company for operating costs and real
estate taxes above their base year costs. Shopping center leases also provide
for the payment by the lessee of additional rent based on a percentage of
the tenants’ sales. As of December 31, 2003, future base rental revenue
under non-cancelable operating leases, excluding rents for leases with an
original term of less than one year and rents resulting from the exercise of
renewal options, is as follows:

(Amounts in thousands)

These amounts do not include rentals based on tenants’ sales.  These percentage rents approximated
$3,662,000, $1,832,000, and $2,157,000, for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002, and 2001.

Except for the U.S. Government, which accounted for 12.7% of the
Company’s revenue, none of the Company’s tenants represented more than 10% of
total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Former Bradlees Locations

Property rentals for the year ended December 31, 2003, include
$5,000,000 of additional rent which, effective December 31, 2002, was re-allocated
to the former Bradlees locations in Marlton, Turnersville, Bensalem and
Broomall and is payable by Stop & Shop, pursuant to the Master
Agreement and Guaranty, dated May 1, 1992. 
This amount is in addition to all other rent guaranteed by Stop & Shop
for  the former Bradlees locations.  On January 8, 2003, Stop & Shop
filed a complaint with the United States District Court claiming the Company
has no right to reallocate and therefore continue to collect the $5,000,000 of
annual rent from Stop & Shop because of the expiration of the
East Brunswick, Jersey City, Middletown, Union and Woodbridge leases
to which the $5,000,000 of additional rent was previously allocated.  The Company believes the additional rent
provision of the guaranty expires at the earliest in 2012 and will vigorously
oppose Stop & Shop’s complaint.

In February 2003, Koninklijke Ahold NV, parent of
Stop & Shop, announced that it overstated its 2002 and 2001 earnings
by at least $500 million and is under investigation by the U.S. Justice
Department and Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Company cannot predict what effect, if any, this situation
may have on Stop & Shop’s ability to satisfy its obligation under the
Bradlees guarantees and rent for existing Stop & Shop leases aggregating
approximately $10.5 million per annum.


As
lessee:

The Company is a tenant under operating leases for certain properties.
These leases will expire principally during the next thirty years.  Future minimum lease payments under
operating leases at December 31, 2003, are as follows:

Rent expense was $15,593,000, $17,157,000, and
$15,433,000 for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001.


12.

Commitments and
Contingencies

At December 31, 2003, the Company’s $600,000,000 revolving credit
facility had a zero balance, and the Company utilized

$15,034,000

of availability under the
facility for letters of credit.

In conjunction with the closing of Alexander’s Lexington Avenue
construction loan on July 3, 2002, the Company agreed to guarantee to the
construction lender, the lien free, timely completion of the construction of
the project and funding of all project costs in excess of a stated budget, as
defined in the loan agreement, if not funded by Alexander’s (see note 5 —
Investments in Partially-Owned Entities).

The Company is also committed to fund up to $32,420,000 in connection
with its initial investment in two partially-owned entities.

Each of the Company’s properties has been subjected to varying degrees
of environmental assessment at various times. The environmental assessments did
not reveal any material environmental contamination. However, there can be no
assurance that the identification of new areas of contamination, changes in the
extent or known scope of contamination, the discovery of additional sites, or
changes in cleanup requirements would not result in significant costs to the
Company.

The Company carries comprehensive liability and all risk property
insurance ((i) fire, (ii) flood, (iii) extended coverage, (iv) “acts of terrorism”
as defined in the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 which expires in 2004
with a possible extension through 2005 and (v) rental loss insurance) with
respect to its assets.  Below is a
summary of the all risk property insurance and terrorism risk insurance for
each of the Company’s business segments:

(1) Limited as to
terrorism insurance by the sub-limit shown in the adjacent column.

In addition to the coverage above, the Company carries lesser amounts
of coverage for terrorist acts not covered by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act
of 2002.

The Company’s debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by
its properties (which are generally non-recourse to the Company), its senior
unsecured notes due 2007 and 2010 and its revolving credit agreement, contain
customary covenants requiring the Company to maintain insurance. Although the
Company believes that it has adequate insurance coverage under these agreements,
the Company may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at
reasonable costs in the future.  Further
if lenders insist on greater coverage than the Company is able to obtain, it
could adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance and/or refinance its
properties and expand its portfolio.

From time to time, the Company has disposed of substantial amounts of
real estate to third parties for which, as to certain properties, it remains
contingently liable for rent payments or mortgage indebtedness that cannot be
quantified by the Company.

There are various legal actions against the Company in the ordinary
course of business. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal
counsel, the outcome of such matters will not have a material effect on the
Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.

The Company enters into agreements for the purchase and resale of U.S.
government obligations for periods of up to one week. The obligations purchased
under these agreements are held in safekeeping in the name of the Company by
various money center banks. The Company has the right to demand additional
collateral or return of these invested funds at any time the collateral value
is less than 102% of the invested funds plus any accrued earnings thereon.  The Company had $30,310,000 and $33,393,000
of cash invested in these agreements at December 31, 2003 and 2002.


13.

Related Party Transactions

Loan and
Compensation Agreements

At December 31, 2003, the loan due from Mr. Roth in accordance with his
employment arrangement was $13,123,000 ($4,704,500 of which is shown as a
reduction in shareholders’ equity).  The
loan bears interest at 4.49% per annum (based on the applicable Federal rate)
and matures in January 2006.  The
Company also provided Mr. Roth with the right to draw up to $15,000,000 of
additional loans on a revolving basis. 
Each additional loan will bear interest, payable quarterly, at the
applicable Federal rate on the date the loan is made and will mature on the
sixth anniversary of the loan.  On
May 29, 2002, Mr. Roth replaced common shares of the Company
securing the Company’s outstanding loan to Mr. Roth with options to
purchase common shares of the Company with a value of not less than
two times the loan amount.  In
2002, as a result of the decline in the value of the options, Mr. Roth
supplemented the collateral with cash and marketable securities.

At December 31, 2003, loans due from Mr. Fascitelli, in accordance with
his employment agreement, aggregated $8,600,000.  The loans mature in December 2006 and bear interest, payable
quarterly, at a weighted average interest rate of 3.97% (based on the
applicable Federal rate).

Pursuant to Mr. Fascitelli’s 1996 employment agreement, Mr. Fascitelli
became entitled to a deferred payment consisting of $5 million in cash and a
convertible obligation payable November 30, 2001, at the Company’s option, in
either 919,540 common shares or the cash equivalent of their appreciated value,
so long as such appreciated value is not less than $20 million.  The Company delivered 919,540 shares to a
rabbi trust upon execution of the 1996 employment agreement.  The Company accounted for the stock
compensation as a variable arrangement in accordance with Plan B of EITF
No. 97-14 “Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where Amounts
Earned Are Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested” as the agreement permitted
settlement in either cash or common shares. 
Following the guidance in EITF 97-14, the Company recorded changes
in the fair value of its compensation obligation with a corresponding increase
in the liability “Officer’s Compensation Payable.”  Effective as of June 7, 2001, the payment date was deferred until
November 30, 2004.  Effective as of
December 14, 2001, the payment to Mr. Fascitelli was converted into an
obligation to deliver a fixed number of shares (919,540 shares) establishing a
measurement date for the Company’s stock compensation obligation; accordingly the
Company ceased accounting for the Rabbi Trust under Plan B of the EITF and
began Plan A accounting.  Under
Plan A, the accumulated liability representing the value of the shares on
December 14, 2001, was reclassified as a component of Shareholders’ Equity
as “Deferred compensation shares earned but not yet delivered.”  In addition, future changes in the value of
the shares are no longer recognized as additional compensation expense.  The fair value of this obligation was
$50,345,000 at December 31, 2003. 
The Company has reflected this liability as Deferred Compensation Shares
Not Yet Delivered in the Shareholders’ Equity section of the balance
sheet.  For the year ended December 31,
2001, the Company recognized approximately $4,744,000 of compensation expense
of which $2,612,000 represented the appreciation in value of the shares and
$2,132,000 represented dividends paid on the shares.

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company extended its employment
agreement with Mr. Fascitelli for a five-year period through December 31,
2006.  Pursuant to the extended
employment agreement, Mr. Fascitelli is entitled to receive a deferred payment
on December 31, 2006 of 626,566 Vornado common shares which are valued for
compensation purposes at $27,500,000 (the value of the shares on March 8, 2002,
the date the extended employment agreement was executed).  The shares are being held in a rabbi trust
for the benefit of Mr. Fascitelli and vested 100% on December 31, 2002.  The extended employment agreement does not
permit diversification, allows settlement of the deferred compensation
obligation by delivery of these shares only, and permits the deferred delivery
of these shares.  The value of these
shares was amortized ratably over the one year vesting period as compensation
expense.

Pursuant to the Company’s annual compensation review in
February 2002 with Joseph Macnow, the Company’s Chief Financial
Officer, the Compensation Committee approved a $2,000,000 loan to
Mr. Macnow, bearing interest at the applicable federal rate of 4.65% per
annum and due January 1, 2006.  The
loan, which was funded on July 23, 2002, was made in conjunction with
Mr. Macnow’s June 2002 exercise of options to purchase
225,000 shares of the Company’s common stock.  The loan is collateralized by assets with a value of not less
than two times the loan amount.  In
2002, as a result of the decline in the value of the options, Mr. Macnow
supplemented the collateral with cash and marketable securities.

One other executive officer of the Company has a loan outstanding
pursuant to an employment agreement totaling $500,000 at December 31,
2003.  The loan matures in
April 2005 and bears interest at the applicable Federal rate provided
(4.5% at December 31, 2003).


Transactions
with Affiliates and Officers and Trustees of the Company

Alexander’s

The Company owns 33.1% of Alexander’s. 
Mr. Roth and Mr. Fascitelli are Officers and Directors of
Alexander’s and the Company provides various services to Alexander’s in
accordance with management, development and leasing agreements and the Company
has made loans to Alexander’s aggregating $124,000,000 at December 31,
2003.  See Note – 5 Investments in
Partially-Owned Entities for further details.

In 2002, the Company constructed a $16.3 million community
facility and low-income residential housing development (the “30th Street
Venture”), in order to receive 163,728 square feet of transferable
development rights, generally referred to as “air rights”.  The Company donated the building to a
charitable organization.  The Company
sold 106,796 square feet of these air rights to third parties at an
average price of $120 per square foot. 
An additional 28,821 square feet of air rights was purchased by
Alexander’s at a price of $120 per square foot for use at
Alexander’s 59th Street development project (the “59th Street
Project”).  In each case, the Company
received cash in exchange for air rights. 
The Company identified third party buyers for the remaining
28,111 square feet of air rights related to the 30th Street
Venture.  These third party buyers
wanted to use the air rights for the development of two projects located in the
general area of 86th Street which was not within the required geographical
radius of the construction site nor in the same Community Board as the
low-income housing and community facility project.  The 30th Street Venture asked Alexander’s to sell
28,111 square feet of the air rights it already owned to the third party
buyers (who could use them) and the 30th Street Venture would replace them
with 28,111 square feet of air rights. 
In October 2002, the Company sold 28,111 square feet of air
rights to Alexander’s for an aggregate purchase price of $3,058,000 (an average
of $109 per square foot).  
Alexander’s then sold an equal amount of air rights to the third party
buyers for an aggregate purchase price of $3,339,000 (an average of
$119 per square foot).

Vornado Operating Company

In October 1998, Vornado Operating Company (“Vornado Operating”) was
spun off from the Company in order to own assets that the Company could not
itself own and conduct activities that the Company could not itself
conduct.  The Company granted Vornado
Operating a $75,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving
Credit Agreement”) which expires on December 31, 2004.  Borrowings under the Revolving Credit
Agreement bear interest at LIBOR plus 3%. 
The Company receives a commitment fee equal to 1% per annum on the
average daily unused portion of the facility. 
No amortization is required to be paid under the Revolving Credit
Agreement during its term.  The
Revolving Credit Agreement prohibits Vornado Operating from incurring
indebtedness to third parties (other than certain purchase money debt and
certain other exceptions) and prohibits Vornado Operating from paying
dividends.  As of December 31, 2003 and
2002, $21,989,000 was outstanding under this facility.

Vornado Operating has disclosed that there is
substantial doubt as to its ability to continue as a going concern and its
ability to discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business.  Vornado Operating has incurred losses since
its inception and in the aggregate its investments do not, and for the
foreseeable future are not expected to, generate sufficient cash flow to pay
all of its debts and expenses.  Vornado
Operating estimates that it has adequate borrowing capacity under its credit
facility with the Company to meet its cash needs until December 31, 2004.  However, the principal, interest and fees
outstanding under the line of credit come due on such date.  Further, Vornado Operating states that its
only investee, AmeriCold Logistics (“Tenant”), anticipates that its Landlord, a
partnership 60% owned by the Company and 40% owned by Crescent Real Estate Equities,
will need to restructure the leases between the Landlord and the Tenant to
provide additional cash flow to the Tenant (the Landlord has previously
restructured the leases to provide additional cash flow to the Tenant).  Management anticipates a further lease
restructuring in 2004, although it is under no obligation to do so and there
can be no assurance that it will do so. 
Vornado Operating is expected to have a source to repay the debt under
this facility from the lease restructuring or other options, although not by
its original due date.  Since January 1,
2002, the Company has not recognized interest income on the debt under this
facility.


Interstate Properties

The Company manages and leases the real estate assets of Interstate
Properties pursuant to a management agreement for which the Company receives an
annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent and certain other
commissions. The management agreement has a term of one year and is
automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on sixty
days’ notice at the end of the term. Although the management agreement was not
negotiated at arm’s length, the Company believes based upon comparable fees
charged by other real estate companies, that its terms are fair to the Company.
The Company earned $703,000, $747,000 and $1,133,000 of management fees under
the management agreement for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001.  In addition, during fiscal years
2003, 2002 and 2001, as a result of a previously existing leasing arrangement
with Alexander’s, Alexander’s paid to Interstate $587,000, $703,000 and
$522,000, respectively, for the leasing an other services actually rendered by
the Company.  Upon receipt of these
payments, Interstate promptly paid them over to the Company without retaining
any interest therein.  This arrangement
was terminated in 2003 and all payments by Alexander’s for these leasing and
other services are made directly to the Company.

Building Maintenance
Service Company (“BMS”)

On January 1, 2003, the Company acquired BMS, a company which
provides cleaning and related services principally to the Company’s Manhattan
office properties, for $13,000,000 in cash from the estate of
Bernard Mendik and certain other individuals including David R. Greenbaum,
an executive officer of the Company. 
The Company paid BMS $53,024,000, and $51,280,000, for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2001 for services rendered to the Company’s
Manhattan office properties.  Although
the terms and conditions of the contracts pursuant to which these services were
provided were not negotiated at arms length, the Company believes based upon
comparable amounts charged to other real estate companies that the terms and
conditions of the contracts were fair to the Company.

Other

On December 31, 2002, the
Company and Crescent Real Estate Equities formed a joint venture to acquire the
Carthage, Missouri and Kansas City, Kansas quarries from AmeriCold Logistics,
the tenant of the Temperature Controlled Logistics facilities for $20,000,000
in cash.  The Company contributed cash
of $8,800,000 to the joint venture representing its 44% interest.  AmeriCold Logistics used the proceeds from
the sale to repay a portion of a loan to Vornado Operating. Vornado Operating
then repaid $9,500,000 of the amount outstanding under the Company’s Revolving
Credit Facility.  On December 31, 2003,
the joint venture purchased $5,720,000 of trade receivables from AmeriCold
Logistics at a 2% discount, of which the Company’s share was $2,464,000.

The Company owns preferred securities in Capital Trust, Inc. (“Capital
Trust”) with a carrying amount of $29,259,000 at December 31, 2003.  Mr. Roth, the Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Vornado Realty Trust, is a member of the
Board of Directors of Capital Trust.

During 2002, the Company paid $147,000 for legal services to a firm in
which one of the Company’s trustees is a member.

On August 4, 2003, the Company completed the acquisition of 2101 L
Street, a 370,000 square foot office building located in Washington D.C.  The consideration for the acquisition
consisted of approximately 1.1 million newly issued Operating Partnership units
(valued at approximately $49,517,000) and the assumption of existing mortgage
debt and transaction costs totaling approximately $32,000,000.  Robert H. Smith and Robert P. Kogod,
trustees of Vornado, together with family members owned approximately 24
percent of the limited partnership that sold the building and Mr. Smith was a
general partner.  On August 5,
2003, the Company repaid the mortgage of $29,056,000.

On October 7, 2003, the Company acquired a 2.5% interest in the
planned redevelopment of Waterfront (described in Note 3) for $2,171,000, of
which the Company paid $1,545,000 in cash and issued 12,500 Operating
Partnership units valued at $626,000. 
The partnership units were issued to Mitchell N. Schear, one of the
partners in the Waterfront interest, and the President of the Company’s CESCR
division.

In connection with the Park Laurel condominium project, in 2001
the joint venture accrued and paid $5,779,000 of awards under the venture’s
incentive compensation plan.


14.

Minority Interest

The minority interest represents limited partners’, other than the
Company, interests in the Operating Partnership and are comprised of:

(1)

Class A units are redeemable at the option of the
holder for common shares of beneficial interest in Vornado, on a one-for-one
basis, or at the Company’s option for cash.

(2)

In February 2004, all of the Series E-1 units were
converted into 5,679,727 Vornado common shares.

(3)

The holders of the Series F-1 preferred units have the
right to require the Company to redeem the units for cash equal to the
liquidation preference or, at the Company’s option, by issuing a variable
number of Vornado common shares with a value equal to the liquidation
value.  On July 1, 2003, upon the
adoption of SFAS No. 150-Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity, the Company was required to
include the liquidation value of these F-1 preferred units as a liability on
the consolidated balance sheet as opposed to their prior classification as
minority interest because of the possible settlement of this obligation by
issuing a variable number of Vornado common shares.  In addition, from July 1, 2003, distributions to the holders of
the F-1 preferred units are included as a component of interest expense as
opposed to their prior classification as minority interest expense.

(4)

Convertible at the option of the holder for an equivalent
amount of the Vornado preferred shares and redeemable at the Company’s option
after the 5th anniversary of the date of issuance (ranging from December 1998
to September 2001).

(5)

The Company redeemed all of its 8.5% Series D-1
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units on November 11, 2003 at a redemption
price equal to the par value of $25.00 per unit or an aggregate of
$87.5 million.  This amount
exceeded the carrying amount by $2,100,000 representing the original issuance
costs.  Upon redemption, these issuance
costs were recorded as a reduction to earnings in arriving at net income
applicable to common shares in accordance with the July 2003 EITF clarification
of Topic D-42.

(6)

The Company redeemed all of its 8.375% Series D-2
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units on January 6, 2004 at a redemption
price equal to $50 per unit or an aggregate of $27.5 million.


15.

Income Per Share

The following table provides a reconciliation of both net income and
the number of common shares used in the computation of (i) basic income per
common share - which utilizes the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding without regard to dilutive potential common shares, and (ii)
diluted income per common share - which includes the weighted average common
shares and dilutive share equivalents. 
Potential dilutive share equivalents include the Company’s Series A
Convertible Preferred shares as well as Vornado Realty L.P.’s convertible
preferred units.


16.

Summary of Quarterly
Results (Unaudited)

The following summary represents the results of operations for each
quarter in 2003, 2002 and 2001:

(1)

The total for the year may differ from the sum of the
quarters as a result of weighting.

(2)

Includes gains on sale of real estate of $158,378.

17.

Costs of Acquisitions
and Development Not Consummated

In 2002, the Company had a 70% interest in a joint venture to develop
an office tower over the Port Authority Bus Terminal in New York
City.  Market conditions existing in
2002 resulted in the joint venture writing off $9,700,000, representing all
pre-development costs capitalized to date, of which the Company’s share is
$6,874,000.

In 2001, the Company was unable to reach a final agreement with the
Port Authority of NY & NJ to conclude a net lease of the
World Trade Center.  Accordingly,
in 2001 the Company wrote off costs of $5,223,000 primarily associated with the
World Trade Center.


18.

Segment Information

The Company has

four
business segments: Office, Retail, Merchandise Mart Properties and Temperature
Controlled Logistics.  In 2003, the
Company revised how it presents EBITDA, a measure of performance of its
segments, and has revised the disclosure for all periods presented.  EBITDA as disclosed represents “Earnings
before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization.”  This change is consistent with the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s Regulation G.

See notes on page 160.


See notes on page 160.


See notes on following page.


Notes to preceding tabular
information:

(1)

Management
considers EBITDA a supplemental measure for making decisions and assessing the
performance of its segments.  EBITDA
should not be considered a substitute for net income.  EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures
employed by other companies.

(2)

Other EBITDA is
comprised of:

(3)

Interest and debt
expense and depreciation and amortization included in the reconciliation of net
income to EBITDA reflects amounts which are netted in income from
partially-owned entities.


Item 9.

Change
in and Disagreements with Independent Auditors on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

Not applicable.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

As of the end of the period covered by this annual report on Form 10-K,
an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation
of the Company’s management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls
and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15 (e) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934).  Based on that
evaluation, the Company Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
have concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company’s disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by
this report.  In addition, no change in
our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a- 15 (f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) occurred during the fourth quarter
of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.

PART
III

Item 10.

Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information relating to trustees of the Registrant, including its audit
committee and audit committee financial expert, will be contained in a
definitive Proxy Statement involving the election of trustees under the caption
“Election of Trustees” which the Registrant will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 not later than 120 days after December 31, 2003, and
such information is incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to
Executive Officers of the Registrant, appears at page 61 of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.  Also incorporated herein
by reference is the information under the caption “Other Matters – 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” of the Proxy Statement.

The Registrant has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that
applies to, among others, Steven Roth, its principal executive officer, and
Joseph Macnow, its principal financial and accounting officer.  The Company will post the text of this code
on its website www.vno.com within the time period required by the rules and
regulations of the SEC and The New York Stock Exchange and any amendment to the
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to our senior
financial officers and our executive officers and trustees.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Information relating to executive compensation will be contained in the
Proxy Statement referred to above in Item 10, “Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant,” under the caption “Executive Compensation” and
such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management And Related Shareholder
Matters

Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in
Item 10, “Di

r

ectors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant,” under the caption “Principal
Security Holders” and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Equity compensation
plan information

The following table provides information as of December 31, 2003,
regarding the Company’s equity compensation plans.

(1)

All of the shares remaining available for future
issuance under plans approved by the security holders may be issued as
restricted stock units or performance shares.

(2)

Does not include common shares issuable in exchange
for deferred stock units pursuant to the compensation agreements described
below under the heading “Material Features of Equity Compensation Arrangements
Not Approved by Shareholders.”


Material Features of Equity Compensation
Arrangements Not Approved by Shareholders

We have
awarded deferred stock units under individual arrangements with two of our
employees.  Shareholder approval was not
required for these awards under the current or then-existing rules of the New
York Stock Exchange because the awards were made as an inducement to these
employees to enter into employment contracts with us.

We awarded
Sandeep Mathrani, our Executive Vice President-Retail Real Estate, 23,798
deferred stock units pursuant to an agreement dated as of March 4, 2002.  Under this agreement, Mr. Mathrani’s
deferred stock units vest over a three-year period and he is entitled to dividend
equivalent payments with regard to each vested unit.  On March 4, 2005, Mr. Mathrani will receive one common share for
each of his deferred stock units, subject to deferral at the election of Mr.
Mathrani in accordance with the terms of the agreement.

We awarded
Melvyn Blum 148,148 deferred stock units pursuant to an agreement dated as of
December 29, 2000.   Under this
agreement, Mr. Blum’s deferred stock units vest over a five-year period and he
is entitled to dividend equivalent payments with regard to each vested
unit.  In addition, Mr. Blum’s agreement
requires the Company to provide an effective registration statement covering
any common shares distributed to Mr. Blum. 
Pursuant to an amendment to this agreement dated as of February 13,
2003, we agreed to pay Mr. Blum an amount in cash equal to the market value of
88,889 common shares in respect of the deferred units that had vested under his
agreement as of such date.  The
amendment also provides that Mr. Blum will receive one common share in respect
of each remaining deferred stock unit on the vesting date of such unit, subject
to deferral at the election of Mr. Blum in accordance with the terms of the
agreement.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions

Information relating to certain relationships and related transactions
will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10, “Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant,” under the caption “Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions” and such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Information relating to Principal Accountant fees and services will be
contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10, “Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant” under the caption “Principal Accountant
Fees and Services” and such information is incorporated herein by reference.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)

The following documents are filed as part of this
report:

1.

The consolidated financial statements are set forth
in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The following financial statement schedules should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

Pages in
  this

Annual Report on Form 10-K

II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts-years
  ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001


III—Real
  Estate and Accumulated Depreciation as of December 31, 2003


Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are
not applicable or the information required is included in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.

The following exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are filed with this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Period
  Covered

(Date of Earliest Reported)

Items Reported

Date Filed

November 17,

Issuance of Series D-10 Preferred Shares

November 18,

December 3, 2003

Amendment of Form 10-K for the year ended

December 31,
  2002 to re-issue presentation of historical financial statements in
  accordance with SFAS No. 144

December 3, 2003


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the require

m

ents of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE
II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

December 31, 2003


VORNADO REALTY TRUST

AND
SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE III

REAL
ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31,

(Amounts in thousands)






VORNADO REALTY TRUST

AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE III

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

(AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

The following is a reconciliation of real estate assets and accumulated
depreciation:


EXHIBIT INDEX

*

Incorporated
by reference.


*

Incorporated
by reference.


*

Incorporated
by reference.


*

Incorporated
by reference.


*

Incorporated
by reference.


*              Incorporated by reference.

**           Management contract or compensatory agreement.


*

Incorporated
by reference.


*              Incorporated by reference.

**           Management contract or compensatory agreement.


*              Incorporated by reference.

**           Management contract or compensatory agreement.


*              Incorporated by reference.

**           Management contract or compensatory agreement.


*              Incorporated by reference.

**           Management contract or compensatory agreement.


183