Item 1. Business

Our Business

Omnicom is a strategic holding company and a leading global provider of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete against other global, national and regional advertising and marketing services companies, as well as technology, social media and professional services companies. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development and integration of interactive technologies and mediums, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it more complex for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to global service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing services designed to optimize their total marketing expenditure.

In addition to collaborating through our client service models, our agencies and networks collaborate across internally developed technology platforms. Annalect, our proprietary data and analytics platform, serves as the strategic resource for all of our agencies and networks to share when developing client service strategies across our virtual networks. Omni, our people-based precision marketing and insights platform, identifies and defines personalized consumer experiences at scale across creative, media and CRM, as well as other disciplines.

Driven by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient marketing activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. A comprehensive listing of our service offerings includes:advertisinginvestor relationsbrandingmarketing researchcontent marketingmedia planning and buyingcorporate social responsibility consultingmerchandising and point of salecrisis communicationsmobile marketingcustom publishingmulti-cultural marketingdata analyticsnon-profit marketingdatabase managementorganizational communicationsdigital/direct marketingpackage designdigital transformationproduct placemententertainment marketingpromotional marketingexperiential marketingpublic affairsfield marketingpublic relations










financial/corporate business-to-business advertisingretail marketinggraphic arts/digital imagingsales supporthealthcare marketing and communicationssearch engine marketinginstore designshopper marketinginteractive marketingsocial media marketingsports and event marketing

As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they have made it a practice to consolidate their business within one service provider in the pursuit of a single engagement covering all consumer touch points. We have structured our business around this trend. We believe that our key client matrix organization structure approach to collaboration and integration of our services and solutions has provided a competitive advantage to our business in the past and we expect this to continue over the medium and long term. Our key client matrix organization structure facilitates superior client management and allows for greater integration of the services required by the world’s largest brands. Our over-arching strategy is to continue to use our virtual client networks to grow our business relationships with our largest clients by serving them across our networks, disciplines and geographies. In addition, in 2018, we substantially completed the process of forming practice areas within our global network structure to bring together agencies operating in common disciplines. This action leverages existing resources and, in close coordination with our key client matrix organization, enhances the development of custom client solutions.

The various components of our business, including revenue by discipline and geographic area, and material factors that affected us in2018are discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A, of this report. None of our acquisitions or dispositions, individually or in the aggregate, in the three-year period endedDecember 31, 2018was material to our results of operations or financial position. For information about our acquisitions, see Note5to the consolidated financial statements.

Our Clients

Our clients operate in virtually every sector of the global economy. In many cases, multiple agencies or networks serve different brand, product groups or both within the same client. For example, in2018our largest client represented3.0%of revenue and was served by more than225of our agencies. Our 100 largest clients, which represent many of the world's major marketers, comprised approximately51%of revenue and were each served, on average, by more than60of our agencies.

Our Employees

AtDecember 31, 2018, we employed approximately70,400people worldwide. The skill sets of our workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and their selling proposition and to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience, whether through traditional channels or emerging digital platforms. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established tailored training and education programs for our client service professionals around this competency. See the MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs on our results of operations.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

AtJanuary 31, 2019, our executive officers were:

NamePositionAgeJohn D. WrenChairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer66Philip J. AngelastroExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer54Michael J. O’BrienSenior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary57Andrew L. CastellanetaSenior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer60Peter L. SwiecickiSenior Vice President, Finance and Controller60Jonathan B. NelsonCEO, Omnicom Digital51

Each executive officer has held his present position for at least five years, except: Mr. Wren was named Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in May 2018 and previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer from 1997 to May 2018; Mr. Angelastro was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2014 and previously served as Senior Vice President Finance and Controller from 2002 until September 2014; Mr. Castellaneta was named Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer in January 2015 and previously served as Assistant Controller from 2000 until January 2015; and Mr. Swiecicki was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller in January 2015 and previously served as Director of Business Operations from 2013 until January 2015 after holding various positions with BBDO Worldwide from 1983 until 2013. Additional information about our directors and executive officers will appear in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, byApril 10, 2019.










Available Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Documents we file with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at http://investor.omnicomgroup.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with the SEC. The information included on or available through our website is not part of this or any other report we file with the SEC. Any document that we file with the SEC is available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.



