Item 1. Business

Our Business



Omnicom, which was formed in 1986, is a strategic holding company and a leading global provider of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete against other global advertising and marketing services companies, as well as other independent companies. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development and integration of interactive technologies and mediums, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it more complex for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to global service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing services designed to make the best use of their total marketing expenditure.



Our branded networks and agencies, which operate in all major markets around the world, provide a comprehensive range of services in four fundamental disciplines: advertising, customer relationship management, or CRM, public relations and specialty communications. Although the medium used to reach a client’s target audience may differ across each of these disciplines, we develop and deliver the marketing message in a similar way by providing client-specific advertising and marketing services. Services included in these four disciplines are:

advertisinginteractive marketingbrand consultancyinvestor relationscontent marketingmarketing researchcorporate social responsibility consultingmedia planning and buyingcrisis communicationsmobile marketingcustom publishingmulti-cultural marketingdata analyticsnon-profit marketingdatabase managementorganizational communicationsdirect marketingpackage designentertainment marketingproduct placementenvironmental designpromotional marketingexperiential marketingpublic affairsfield marketingpublic relationsfinancial/corporate business-to-business advertisingreputation consultinggraphic arts/digital imagingretail marketinghealthcare communicationssearch engine marketinginstore designsocial media marketingsports and event marketing



Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our networks and agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is to deliver our services and allocate our resources based on the specific requirements of our clients. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they have tended to consolidate their business with larger, multi-disciplinary agencies or integrated groups of agencies. Accordingly, our business model requires that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual client networks that cut across internal organizational structures to execute against our clients’ specific marketing requirements. We believe that this organizational philosophy, and our ability to execute it, differentiates us from our competitors.










Our networks and agencies that comprise our virtual client networks provide us with the ability to integrate services across all disciplines and geographies, meaning that the delivery of our services can, and does, take place across agencies, networks and geographic regions simultaneously. Further, we believe that our virtual network strategy facilitates better integration of services required by the demands of the marketplace for our services. Our over-arching business strategy is to continue to use our virtual networks to grow our business relationships with our clients.



The various components of our business, including revenue by discipline and geographic area, and material factors that affected us in2015are discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A, of this report. None of the acquisitions or dispositions, individually or in the aggregate, in the three year period endedDecember 31, 2015was material to our results of operations or financial position. For information about our acquisitions, see Note4to the consolidated financial statements.

Geographic Regions



In2015, our United States operations represented approximately56%of our revenue. As discussed more fully in the Critical Accounting Policies section of the MD&A, our branded networks and agencies conduct business on a global basis and operate in the following geographic regions: The Americas, which includes North America and Latin America; EMEA, which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa; and, Asia Pacific, which includes Australia, China, India, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, Singapore and other Asian countries. The networks have regional reporting units that are responsible for the agencies in their region. Agencies within the regional reporting units serve similar clients in similar industries and in many cases the same clients and have similar economic characteristics. Accordingly, we provide financial information by geographic region in the MD&A and in Note7to the consolidated financial statements and segment information in Note7.

Our Clients



Our clients operate in virtually every industry sector of the global economy. In many cases, multiple agencies or networks serve different brand and/or product groups within the same client. For example, in2015, our largest client, which represented2.7%of revenue, was served by more than250of our agencies and our 100 largest clients, which represented approximately52%of revenue, were each served, on average, by more than50of our agencies.

Our Employees



AtDecember 31, 2015, we employed approximately74,900people. The skill sets of our workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and their selling proposition and to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established tailored training and education programs for our client service professionals around this competency. See the MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs on our results of operations.

Executive Officers of the Registrant



AtJanuary 27, 2016, our executive officers were:

NamePositionAgeBruce CrawfordChairman of the Board86John D. WrenPresident and Chief Executive Officer63Philip J. AngelastroExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer51Michael J. O’BrienSenior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary54Dennis E. HewittTreasurer71Andrew L. CastellanetaSenior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer57Peter L. SwiecickiSenior Vice President, Finance and Controller57Jonathan B. NelsonCEO, Omnicom Digital48



Each executive officer has held his present position for at least five years, except: Mr. Angelastro was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2014 and previously served as Senior Vice President Finance and Controller from 2002 until September 2014; Mr. Castellaneta was named Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer in January 2015 and previously served as Assistant Controller from 2000 until January 2015; and, Mr. Swiecicki was named










Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller in January 2015 and previously served as Director of Business Operations from 2013 until January 2015 and previously held various positions with BBDO Worldwide from 1983 until 2013.



Additional information about our directors and executive officers will appear in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed with the SEC byApril 14, 2016.



