Item 1.  Business.



Item 1(a) General Development of Business.



Ecolab was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924.  Our fiscal year is the calendar year ending December 31.



In 2012, we took the following actions to continue to build our business:



·Throughout the year, we made significant progress in integrating Nalco Holding Company (“Nalco”), which we acquired by means of a merger in December 2011.



·In January 2012, we announced that we are undertaking a restructuring and other cost-saving actions in connection with the integration of the Nalco business, which includes a reduction of our global workforce and the streamlining of our supply chain footprint.  We expect total charges relating to these actions to be approximately $180 million and this restructuring plan to be substantially completed by the end of 2013.



·Also in January, we redeemed $1.7 billion of Nalco outstanding senior notes.










·In August, we announced the opening of a manufacturing plant and distribution center in Taicang, China, as part of an expanding Company presence within the country. The facility is our third-largest in the world and our largest in the Asia Pacific region, capable of producing 150,000 tons of product annually.



·Also in August, we issued $500 million of 1.00% senior notes due in 2015 in order to repay a portion of our outstanding commercial paper borrowings and for general corporate purposes.



·In September, we announced an agreement to purchase Quimiproductos, a Mexico-based producer and supplier of cleaning, sanitizing and water treatment products and services to breweries and beverage companies. This acquisition was completed in January of 2013.  With annual sales of approximately $43 million, Quimiproductos will help strengthen our core product offerings and improve service capabilities to our beverage processing customers in the fast growing Latin America region.



·In October, we announced an agreement to acquire Champion Technologies, a Houston-based global energy specialty products and services company, to further strengthen our position in the fast-growing energy services market. Champion’s 2012 sales were approximately $1.4 billion. The acquisition remains subject to various closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.



·In December we issued $500 million of 1.45% senior notes due in 2017 in order to finance a portion of the pending Champion acquisition and for general corporate purposes.



·In December, we completed the sale of our Vehicle Care division to Zep Inc. Vehicle Care had sales of approximately $65 million in 2011.  This sale enables us to sharpen our strategic focus on our core business areas.



Item 1(b) Financial Information About Operating Segments.



The financial information about reportable segments appearing under the heading “Operating Segments and Geographic Information” in Note 16, located on pages 58 to 60 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 1(c) Narrative Description of Business.



General:With 2012 world-wide sales of $11.8 billion, we are the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that provide and protect clean water, safe food, abundant energy and healthy environments.  We develop and market premium programs, products and services for the hospitality, foodservice, healthcare, industrial and energy markets in approximately 170 countries.  Our cleaning and sanitizing programs and products, pest elimination services, and equipment maintenance and repair services support customers in the foodservice, food and beverage processing, hospitality, healthcare, government and education, retail, textile care and commercial facilities management sectors.  Our chemicals and technologies are also used in water treatment, pollution control, energy conservation, oil production and refining, steelmaking, papermaking, mining and other industrial processes.



The following description of our business is based upon six reportable segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012, as incorporated by reference into Part II of this Form 10-K.  We aggregated our 14 operating units into the following six reportable segments: U.S. Cleaning & Sanitizing; U.S. Other Services; International Cleaning, Sanitizing & Other Services; Global Water; Global Paper; and Global Energy.










We pursue a “Circle the Customer — Circle the Globe” strategy by providing an array of programs, products and services which serve our customer base, and do so on a global basis to meet the needs of our customers’ various operations around the world.  Through this strategy and our varied product and service mix, one customer may utilize the offerings of several of our reportable segments.



U.S. Cleaning & Sanitizing Segment



Our U.S. Cleaning & Sanitizing segment is comprised of five operating units which provide cleaning and sanitizing products and programs to United States markets.



Institutional: Our Institutional Division sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment (“warewashing”), for on premise laundries (typically used by hotel and healthcare customers) and for general housekeeping functions, as well as food safety products and equipment, water filters, dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging, educational and healthcare industries.  The Institutional Division also provides pool and spa treatment programs for hospitality and other commercial customers, as well as a broad range of janitorial cleaning and floor care products and programs to customers in hospitality, healthcare and commercial facilities.  The Institutional Division develops various chemical dispensing systems which are used by our customers to efficiently and safely dispense our cleaners and sanitizers.  In addition, the Institutional Division markets a lease program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and sanitizers, including full machine maintenance.



Our Institutional Division sells its products and programs primarily through Company-employed field sales personnel.  Corporate account sales personnel establish relationships and negotiate contracts with larger multi-unit or “chain” customers.  We also utilize independent, third-party foodservice, broad-line and janitorial distributors to provide logistics to end customers for accounts that prefer to purchase through these distributors.  Many of these distributors also participate in marketing our product and service offerings to the end customers.  Through our Company-employed field sales and service personnel, we generally provide the same customer support to end-use customers supplied by these distributors as we do to direct customers.



We believe that we are the leading supplier of chemical warewashing products and programs to institutions in the United States.



Food & Beverage:  Our Food & Beverage Division addresses cleaning and sanitation at the beginning of the food chain to facilitate the processing of products for human consumption.  The Food & Beverage Division provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants, dairy farms, breweries, soft-drink bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other food processors.  The Food & Beverage Division is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during processing in order to reduce microbial contamination.  The Food & Beverage Division also designs, engineers and installs CIP (“clean-in-place”) process control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base.  Products for use on farms are sold through dealers and independent, third-party distributors, while products for use in processing facilities are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees.



We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm, food, meat and poultry, and beverage/brewery processor industries in the United States.



Kay:  Our Kay business unit supplies cleaning and sanitizing chemical products and related items primarily to regional, national and international quick service restaurant (QSR) chains and to regional and national food retailers (i.e., supermarkets and grocery stores).  Its products include specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted cleaning tools and equipment which are primarily sold under the “Kay” and “Ecolab” brand names.  Kay’s cleaning and sanitation programs are customized to meet the needs of the market segments it serves and are designed to










provide highly effective cleaning performance, promote food safety, reduce labor costs and enhance user and guest safety.  A number of product dispensing options are available for products in the core product range.  Kay supports its product sales with employee training programs and technical support designed to meet the special needs of its customers.



Both Kay’s QSR business and its food retail business utilize a corporate account sales force which establishes relationships and negotiates contracts with customers at the corporate headquarters and regional office levels (and, in the QSR market segment, at the franchisee level) and a field sales force which provides program support at the individual restaurant or store level.  Customers in the QSR market segment are primarily supplied through third party distributors while most food retail customers utilize their own distribution networks.



We believe that Kay is the leading supplier of chemical cleaning and sanitizing products to the QSR market segment and a leading supplier of chemical cleaning and sanitizing products to the food retail market segment in the United States.  While Kay’s customer base has grown over the years, Kay’s business remains largely dependent upon a limited number of major QSR chains and franchisees and large food retail customers.



Healthcare: Our Healthcare Division provides infection prevention and other healthcare related offerings to acute care hospitals, surgery centers, dental offices and veterinary clinics.  The Healthcare Division’s proprietary infection prevention products (hand hygiene, hard surface disinfectants, instrument cleaners, patient drapes, fluid control products, equipment drapes and surgical fluid, warming and cooling systems) are sold primarily under the “Ecolab”, “Microtek” and “OR Solutions” brand names to various departments within the acute care environment (Infection Control, Environmental Services, Central Sterile and Operating Room).  The Healthcare Division’s Microtek Medical business is a leader in niche branded specialty surgical drapes and fluid control products.  The Healthcare Division’s OR Solutions business is a leading developer and marketer of surgical fluid warming and cooling systems.  The Healthcare Division sells its products and programs primarily through Company-employed field sales personnel but also sells through healthcare distributors.



Textile Care:  Our Textile Care Division provides products and services that manage the entire wash process through custom-designed programs, premium products, dispensing equipment, water and energy management, and real-time data management for large-scale, complex commercial operations including uniform rental, hospitality, linen rental and healthcare laundries.  The Textile Care Division’s programs are designed to meet our customers’ needs for exceptional cleaning, while extending the useful life of linen and reducing the customers’ overall operating cost. Products and programs are marketed primarily through Company-employed field sales personnel and, to a lesser extent, through distributors.



Vehicle Care:Prior to its sale on December 1, 2012, the Vehicle Care Division provided vehicle appearance products which included soaps, polishes, sealants, wheel and tire treatments and air fresheners.  The Vehicle Care Division sold to vehicle rental, fleet and consumer car wash and detail operations using brands that include Blue CoralÒ, Black MagicÒand Rain-XÒ.



U.S. Other Services Segment



Our U.S. Other Services segment is comprised of two operating units:  Pest Elimination and Equipment Care (formerly GCS Service).  In general, these businesses provide service which can augment or extend our product offerings to our business customers as a part of our “Circle the Customer” approach and, in particular, by enhancing our food safety capabilities.










Pest Elimination:  Our Pest Elimination Division provides services designed to detect, eliminate and prevent pests, such as rodents and insects, in restaurants, food and beverage processors, educational and healthcare facilities, hotels, quick service restaurant and grocery operations and other institutional and commercial customers.  The services of the Pest Elimination Division are sold and performed by Company-employed field sales and service personnel.  In addition, through our EcoSure Food Safety Management business, we provide customized on-site evaluations, training and quality assurance services to foodservice operations.



Equipment Care:  Our Equipment Care Division provides equipment repair, maintenance and preventive maintenance services for the commercial food service industry.  Repair services are offered for in-warranty repair, acting as the manufacturer’s authorized service agent, as well as after warranty repair. In addition, Equipment Care operates as a parts distributor to repair service companies and end-use customers.



International Cleaning, Sanitizing & Other Services Segment



Our International Cleaning, Sanitizing & Other Services segment directly operates in approximately 75 countries outside of the United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in the case of Venezuela, through a joint venture with a local partner.  In other countries, selected products are sold by our export operations to distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume of those sales is not significant in terms of our overall revenues.  Our largest International Cleaning, Sanitizing & Other Services operations are located in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Canada, with smaller operations in Africa and the Middle East.



In general, our International Cleaning, Sanitizing & Other Services businesses are similar to those conducted in the United States but are managed on a geographic basis.  The businesses which are similar to the United States’ Institutional and Food & Beverage businesses are the largest businesses in our International operations.  They are conducted in virtually all of our International locations and, compared to the United States, constitute a larger portion of the overall business.  Healthcare and Textile Care are also meaningful businesses in our International operations, particularly in Europe. Kay has sales in a number of International locations.  A significant portion of Kay’s international sales are to international units of United States-based quick service restaurant chains.  Consequently, a substantial portion of Kay’s international sales are made either to domestic or internationally-located third-party distributors who serve these chains.



Our Pest Elimination business continues to expand its geographic coverage.  We operate this business in various countries in Asia Pacific, Western Europe, Latin America and South Africa, with the largest operations in France, the United Kingdom and Brazil.



Our other cleaning and sanitizing businesses are conducted less extensively internationally.  However, in general, most of the principal businesses conducted in the United States are also operated in Canada.



Our International Cleaning, Sanitizing & Other Services businesses are subject to the usual risks of foreign operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws, international business laws and regulations, tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions abroad.  The profitability of our International operations has historically been lower than the profitability of our businesses in the United States, due to (i) the additional cost of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions, (ii) higher costs of importing certain raw materials and finished goods in some regions and (iii) the smaller scale of International operations where certain operating locations are smaller in size.  Proportionately larger investments in sales and technical support are also necessary in order to facilitate the growth of our International operations.










Global Water Segment



Our Global Water segment serves customers across industrial and institutional markets, with the exception of the pulp and paper industry which is serviced by our Global Paper business and the energy industries which are served by our Global Energy business.  Within Global Water, we provide products and programs for water treatment and process applications aimed at combining environmental benefits with economic gains for our customers.  Typically, water savings, energy savings, maintenance and capital expenditure avoidance are among the primary sources of value to our customers, with product quality and production enhancement improvements also providing a key differentiating feature for many of our offerings.



Our Global Water offerings are organized according to the customer end-markets we serve so we can address the unique drivers faced by each market.  We serve customers in the aerospace, chemical, pharmaceutical, mining and primary metals, power, food and beverage and medium and light manufacturing, as well as institutional clients such as hospitals, universities, commercial buildings and hotels.  Our on-site experts, industry technical consultants and researchers develop appropriate solutions for a broad range of customer requirements, such as single process optimization, system-wide program implementation, troubleshooting or increasing efficiencies.  As a part of our chemicals program we provide numerous plant, process and application audits and surveys in water treatment and customer production.  In addition, we offer consulting for all water use and discharge areas and make recommendations for improvements, cost reductions or efficiency improvements through our Advanced Recycle Technology programs.  Our offerings are sold primarily by our field sales employees.



We believe that we have the leading market position among suppliers of products and programs for chemical treatment applications for industrial water treatment.



The following descriptions include water treatment applications used across all of our segments.



Cooling Water Applications:Our cooling water treatment programs are designed to control the main problems associated with cooling water systems — corrosion, scale and microbial fouling and contamination — in open recirculating, once-through and closed systems.  Our 3D TRASAR®technology for cooling water is an automated system for simultaneous control of corrosion, scale and microbial fouling and contamination.



Boiler Water Applications:We provide integrated chemical solutions, process improvements and mechanical component modifications to optimize boiler performance and control corrosion and scale build-up.



Raw Water/Potable Water Preparation:Our programs assist the production of potable water or water for plant processes by optimizing the performance of treatment chemicals and equipment in order to minimize costs and maximize return on investment.



Wastewater Applications:Our wastewater products and programs focus on improving overall plant economics, addressing compliance issues, optimizing equipment efficiency and improving operator capabilities and effectiveness.  Our offerings combine practical engineering approaches and hands-on knowledge of system operations to design, build, operate and/or maintain the optimal reuse solution for each application and customer.










Global Paper Segment



Our Global Paper segment provides water and process applications for the pulp and paper industries.Our Global Paper segment offers a comprehensive portfolio of programs that are used in all principal steps of the papermaking process and across all grades of paper, including graphic grades, board and packaging, and tissue and towel.  We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of water treatment products and process aids to the pulp and papermaking industry. Our offerings are sold primarily by our field sales employees.



Global Paper provides its customers the same types of products and programs for water treatment and wastewater treatment as those offered by Global Water.  In addition, Global Paper offers the following specialty applications.



Pulp Applications:Our programs maximize process efficiency and increase pulp cleanliness and brightness in bleaching operations, as well as predict and monitor scaling potential utilizing on-line monitoring to design effective treatment programs and avoid costly failures.



Paper Applications:Our paper process applications focus on the key business drivers that are critical to the success of our customers’ businesses.  We integrate the entire papermaking process through mechanical, operational and chemical means to concentrate specifically on what our customers need to succeed in their market segments and improve their overall operational efficiency.  Advanced sensing, monitoring and automation combine with innovative chemistries and detailed process knowledge to provide a broad range of customer solutions.



Global Energy Segment



Our Global Energy segment provides on-site, technology-driven solutions to the global drilling, oil and gas production, refining, and petrochemical industries.  Our customers include nearly all of the largest publicly traded oil companies.  Our Global Energy offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees.  The Global Energy segment is divided into an Upstream group composed of our Adomite, Oilfield Chemicals and Enhanced Oil Recovery businesses and a Downstream refinery and petrochemical processing business.  We believe that our Global Energy segment enjoys a leading market position in the markets it serves.



Well Stimulation and Completion:Our Adomite group offers a range of product solutions specifically designed to enhance performance even in the most severe environments.  We supply chemicals for the cementing, drilling, fracturing and acidizing phases of well drilling and stimulation.  Our integrated approach to product development combines marketing and research efforts supported with process simulation, pilot plants and full-scale manufacturing capabilities.  Importantly, we are committed to the development of sustainable solutions to meet the demanding environmental requirements in the industry.



Oilfield Applications:Our Oilfield Chemicals business provides solutions to the oil and gas production sector.  We have expertise in crude oil and natural gas production, pipeline gathering/transmission systems, gas processing, and heavy oil and bitumen upgrading.  Our priority is to safely manage the critical challenges facing today’s oil and gas producers throughout the lifecycle of their assets.  Starting with the design/capital investment phase to asset decommission, a lifecycle approach to chemical solutions and offerings help our customers minimize risk, achieve their production targets and maximize profitability.



Our Asset Integrity team uses processes and technologies to help producers mitigate corrosion. We work with our customers to utilize state-of-the-art laboratory methods to design best-in-class chemistries to mitigate corrosion of the equipment, and we monitor oil and gas systems to track the success of corrosion mitigation programs.  We also deploy the latest molecular monitoring tools to measure and control microbiological influenced corrosion and provide environmentally friendly chemistries worldwide.












Enhanced Oil Recovery:We provide custom-engineered chemical solutions that increase production of crude oil and gas from existing fields, which are marketed primarily through our TIORCO® joint venture with Stepan Company.  TIORCO integrates enhanced oil recovery (“EOR”) processes by leveraging our polymer and reservoir expertise and Stepan’s global surfactant technology and manufacturing capabilities.  Our offerings include reservoir screening, target validation, laboratory and reservoir simulation work, secondary flood optimization, tertiary recovery flood design and implementation and, when needed, a produced water treatment solution.



Downstream Refining Applications:Our industry-focused sales engineers provide products and programs for process and water treatment applications specific to the petroleum refining and fuels industry, enabling our customers to profitably refine and upgrade hydrocarbons.  Our heavy oil upgrading programs minimize operation costs and mitigate fouling, corrosion, foaming and the effects of heavy metals when refining opportunity crudes.



Clean fuels regulations require drastic reduction in the level of sulfur allowed in fuels. Our H2S Scavengers, such as the SULFA-CHECK®system, help our customers to comply with regulatory standards.  We offer an entire line of fuel additives, including corrosion inhibitors, to protect engine fuel systems and pre-market underground storage tanks and piping.  In addition, we offer fuel stabilizers, pour point depressants, cetane improvers, detergents and antioxidants for home heating oil and premium diesel and gasoline packages.



Downstream Chemical Processing Applications:We work with customers globally to overcome the increasing challenges associated with capacity increases, plant revamps and constantly changing feedstocks.  Our customized process and water treatment programs are delivered by onsite technical experts who are focused on providing improved system reliability, reduced total cost of operations, environmental compliance, sustainability in the form of energy and water savings and reduced carbon emissions.



Water Treatment Applications:We provide total water and wastewater management solutions specific to customers’ refining and chemical processing needs including boiler treatment, cooling water treatment and wastewater treatment.  See “Global Water Segment.”



Additional Information



Competition










Our businesses in our Global Water, Global Paper and Global Energy segments compete on the basis of their demonstrated value, technical expertise, chemical formulations, customer support, detection equipment, monitoring services, and dosing and metering equipment.  In general, some of the markets in which these businesses compete are led by a few large companies, with the rest of the market served by smaller entities focusing on more limited geographic regions.



With respect to Global Water, the market for water treatment chemicals is highly fragmented, but is led by Ecolab.  Four other companies are present in at least two of the major geographic regions of the globe, with one present in all regions.  These global or regional service providers tend to focus either on a limited geographic region or a smaller subset of products and services.  The remainder of the market is comprised of local competitors.  Collectively, local players have the largest share of the market, but are individually much smaller and tend to focus on servicing local businesses typically requiring less sophisticated applications.



With respect to our Global Paper business, the market for specialty and water treatment chemicals used in the pulp and paper industry is fragmented.  We are one of the leading suppliers with four other multi-nationals having significant presence.  The remainder of the market is comprised of smaller, regional participants.



The largest participants in portions of the Energy Services sector are Ecolab’s Global Energy business and three other multi-nationals.  The remainder of the market consists of smaller, regional niche companies focused on limited geographic areas.



Sales: Products, systems and services are primarily marketed in domestic and international markets by Company-trained field sales personnel who also advise and assist our customers in the proper and efficient use of the products and systems in order to meet a full range of cleaning and sanitation, water treatment and process chemistry needs.  Independent, third-party distributors are utilized in several markets, as described in the business unit descriptions found under the discussion of the six reportable segments above.



Number of Employees: We had approximately 40,860 employees as of December 31, 2012.



Customers and Classes of Products:  We believe that our business is not materially dependent upon a single customer.  Additionally, although we have a diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our 2012 consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our financial position.  No material part of our business is subject to renegotiation or termination at the election of a governmental unit.



We sold two classes of products within the U. S. Cleaning & Sanitizing and International Cleaning, Sanitizing & Other Services segments which comprised 10% or more of consolidated net sales in any of the last three years.  Sales of warewashing products were approximately 11% of consolidated 2012 net sales, and approximately 18% in 2011 and approximately 19% in 2010.  In addition, through our Institutional and Textile Care businesses around the world, we sell laundry products to a broad range of laundry customers.  Sales of laundry products were approximately 10% of consolidated net sales in 2011 and 2010.



Patents and Trademarks:  We own and license a number of patents, trademarks and other intellectual property.  While we have an active program to protect our intellectual property by filing for patents or trademarks, and pursuing legal action, when appropriate, to prevent infringement, we do not believe that our overall business is materially dependent on any individual patent or trademark except patents related to our TRASAR and 3D TRASAR technology, which are material to our Global Water and Global Paper segments, and trademarks related to Ecolab, Nalco Company and 3D TRASAR.  The Ecolab trademarks are material to the U.S. Cleaning & Sanitizing, U.S. Other Services and International Cleaning, Sanitizing & Other Services segments and the Nalco trademarks are material to the Global Water, Global Paper and Global Energy










segments.  The 3D TRASAR trademarks predominantly relate to our Global Water and Global Paper segments.  U.S. and foreign patents protect aspects of our key TRASAR and 3D TRASAR technology until at least 2024. The Ecolab, Nalco Company and 3D TRASAR trademarks are registered or applied for in all of our key markets, and we anticipate maintaining them indefinitely.



Seasonality:  We experience variability in our quarterly operating results due to seasonal sales volume and business mix fluctuations in our operating segments.  Note 17, entitled “Quarterly Financial Data” located on page 61 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.



Working Capital:  We have invested in the past, and will continue to invest in the future, in merchandising and customer equipment consisting primarily of systems used by customers to dispense our products as well as to monitor water systems.  Otherwise, we have no unusual working capital requirements.



Manufacturing and Distribution:  We manufacture most of our products and related equipment in Company-operated manufacturing facilities. Some products are also produced for us by third-party contract manufacturers.  Other products and equipment are purchased from third-party suppliers.  Additional information on product/equipment sourcing is found in the segment discussions above and additional information on our manufacturing facilities is located beginning at page 27 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Properties.”



Deliveries to customers are made from our manufacturing plants and a network of distribution centers and third-party logistics service providers.  We use common carriers, our own delivery vehicles, and distributors for transport.  Additional information on our plant and distribution facilities is located beginning at page 27 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Properties.”



Raw Materials:  Raw materials purchased for use in manufacturing our products are inorganic chemicals, including alkalis, acids, biocides, phosphonates, phosphorous materials, silicates and salts; and organic chemicals, including acids, amines, fatty acids, surfactants, solvents, monomers and polymers.  Our Healthcare Division purchases plastic films and parts to manufacture medical devices that serve the surgical and infection prevention markets.  Pesticides used by our Pest Elimination Division are purchased as finished products under contract or purchase order from the producers or their distributors.  We also purchase packaging materials for our manufactured products and components for our specialized cleaning equipment and systems.  We purchase more than 8,000 raw materials, with the largest single raw material representing less than 3% of raw material purchases.  Our raw materials, with the exception of a few specialized chemicals which we manufacture, are generally purchased on an annual contract basis and are ordinarily available in adequate quantities from a diverse group of suppliers globally.  When practical, global sourcing is used so that purchasing or production locations can be shifted to control product costs at globally competitive levels.



Research and Development:  Our research and development program consists principally of devising and testing new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the efficiency of existing ones, improving service program content, evaluating the environmental compatibility of products and technical support. Key disciplines include analytical and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process and packaging engineering, remote monitoring engineering and product dispensing technology.  Substantially all of our principal products have been developed by our research, development and engineering personnel. At times, technology has also been licensed from third parties to develop offerings.



We believe that continued research and development activities are critical to maintaining our leadership position within the industry and will provide us with a competitive advantage as we seek additional business with new and existing customers.



Note 13, entitled “Research Expenditures” located on page 50 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.










Joint Ventures:Over time, certain of our businesses have entered into general partnerships or joint ventures for limited scope business opportunities.  In 2004, weentered into a joint venture with Katayama Chemical, Inc. for the marketing and sale of our water treatment and process chemicals in Japan. In 2008 we formed a joint venture with Stepan Company operating under the TIORCO brand to globally market custom-engineered chemical solutions for increased production of crude oil and gas from existing fields.  In 2010, we formed new joint ventures in South Africa with a subsidiary of Protea Chemicals and in Russia with a subsidiary of Lukoil. We also have long-standing partnerships in Saudi Arabia (Global Water and Global Energy), Spain (Global Water) and Venezuela (International Cleaning, Sanitizing & Other Services), and we also maintain joint ventures in jurisdictions requiring local participation in our business.  We will continue to evaluate the potential for partnerships and joint ventures that can assist us in increasing our geographic, technological and product reach.



Environmental and Regulatory Considerations:  Our businesses are subject to various legislative enactments and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and public health.  While we cooperate with governmental authorities and take commercially practicable measures to meet regulatory requirements and avoid or limit environmental effects, some risks are inherent in our businesses.  Among the risks are costs associated with transporting and managing hazardous materials and waste disposal and plant site clean-up, fines and penalties if we are found to be in violation of law, as well as modifications, disruptions or discontinuation of certain operations or types of operations including product recalls and reformulations.  Similarly, the need for certain of our products and services is dependent upon or might be limited by governmental laws and regulations.  Changes in such laws and regulations, including among others, air pollution regulations and regulations relating to oil and gas production (including those related to hydraulic fracturing), could impact the sales of some of our products or services.  In addition to an increase in costs of manufacturing and delivering products, a change in production regulations or product regulations could result in interruptions to our business and potentially cause economic or consequential losses should we be unable to meet the demands of our customers for products.



Additionally, although we are not currently aware of any such circumstances, there can be no assurance that future legislation or enforcement policies will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  Environmental and regulatory matters most significant to us are discussed below.



Ingredient Legislation










TSCA:Re-authorization of the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) and an update of the chemicals on the TSCA Inventory (the so-called “reset” of the TSCA Inventory) are again being discussed in the U.S. Congress.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) also is more aggressively using the existing TSCA tools to manage chemicals of concern.  We anticipate that compliance with new requirements under TSCA could be similar to the costs associated with REACH in the European Union, which is discussed below.



REACH:  The European Union has enacted a regulatory framework for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACH”).  It established a new European Chemicals Agency (“ECHA”) in Helsinki, Finland, which is responsible for evaluating data to determine hazards and risks and to manage this program for authorizing chemicals for sale and distribution in Europe.  We have met the pre-registration requirements of REACH, the 2010 registration deadline, and are on track to meet the upcoming registration deadlines and requirements in 2013.  To help manage this new program, we are simplifying our product line and working with chemical suppliers to comply with registration requirements.  Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one reporting period or on our financial position.



GHS:In 2003, the United Nations issued a standard on hazard communication and labeling of chemical products known as the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (“GHS”). GHS is designed to facilitate international trade and increase safe handling and use of hazardous chemicals through a worldwide system that classifies chemicals based on their intrinsic hazards and communicates information about those hazards through standardized product labels and safety data sheets (“SDSs”). Most countries in which we operate will adopt GHS-related legislation, and numerous countries already have done so. The primary cost of compliance revolves around reclassifying products and revising SDSs and product labels, and we are working toward a phased-in approach to mitigate the costs of GHS implementation.  Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one reporting period or on our financial position.



Pesticide and Biocide Legislation










In Europe, the Biocidal Product Directive and the more recent Biocidal Products Regulation established a program to evaluate and authorize marketing of biocidal active substances and products. We are working with suppliers and industry groups to manage these requirements and have met the first relevant deadline of the program by the timely submission of dossiers for active substances. Anticipated registration costs, which will be incurred through the multi-year phase-in period, will be significant; however, these costs are not expected to significantly affect our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one reporting period or our financial position.



In addition, our Pest Elimination Division applies restricted-use pesticides that it generally purchases from third parties. That Division must comply with certain standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the licensing of employees who apply such pesticides. Such regulations are enforced primarily by the states or local jurisdictions in conformity with federal regulations. We have not experienced material difficulties in complying with these requirements.



FDA Antimicrobial Product Requirements: Various laws and regulations have been enacted by federal, state, local and foreign jurisdictions regulating certain products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and foods.  In the United States, these requirements generally are administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). However, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and EPA also may share in regulatory jurisdiction of antimicrobials applied to food. The FDA codifies “Good Manufacturing Practices” for these products in order to ensure product quality, safety and effectiveness.  The FDA also has been expanding requirements applicable to such products, including proposing regulations in a Tentative Final Monograph for Healthcare Antiseptic Drug Products dated June 17, 1994, which may impose additional requirements associated with antimicrobial hand care products and associated costs when finalized by the FDA. To date, such requirements have not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Medical Device and Drug Product Requirements










Other Environmental Legislation; Capital Expenditures: Our manufacturing plants are subject to federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations relating to discharge of hazardous substances into the environment and to the transportation, handling and disposal of such substances. The primary federal statutes that apply to our activities in the United States are the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We are also subject to the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which imposes certain reporting requirements as to emissions of hazardous substances into the air, land and water. Similar legal requirements apply to Ecolab’s facilities globally.  We make capital investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, to ensure employee safety and to carry out our announced environmental sustainability principles. To date, such expenditures have not had a significant adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our capital expenditures for environmental, health and safety projects worldwide were approximately $20 million in 2012 and $10 million in 2011.  Approximately $18 million has been budgeted globally for projects in 2013.



Climate Change



Environmental Remediation and Proceedings: Along with numerous other potentially responsible parties (“PRP”), we are currently involved with waste disposal site clean-up activities imposed by the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) or state equivalents at 33 sites in the United States. Additionally, we have similar liability at four sites outside the United States. In general, under CERCLA, we and each other PRP that actually contributed hazardous substances to a Superfund site are jointly and severally liable for the costs associated with cleaning up the site. Customarily, the PRPs will work with the EPA to agree and implement a plan for site remediation.










Based on an analysis of our experience with such environmental proceedings, our estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited on the sites referred to in the preceding paragraph, and our estimate of the contribution to be made by other PRPs which we believe have the financial ability to pay their shares, we have accrued our best estimate of our probable future costs relating to such known sites. Unasserted claims are not reflected in the accrual. In establishing accruals, potential insurance reimbursements are not included. The accrual is not discounted. It is not feasible to predict when the amounts accrued will be paid due to the uncertainties inherent in the environmental remediation and associated regulatory processes.



We have also been named as a defendant in lawsuits where our products have not caused injuries, but the claimants wish to be monitored for potential future injuries. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any such tort claims or the involvement we or our products might have in such matters in the future and there can be no assurance that the discovery of previously unknown conditions will not require significant expenditures. In each of these chemical exposure cases, our insurance carriers have accepted the claims on our behalf (with or without reservation) and our financial exposure should be limited to the amount of our deductible; however, we cannot predict the number of claims that we may have to defend in the future and we may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance.



We have also been named as a defendant in a number of lawsuits alleging personal injury due to exposure to hazardous substances, including multi-party lawsuits alleging personal injury in connection with our products and services.  While we do not believe that any of these suits will be material to us based upon present information, there can be no assurance that these environmental matters could not have, either individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Our worldwide net expenditures for contamination remediation were approximately $2.4 million in 2012 and $1 million in 2011.  Our worldwide accruals at December 31, 2012 for probable future remediation expenditures, excluding potential insurance reimbursements, totaled approximately $10 million. We review our exposure for contamination remediation costs periodically and our accruals are adjusted as considered appropriate. While the final resolution of these issues could result in costs below or above current accruals and, therefore, have an impact on our consolidated financial results in a future reporting period, we believe the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Disclosure of Certain Activities Related to Iran



Ecolab has had a long-standing policy and practice of prohibiting all activity in countries subject to comprehensive U.S. economic sanctions, including Iran (the “Sanctioned Countries”).  This policy was in place prior to passage of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, pursuant to which all entities owned or controlled by U.S. companies are prohibited from engaging in activities in Iran.  Effective December 1, 2011, Ecolab acquired Nalco, which at the time of the acquisition had foreign subsidiaries that engaged in sales in Iran.  Shortly following the closing of the Nalco acquisition, Ecolab instructed all Nalco subsidiaries to cease all activities in the Sanctioned Countries by March 31, 2012.  Consistent with Ecolab’s directive and policy, Nalco’s sales in Iran ceased, and all in-country activity was terminated.  The limited activities in Iran described below were made within the context of the process of winding down the business.



First, Nalco’s foreign subsidiaries received payments from entities owned or controlled by the Government of Iran in connection with product sold in 2011 before Ecolab acquired Nalco.  Non-U.S. subsidiaries of Nalco received the following payments in 2012:










·On January 26, 2012, the Mazandaran Wood and Paper Industries Company, an entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, made a payment of approximately €36,500 (approximately $49,800).  The payment related to a 2011 sale of Nalco’s water processing products and net profit before taxes associated with this sale is estimated to be between $10,000 and $14,900.



·On January 31, 2012, the Iranian Offshore Oil Company, an entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, made a payment of approximately 53,800 AED (approximately $14,600).  The payment related to a 2011 sale of Nalco’s water processing products and the net profit before taxes associated with this sale is estimated to be between $2,900 and $4,400.



·On February 16, 2012 the Aryasasol Polymer Company, an entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, made a payment of €96,800 (approximately $132,000).  The payment related to a 2011 sale of Nalco’s water processing products and the net profit before taxes associated with this sale is estimated to be between $26,400 and $39,600.



·On March 27, 2012, Pars Lian, a distributor working in Iran that likely re-sold Nalco products to an entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran, made a payment of approximately 319,300 AED (approximately $86,600).  The payment related to a 2011 sale of Nalco’s energy services products and the net profit before taxes associated with this sale is estimated to be between $26,000 and $34,700.



In addition, one Nalco non-U.S. subsidiary made various payments in 2012 to entities that it knows or has reason to believe are owned or controlled by the Government of Iran in connection with the costs associated with the closing of its former branch in Iran and the branch’s operation costs from January to March 2012.  This branch sold water processing products and services.  Nalco’s foreign subsidiary held accounts with two banks that are owned or controlled by the Government of Iran and which are also designated under the Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations and the Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation Sanctions Regulations (Bank Tejerat and Bank Melli) and these payments were made through these two banks before the accounts were closed in April 2012.  The payments included various taxes, bank charges, fuel expenses, postage, telecommunications, and utilities, and totaled approximately $30,000.



Item 1(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas.



The financial information about geographic areas appearing under the heading “Operating Segments and Geographic Information” in Note 16, located on pages 58 to 60 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 1(e) Available Information.



Our Internet address is www.ecolab.com. Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are available free of charge on our website www.ecolab.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



In addition, the following governance materials are available on our web site at www.ecolab.com/investors/corporate-governance: (i) charters of the Audit, Compensation, Finance, Governance and Safety, Health and Environment Committees of our Board of Directors; (ii) our Board’s Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) our Code of Conduct.










Executive Officers of the Registrant.



The persons listed in the following table are our current executive officers. Officers are elected annually. There is no family relationship among any of the directors or executive officers, and except as otherwise noted, no executive officer has been involved during the past ten years in any legal proceedings described in applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.



NameAgeOfficePositions Held SinceJan. 1, 2008



Douglas   M. Baker, Jr.54Chairman   of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerDec. 2011 - Present



Chairman   of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerJan. 2008 — Nov. 2011



Christophe   Beck45Executive   Vice President and President — RegionsOct. 2012 - Present



Executive   Vice President — Global IntegrationDec. 2011 — Sep.2012



Executive   Vice President — InstitutionalMay 2009 — Nov. 2011



Senior   Vice President and General Manager — Institutional North America Full Service   RestaurantsJan. 2008 — Apr. 2009



Larry   L. Berger52Executive   Vice President and Chief Technical OfficerOct. 2011 - Present



Senior   Vice President and Chief Technical OfficerApr. 2008 — Sep.2011 (1)



Alex   N. Blanco52Executive   Vice President and Chief Supply Chain OfficerJan. 2013 — Present (2)



John   J. Corkrean47Senior   Vice President and Corporate ControllerOct. 2011 - Present



Vice   President and Corporate ControllerApr. 2008 — Sep.2011



Vice   President and TreasurerJan. 2008 — Mar. 2008



Thomas   W. Handley58President   and Chief Operating OfficerSep.  2012 - Present



Senior   Executive Vice President and President — Global Food & Beverage and   Asia Pacific Latin AmericaOct. 2011 — Aug.2012



President,   Global Food & Beverage and APLA SectorsJan. 2011 — Sep. 2011



President,   Global Food & BeverageSep. 2009 — Dec. 2010



President   — Industrial and Services North America SectorJan. 2008 — Aug. 2009



Michael   A. Hickey51Executive   Vice President and President — Global InstitutionalOct. 2012 — Present



Executive   Vice President and President — InstitutionalAug. 2011 — Sep.2012



Executive   Vice President Global Services SectorJan. 2011 — Jul. 2011



Executive   Vice President, Service SectorJan. 2010 — Dec. 2010










NameAgeOfficePositions Held SinceJan. 1, 2008



Michael   A. Hickey (con’t.)Senior   Vice President — Global Business Development and General Manager GCS ServiceJan. 2009 — Dec. 2009



Senior   Vice President — Global Business DevelopmentJan. 2008 — Dec. 2008



Michael   L. Meyer55Executive   Vice President — Human ResourcesOct. 2011 — Present



Senior   Vice President-Human ResourcesFeb. 2008 — Sep. 2011(3)



Timothy   P. Mulhere50Executive   Vice President and President — Global Water and Process ServicesOct. 2012 — Present



Executive   Vice President and President — Global HealthcareFeb. 2012 — Sep.2012



Senior   Vice President and General Manager — Food & Beverage North AmericaApr. 2008 — Jan. 2012



Senior   Vice President and General Manager — Healthcare North AmericaJan. 2008 — Mar. 2008



Daniel   J. Schmechel53Chief   Financial OfficerOct. 2012 - Present



Senior   Vice President — Services and SystemsJun. 2012 — Sep.2012



Senior   Vice President and Chief Transformation Officer — EMEAApr. 2008 — May 2012



Senior   Vice President and Corporate ControllerJan. 2008 — Mar. 2008



James   J. Seifert56Executive   Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryOct. 2011 — Present



General   Counsel & SecretaryMay 2010 — Sep. 2011(4)



Steven   M. Taylor51Executive   Vice President and President — Global Energy ServicesOct. 2012 - Present



Executive   Vice President — Energy ServicesDec. 2011 — Sep.2012 (5)



Jill   S. Wyant41Executive   Vice President and President — Global Food & BeverageOct. 2012 — Present



Senior   Vice President and General Manager — North America and Latin AmericaJan. 2012 — Sep. 2012



Senior   Vice President — Food & Beverage Asia Pacific and Latin AmericaMay 2010 — Dec. 2011



Vice   President — Global Strategic PlanningJun. 2009 — Apr. 2010 (6)





(1)Prior to joining Ecolab in 2008, Dr. Berger spent 22 years with E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, most recently as Chief Technical Officer for du Pont Nonwovens.



(2)Prior to joining Ecolab in 2013, Mr. Blanco was employed by Procter & Gamble Co., for 30 years, most recently as Vice President, Product Supply Global Beauty Sector.



(3)Prior to joining Ecolab in 2008, Mr. Meyer was employed for 24 years by Abbott Laboratories, most recently as Vice President Vascular Business Latin America and Canada. Mr. Meyer’s management and executive experience includes 22 years in Human Resources and assignments in Canada and Hong Kong.



(4)Prior to joining Ecolab in 2010, Mr. Seifert was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Bemis Company, Inc. since 2002.



(5)Prior to joining Ecolab in 2011 upon closing of the Nalco merger, Mr. Taylor was employed by Nalco for 17 years. Mr. Taylor led Nalco’s Energy Services Division since 2007 after a series of leadership roles in the division.



(6)Prior to joining Ecolab in 2009, Ms. Wyant held multiple leadership positions at General Electric.










