Item 1.  Business.



Item 1(a) General Development of Business.



Ecolab was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924. Our fiscal year is the calendar year ending December 31. International subsidiaries are included in the financial statements on the basis of their U.S. GAAP (accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America) November 30 fiscal year-ends to facilitate the timely inclusion of such entities in our consolidated financial reporting.



In 2016, we continued to invest in and build our business, including the July 2016 acquisition of a 33% minority investment in Aquatech International LLC (“Aquatech”). Based in Canonsburg, PA, Aquatech is a global leader in the design and engineering of complex and comprehensive water treatment solutions that improve water quality and reduce net water usage. On February 1, 2017, we acquired Laboratoires Anios (“Anios”), a leading European manufacturer and marketer of hygiene and disinfection products for the healthcare, food service, and food and beverage processing industries. See Part II, Item 8, Note 4 of this Form 10-K for additional information about these acquisitions.



Item 1(b) Financial Information About Operating Segments.



The financial information about reportable segments appearing under the heading “Operating Segments and Geographic Information” is incorporated by reference from Part II, Item 8, Note 17 of this Form 10-K.



Item 1(c) Narrative Description of Business.



General



With 2016 sales of $13.2 billion, we are the global leader in water, hygiene and energy technologies and services that protect people and vital resources. We deliver comprehensive programs and services to promote safe food, maintain clean environments, optimize water and energy use, and improve operational efficiencies for customers in the food, healthcare, energy, hospitality and industrial markets in more than 170 countries around the world. Our cleaning and sanitizing programs and products, pest elimination services, and equipment maintenance and repair services support customers in the foodservice, food and beverage processing, hospitality, healthcare, government and education, retail, textile care and commercial facilities management sectors. Our products and technologies are also used in water treatment, pollution control, energy conservation, oil production and refining, steelmaking, papermaking, mining and other industrial processes.



We pursue a “Circle the Customer – Circle the Globe” strategy by providing an array of innovative programs, products and services designed to meet the specific operational and sustainability needs of our customers throughout the world. Through this strategy and our varied product and service mix, one customer may utilize the offerings of several of our reportable segments.



The following description of our business is based upon our reportable segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016, which are located in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. Eight of our ten operating segments have been aggregated into three reportable segments: Global Industrial, Global Institutional and Global Energy. Our two operating segments that are primarily fee-for-service have been combined into Other, and do not meet the quantitative criteria to be separately reported. We provide similar information for Other as compared to our three reportable segments as we consider the informationregarding its two underlying operating segments as useful in understanding our consolidated results.

















Global Industrial



This reportable segment consists of the Water, Food & Beverage, Paper and Textile Care operating segments, which provide water treatment and process applications, and cleaning and sanitizing solutions, primarily to large industrial customers within the manufacturing, food and beverage processing, chemical, mining and primary metals, power generation, pulp and paper, and commercial laundry industries. The underlying operating segments exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics. Descriptions of the four operating segments which comprise our Global Industrial reportable segment follow below.



Water



Water serves customers across industrial and institutional markets, with the exception of the pulp and paper industry which is serviced by Paper and the energy industries which are served by Energy. Within Water, we serve customers in aerospace, chemical, pharmaceutical, mining and primary metals, power, food and beverage and medium and light manufacturing, as well as institutional clients such as hospitals, universities, commercial buildings and hotels.



Water provides water treatment products and programs for cooling water, boiler water, process water and waste water applications. Our cooling water treatment programs are designed to control the main problems associated with cooling water systems — corrosion, scale and microbial fouling and contamination — in open recirculating, once-through and closed systems. We provide integrated chemical solutions, process improvements and mechanical component modifications to optimize boiler performance and control corrosion and scale build-up. Our programs assist in the use of water for plant processes by optimizing the performance of treatment chemicals and equipment in order to minimize costs and maximize return on investment. Our wastewater products and programs focus on improving overall plant economics, addressing compliance issues, optimizing equipment efficiency and improving operator capabilities and effectiveness.



Our offerings include specialty products such as scale and corrosion inhibitors, antifoulants, pre-treatment solutions, membrane treatments, coagulants and flocculants, and anti-foams, as well as our 3D TRASARTMtechnology, which combines chemistry, remote services and monitoring and control. We provide products and programs for water treatment and process applications aimed at combining environmental benefits with economic gains for our customers.  Typically, water savings, energy savings, maintenance and capital expenditure avoidance are among the primary sources of value to our customers, with product quality and production enhancement improvements also providing a key differentiating feature for many of our offerings. Our offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees.



We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers world-wide among suppliers of products and programs for chemical applications within the industrial water treatment industry.



Food & Beverage



Food & Beverage addresses cleaning and sanitation at the beginning of the food chain to facilitate the processing of products for human consumption. Food & Beverage provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants, dairy farms, breweries, soft-drink bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other food processors. Food & Beverage is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during processing in order to reduce microbial contamination. Food & Beverage also designs, engineers and installs CIP (“clean‑in‑place”) process control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base. Products for use on farms are sold through dealers and independent, third-party distributors, while products for use in processing facilities are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees.



We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers world-wide of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm, food, meat and poultry, and beverage/brewery processor industries.











Paper



Paper provides water and process applications for the pulp and paper industries, offering a comprehensive portfolio of programs that are used in all principal steps of the papermaking process and across all grades of paper, including graphic grades, board and packaging, and tissue and towel. Paper provides its customers the same types of products and programs for water treatment and wastewater treatment as those offered by Water. Also, Paper offers two specialty programs—pulp applications and paper applications. Our pulp applications maximize process efficiency and increase pulp cleanliness and brightness in bleaching operations, as well as predict and monitor scaling potential utilizing on-line monitoring to design effective treatment programs and avoid costly failures. Our paper process applications focus on improving our customers’ operational efficiency.  Advanced sensing, monitoring and automation combine with innovative chemistries and detailed process knowledge to provide a broad range of customer solutions. Specialty products include flocculants, coagulants, dewatering aids, and digester yield enhances. Our offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees.



We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers world-wide of water treatment products and process aids to the pulp and papermaking industry.



Textile Care

Textile Care provides products and services that manage the entire wash process through custom designed programs, premium products, dispensing equipment, water and energy management, and real time data management for large scale, complex commercial laundry operations including uniform rental, hospitality, linen rental and healthcare laundries. Textile Care’s programs are designed to meet our customers’ needs for exceptional cleaning, while extending the useful life of linen and reducing our customers’ overall operating costs. Products and programs are marketed primarily through field sales employees and, to a lesser extent, through distributors.

We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers world-wide in the laundry markets in which we compete.

Global Institutional



This reportable segment consists of the Institutional, Specialty and Healthcare operating segments, which provide specialized cleaning and sanitizing products to the foodservice, hospitality, lodging, healthcare, government, education and retail industries. The underlying operating segments exhibit similar manufacturing processes, distribution methods and economic characteristics. Descriptions of the three operating segments which comprise our Global Institutional reportable segment follow below.



Institutional



Institutional sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment (“warewashing”), plus specialized cleaners for various applications throughout food service operations; for on-premise laundries (typically used by hotel and healthcare customers); and for general housekeeping functions, as well as food safety products and equipment, water filters, dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging, educational and healthcare industries. Institutional also provides pool and spa treatment programs for hospitality and other commercial customers, as well as a broad range of janitorial cleaning and floor care products and programs to customers in hospitality, healthcare and commercial facilities. Institutional develops various chemical dispensing systems which are used by our customers to efficiently and safely dispense our cleaners and sanitizers.  In addition, Institutional markets a lease program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and sanitizers, including full machine maintenance. Through our EcoSure Food Safety Management business, Institutional also provides customized on-site evaluations, training and quality assurance services to foodservice operations.



Institutional sells its products and programs primarily through its field sales and corporate account sales personnel. Corporate account sales personnel establish relationships and negotiate contracts with larger multi-unit or “chain” customers. We also utilize independent, third-party foodservice, broad-line and janitorial distributors to provide logistics to end customers for accounts that prefer to purchase through these distributors. Many of these distributors also participate in marketing our product and service offerings to the end customers. Through our field sales personnel, we generally provide the same customer support to end-use customers supplied by these distributors as we do to direct customers.



We believe that we are one of the leading global supplier of warewashing and laundry products and programs to the food service, hospitality and lodging markets.



Specialty



Specialty supplies cleaning and sanitizing chemical products and related items primarily to regional, national and international quick service restaurant (“QSR”) chains and food retailers (i.e., supermarkets and grocery stores). Its products include specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted cleaning tools and equipment which are primarily sold under the “Kay” and “Ecolab” brand names. Specialty’s cleaning and sanitation programs are customized to meet the needs of the market segments it serves and are designed to provide highly effective cleaning performance, promote food safety, reduce labor costs and enhance user and guest safety. A number of dispensing options are available for products in the core product range. Specialty supports its product sales with training programs and technical support designed to meet the special needs of its customers.











Both Specialty’s QSR business and its food retail business utilize a corporate account sales force which manages relationships with customers at the corporate headquarters and regional office levels (and, in the QSR market segment, at the franchisee level) and a field sales force which provides program support at the individual restaurant or store level. QSR customers are primarily supplied through third party distributors while most food retail customers utilize their own distribution networks. While Specialty’s customer base has grown over the years, Specialty’s business remains largely dependent upon a limited number of major QSR chains and franchisees and large food retail customers.



We believe that Specialty is one of the leading suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the global QSR market and a leading supplier of cleaning and sanitizing products to the global food retail market.



Healthcare



Healthcare provides infection prevention, surgical solutions and contamination control solutions to acute care hospitals, surgery centers, medical device Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEM”), and pharmaceutical and hospital clean room environments. Healthcare’s proprietary infection prevention and surgical solutions (hand hygiene, hard surface disinfection, instrument cleaning, patient drapes, equipment drapes and surgical fluid warming and cooling systems) are sold primarily under the "Ecolab" and "Microtek" brand names to various departments within the acute care environment (Infection Control, Environmental Services, Central Sterile and Operating Room).  Healthcare sells its products and programs primarily through field sales personnel and corporate account personnel but also sells through healthcare distributors.

We believe Healthcare is a leading supplier of infection prevention and surgical solutions in the United States and Europe.

Global Energy



This reportable segment, which operates primarily under the Nalco Champion name, consists of the Energy operating segment, which serves the process chemicals and water treatment needs of the global petroleum and petrochemical industries in both upstream and downstream applications.



Energy provides on-site, technology-driven solutions to the global drilling and completion, oil and gas production and refining and petrochemical industries. Our product portfolio includes; additives for drilling and well stimulation, corrosion inhibitors, oil and water separation, scale control, paraffin and asphaltene control, biocides, hydrate control, hydrogen sulfide removal, oil dispersants, foamers and anti-foamers, flow improvers, anti-foulants, crude desalting, monomer inhibitors, anti-oxidants, fuel and lubricant additives, and traditional water treatment. Our customers include nearly all of the largest publicly traded oil companies, as well as national oil companies and large independent oil companies. Our Energy offerings are sold primarily by our corporate account and field sales employees and, to a lesser extent, through distributors, sales agents and joint ventures.



Our upstream and downstream applications consist of the following:



·Well Stimulation and Completion: Our WellChem business supplies chemicals for the drilling, cementing, fracturing and acidizing phases of well drilling and stimulation. Our integrated approach to product development combines marketing and research efforts supported with process simulation, pilot production and full-scale manufacturing and logistics capabilities.



·Oilfield Applications: Our Oilfield Chemicals business provides solutions to the oil and gas production sector. We have expertise in crude oil and natural gas production, pipeline gathering/transmission systems, gas processing, heavy oil and bitumen upgrading and enhanced oil recovery. Our priority is to safely manage the critical challenges facing today's oil and gas producers throughout the lifecycle of their assets.  Starting with the design/capital investment phase through asset decommission, a lifecycle approach to chemical solutions and offerings helps our customers minimize risk, achieve their production targets and maximize profitability.



·Custom Equipment and Facilities:Our FabTech business designs, fabricates and commissions custom, high-quality oil and gas equipment for a range of applications. Our UltraFab business designs, fabricates and commissions compact, modular, and custom-engineered H2S mitigation systems that help to ensure optimized and effective treatment.



·Downstream Applications:Our customized process and water treatment programs are delivered by onsite technical experts serving the petroleum refining, petrochemical and fuels industry. We are focused on providing improved system reliability, reduced total cost of operations, environmental compliance, sustainability in the form of energy and water savings and reduced carbon emissions. Our process programs mitigate fouling, desalting, corrosion, foaming and the effects of heavy metals. We provide total water and wastewater management solutions specific to customers’ refining and chemical processing needs including boiler treatment, cooling water treatment and wastewater treatment. We also offer an entire line of fuel additives including corrosion inhibitors, fuel stabilizers, pour point depressants, cetane improvers, detergents and antioxidants for home heating oil and premium diesel and gasoline packages.



We believe Energy is one of the leading global providers of specialty chemicals to the upstream oil and gas industry, and downstream refineries and petrochemical operations.









Other



Other consists of the Pest Elimination and Equipment Care operating segments. We provide pest elimination and kitchen repair and maintenance through our two operating units that are primarily fee-for-service businesses. In general, these businesses provide service which can augment or extend our product offerings to our business customers as a part of our “Circle the Customer” approach and, in particular, by enhancing our food safety capabilities.



Pest Elimination



Pest Elimination provides services designed to detect, eliminate and prevent pests, such as rodents and insects, in restaurants, food and beverage processors, educational and healthcare facilities, hotels, quick service restaurant and grocery operations and other institutional and commercial customers. The services of Pest Elimination are sold and performed by field sales and service personnel.



Pest Elimination continues to expand its geographic coverage. In addition to the United States, which constitutes the largest operation, we operate in various countries in Asia Pacific, Western Europe, Latin America and South Africa, with the largest operations in France, the United Kingdom, Greater China and Mexico.

We believe Pest Elimination is a leading supplier of pest elimination programs to the commercial, hospitality and institutional markets in the geographies it serves.



Equipment Care



Equipment Care provides equipment repair, maintenance and preventive maintenance services for the commercial food service industry. Repair services are offered for in-warranty repair, acting as the manufacturer’s authorized service agent, as well as after-warranty repair. In addition, Equipment Care operates as a parts distributor to repair service companies and end-use customers. The Equipment Care business operates solely in the United States.



We believe that Equipment Care is a leading provider of equipment maintenance and repair programs to the commercial food service industry in the United States locations in which we compete.



Additional Information



International Operations



We directly operate in approximately 100 countries outside of the United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in some cases, through a joint venture with a local partner. In certain countries, selected products are sold by our export operations to distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume of those sales is not significant in terms of our overall revenues. In general, our businesses conducted outside the United States are similar to those conducted in the United States.

Our business operations outside the United States are subject to the usual risks of foreign operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws, international business laws and regulations, tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions. The profitability of our International operations is generally lower than the profitability of our businesses in the United States, due to (i) the additional cost of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions, (ii) higher costs of importing certain raw materials and finished goods in some regions, (iii) the smaller scale of international operations where certain operating locations are smaller in size, and (iv) the additional reliance on distributors and agents in certain countries which can negatively impact our margins. Proportionately larger investments in sales and technical support are also necessary in certain geographies in order to facilitate the growth of our international operations.



Competition



In general, the markets in which the businesses in our Global Industrial reportable segment compete are led by a few large companies, with the rest of the market served by smaller entities focusing on more limited geographic regions or a smaller subset of products and services. Our businesses in this segment compete on the basis of their demonstrated value, technical expertise, chemical formulations, customer support, detection equipment, monitoring capabilities, and dosing and metering equipment.



The businesses in our Global Institutional reportable segment and Other have two significant classes of competitors. First, we compete with a small number of large companies selling directly or through distributors on a national or international scale. Second, we have numerous smaller regional or local competitors which focus on more limited geographies, product lines and/or end-use customer segments.  We compete principally by providing superior value, premium customer support and differentiated products to help our customers protect their brand reputation.



Our Global Energy reportable segment competes with a limited number of multinational companies, with the remainder of the market comprised of smaller, regional niche companies focused on limited geographic areas.  We compete in this business on the basis of our product quality, technical expertise, chemical formulations, effective global supply chain, strong customer service and emphasis on safety and environmental leadership.











Sales



Products, systems and services are primarily marketed in domestic and international markets by Company-trained field sales personnel who also advise and assist our customers in the proper and efficient use of the products and systems in order to meet a full range of cleaning and sanitation, water treatment and process chemistry needs. Independent, third-party distributors and, to a lesser extent, sales agents, are utilized in several markets, as described in the segment descriptions found above.



Number of Employees



We had 47,565 employees as of December 31, 2016.



Customers and Classes of Products



We believe that our business is not materially dependent upon a single customer. Additionally, although we have a diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our 2016 consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our financial position. No material part of our business is subject to renegotiation or termination at the election of a governmental unit.

We sold one class of products within the Global Institutional segment which comprised 10% or more of consolidated net sales in two of the last three years. Sales of warewashing products were approximately 11% and 10% of consolidated net sales in 2016 and 2015, respectively.



Patents and Trademarks



We own and license a number of patents, trademarks and other intellectual property. While we have an active program to protect our intellectual property by filing for patents or trademarks and pursuing legal action, when appropriate, to prevent infringement, except for the items listed below, we do not believe that our overall business is materially dependent on any individual patent or trademark.



·Patents related to our TRASAR and 3D TRASAR technology, which are material to our Global Industrial reportable segment. U.S. and foreign patents protect aspects of our key TRASAR and 3D TRASAR technology until at least 2024.



·Trademarks related to Ecolab, Nalco and 3D TRASAR, which collectively are material to all of our reportable segments. The Ecolab, Nalco Company and 3D TRASAR trademarks are registered or applied for in all of our key markets, and we anticipate maintaining them indefinitely.



Seasonality



We experience variability in our quarterly operating results due to seasonal sales volume and business mix fluctuations in our operating segments. Part II, Item 8, Note 18, entitled “Quarterly Financial Data” of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference.



Investments in Equipment



We have no unusual working capital requirements. We have invested in the past, and will continue to invest in the future, in process control and monitoring equipment consisting primarily of systems used by customers to dispense our products as well as to monitor water systems. The investment in such equipment is discussed under the heading "Investing Activities" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K.



Manufacturing and Distribution



We manufacture most of our products and related equipment in Company-operated manufacturing facilities. Some products are also produced for us by third-party contract manufacturers. Other products and equipment are purchased from third-party suppliers. Additional information on product/equipment sourcing is found in the segment discussions above and additional information on our manufacturing facilities is located under Part I, Item 2. “Properties,” of this Form 10-K.



Deliveries to customers are made from our manufacturing plants and a network of distribution centers and third-party logistics service providers. We use common carriers, our own delivery vehicles, and distributors for transport. Additional information on our plant and distribution facilities is located under Part I, Item 2. “Properties,” of this Form 10-K.



Raw Materials



Raw materials purchased for use in manufacturing our products are inorganic chemicals, including alkalis, acids, biocides, phosphonates, phosphorous materials, silicates and salts; and organic chemicals, including acids, alcohols, amines, fatty acids, surfactants, solvents, monomers and polymers. Healthcare purchases plastic films and parts to manufacture medical devices that serve the surgical and infection prevention markets. Pesticides used by Pest Elimination are purchased as finished products under contract or purchase order from the producers or their distributors. We also purchase packaging materials for our manufactured products and components for our specialized cleaning equipment and systems. We purchase more than 10,000 raw materials, with the largest single raw material representing less than 2% of raw material purchases. Our raw materials, with the exception of a few specialized chemicals which we





manufacture, are generally purchased on an annual contract basis and are ordinarily available in adequate quantities from a diverse group of suppliers globally. When practical, global sourcing is used so that purchasing or production locations can be shifted to control product costs at globally competitive levels.



Research and Development



Our research and development program consists principally of developing and validating the performance of new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the efficiency of existing ones, improving service program content, evaluating the environmental compatibility of products and technical support. Key disciplines include analytical and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process and packaging engineering, remote monitoring engineering and product dispensing technology. Substantially all of our principal products have been developed by our research, development and engineering personnel. At times, technology has also been licensed from third parties to develop offerings.



We believe that continued research and development activities are critical to maintaining our leadership position within the industry and will provide us with a competitive advantage as we seek additional business with new and existing customers.



Part II, Item 8, Note 14, entitled “Research and Development Expenditures” of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference.



Joint Ventures



Over time, we have entered into partnerships or joint ventures in order to meet local ownership requirements, to achieve quicker operational scale, to expand our ability to provide our customers a more fully integrated offering or to provide other benefits to our business or customers. During 2016, the impact on our consolidated net income of our joint ventures, in the aggregate, was less than three percent. The table below identifies our most significant consolidated and non-consolidated joint ventures, summarized by the primary purpose of the joint venture.



Local Ownership Requirements / Geographic ExpansionJoint VentureLocationSegmentNalco Angola Prestação de Serviços, LimitadaAngolaGlobal EnergyNalco Saudi Co. Ltd.Saudi ArabiaGlobal Energy, Global IndustrialRauanNalco LLPKazakhstanGlobal EnergyEmirates National Chemical Company LLCUnited Arab EmiratesGlobal EnergyMalaysian Energy Chemical & Services Sdn. Bhd.MalaysiaGlobal EnergyNalco Champion Dai-ichi India Private LimitedIndiaGlobal EnergyNalco Champion EG SarlEquatorial GuineaGlobal EnergyAGS Champion LLPKazakhstanGlobal EnergyNalco Champion Ghana LimitedGhanaGlobal EnergyOperational Scale / Geographic Critical MassJoint VentureLocationSegmentKatayama Nalco Inc.JapanGlobal IndustrialTechnology / Expanded Product Offering / Manufacturing CapabilityJoint VentureLocationSegmentAquatech International, LLCUnited StatesGlobal IndustrialTreated Water OutsourcingUnited StatesGlobal IndustrialDerypol, S.A.SpainGlobal IndustrialKogalym Chemicals Plant LLCRussiaGlobal EnergyCJSC Nalco Element JVRussiaGlobal EnergyCentury LLCUnited StatesGlobal Institutional



Additionally, we continue to be party to the Ecolab S.A. joint venture in Venezuela, which historically operated businesses in our Global Industrial and Global Institutional segments. This joint venture was included among the Venezuelan subsidiaries that we deconsolidated for U.S. GAAP purposes effective at the end of the fourth quarter of 2015, as further described within the MD&A and Part II, Item 8, Note 3 of this Form 10-K.



We will continue to evaluate the potential for partnerships and joint ventures that can assist us in increasing our geographic, technological and product reach.











Environmental and Regulatory Considerations



Our businesses are subject to various legislative enactments and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and public health. While we cooperate with governmental authorities and take commercially practicable measures to meet regulatory requirements and avoid or limit environmental effects, some risks are inherent in our businesses. Among the risks are costs associated with transporting and managing hazardous materials and waste disposal and plant site clean‑up, fines and penalties if we are found to be in violation of law, as well as modifications, disruptions or discontinuation of certain operations or types of operations including product recalls and reformulations. Similarly, the need for certain of our products and services is dependent upon or might be limited by governmental laws and regulations. Changes in such laws and regulations, including among others, air pollution regulations and regulations relating to oil and gas production (including those related to hydraulic fracturing), could impact the sales of some of our products or services. In addition to an increase in costs of manufacturing and delivering products, a change in production regulations or product regulations could result in interruptions to our business and potentially cause economic or consequential losses should we be unable to meet the demands of our customers for products.



Additionally, although we are not currently aware of any such circumstances, there can be no assurance that future legislation or enforcement policies will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  Environmental and regulatory matters most significant to us are discussed below.



Ingredient Legislation



TSCA: The nation’s primary chemicals management law, the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”), was updated for the first time in 40 years with the passage of the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act (“LCSA”) in 2016. The LCSA modernizes the original 1976 legislation, aiming to establish greater public confidence in the safety of chemical substances in commerce, improve the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) EPA’s capability and authority to regulate existing and new chemical substances, and prevent further state action or more other notification programs like REACH (see below).  For Ecolab, the new TSCA rules will mainly impact testing and submission costs for new chemical substances in the United States.  In addition, the EPA likely will be more aggressively using the existing TSCA tools to manage chemicals of concern. We anticipate that compliance with new requirements under TSCA could be similar to the costs associated with REACH in the European Union, which is discussed below.



REACH: The European Union has enacted a regulatory framework for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACH”). It established a new European Chemicals Agency (“ECHA”) in Helsinki, Finland, which is responsible for evaluating data to determine hazards and risks and to manage this program for authorizing chemicals for sale and distribution in Europe. We met the pre-registration requirements of REACH, the 2010 and 2013 registration deadlines, and are on track to meet the upcoming registration deadlines and requirements in 2018. To help manage this program, we have been simplifying our product lines and working with chemical suppliers to comply with registration requirements. In addition, Korea, Taiwan and other countries are planning similar requirements. Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one reporting period or on our financial position.



GHS: In 2003, the United Nations adopted a standard on hazard communication and labeling of chemical products known as the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (“GHS”). GHS is designed to facilitate international trade and increase safe handling and use of hazardous chemicals through a worldwide system that classifies chemicals based on their intrinsic hazards and communicates information about those hazards through standardized product labels and safety data sheets (“SDSs”). Most countries in which we operate will adopt GHS-related legislation, and numerous countries already have done so. The primary cost of compliance revolves around reclassifying products and revising SDSs and product labels. We met the 2015 deadlines in the U.S. and European Union and are working toward a phased-in approach to mitigate the costs of GHS implementation in other countries (e.g., June 2017 is the final deadline for Canada and Australia). Potential costs to us are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one reporting period or on our financial position.











Pesticide and Biocide Legislation



In Europe, the Biocidal Product Directive and the more recent Biocidal Products Regulation established a program to evaluate and authorize marketing of biocidal active substances and products. We are working with suppliers and industry groups to manage these requirements and have met the first relevant deadline of the program by the timely submission of dossiers for active substances. Anticipated registration costs, which will be incurred through the multi-year phase-in period, will be significant; however, these costs are not expected to significantly affect our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one reporting period or our financial position.



In addition, Pest Elimination applies restricted-use pesticides that it generally purchases from third parties. That business must comply with certain standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the licensing of employees who apply such pesticides. Such regulations are enforced primarily by the states or local jurisdictions in conformity with federal regulations. We have not experienced material difficulties in complying with these requirements.



FDA Antimicrobial Product Requirements: Various laws and regulations have been enacted by federal, state, local and foreign jurisdictions regulating certain products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and foods. In the United States, these requirements generally are administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"). However, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and EPA also may share in regulatory jurisdiction of antimicrobials applied to food. The FDA codifies regulations for these product categories in order to ensure product quality, safety and effectiveness. The FDA also has been expanding requirements applicable to such products, including proposing regulations for over-the-counter antiseptic drug products, which may impose additional requirements associated with antimicrobial hand care products and associated costs when finalized by the FDA. FDA regulations associated with the Food Safety Modernization Act may impose additional requirements related to safety product lines. To date, such requirements have not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Medical Device and Drug Product Requirements



Equipment:Ecolab’s products are dispensed by equipment that is subject to state and local regulatory requirements, as well as being subject to UL, NSF, and other approval requirements. We have both dedicated manufacturing facilities and third-party production of our equipment. We are developing processes to monitor and manage changing regulatory regimes and assist with equipment systems compliance. To date, such requirements have not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Other Environmental Legislation: Capital Expenditures: Our manufacturing plants are subject to federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations relating to discharge of hazardous substances into the environment and to the transportation, handling and disposal of such substances. The primary federal statutes that apply to our activities in the United States are the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We are also subject to the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which imposes certain reporting requirements as to emissions of hazardous substances into the air, land and water. The products we produce and distribute into Europe are also subject to





directives governing electrical waste (WEEE Directive 2012/19/EU) and restrictive substances (RoHS Directive 2011/65/EU). Similar legal requirements apply to Ecolab’s facilities globally. We make capital investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, to promote employee safety and to carry out our announced environmental sustainability principles. To date, such expenditures have not had a significant adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our capital expenditures for environmental, health and safety projects worldwide were approximately $60 million in 2016 and $55 million in 2015. Approximately $90 million has been budgeted globally for projects in 2017. The increase in 2017 over 2016 is due to continued spending on process safety and compliance matters throughout the Company, including facilities acquired in connection with the Champion transaction.



Climate Change: Various laws and regulations pertaining to climate change have been implemented or are being considered for implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels, particularly as they relate to the reduction of greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. None of these laws and regulations directly apply to Ecolab at the present time; however, as a matter of corporate policy, we support a balanced approach to reducing GHG emissions while sustaining economic growth. We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint and have made significant strides in recent years. In 2014, we received a Climate Leadership Award, co-sponsored by EPA, recognizing Ecolab for achieving an absolute global greenhouse gas emissions reduction of more than 12.5 percent (22.4 percent intensity reduction).



Our current global sustainability targets were established in 2016. They include a 25 percent reduction in water withdrawals and a 10 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. In addition to our internal sustainability performance, we partner with customers at more than 1.0 million customer locations around the world to reduce energy and greenhouse gas emissions through our high-efficiency solutions in cleaning and sanitation, water, paper and energy services. We also introduced a customer impact goal for the first time.  By partnering with our customers to help them do more with less through the use of our solutions, we aim to conserve more than 300 billion gallons of water annually by 2030.



Environmental Remediation and Proceedings: Along with numerous other potentially responsible parties (“PRP”), we are currently involved with waste disposal site clean‑up activities imposed by the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) or state equivalents at 24 sites in the United States. Additionally, we have similar liability at six sites outside the United States. In general, under CERCLA, we and each other PRP that actually contributed hazardous substances to a Superfund site are jointly and severally liable for the costs associated with cleaning up the site. Customarily, the PRPs will work with the EPA to agree and implement a plan for site remediation.



Based on an analysis of our experience with such environmental proceedings, our estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited on the sites referred to in the preceding paragraph, and our estimate of the contribution to be made by other PRPs which we believe have the financial ability to pay their shares, we have accrued our best estimate of our probable future costs relating to such known sites. Unasserted claims are not reflected in the accrual. In establishing accruals, potential insurance reimbursements are not included. The accrual is not discounted. It is not feasible to predict when the amounts accrued will be paid due to the uncertainties inherent in the environmental remediation and associated regulatory processes.



As previously reported, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (“TCEQ”) issued a Notice of Enforcement and Notice of Violation related to Ecolab’s facility in Fresno, TX on August 29, 2014, alleging violations of the facility’s air permits and various state and federal air laws. On June 24, 2015, the TCEQ issued a draft consent decree to Ecolab for certain violations, with the TCEQ ultimately seeking an administrative penalty of approximately $850,000. The company signed an Agreed Order with the TCEQ on May 2, 2016 to pay this penalty, which is subject to approval by the TCEQ, and simultaneously paid the first installment of approximately $425,000. The final installment will be paid upon approval of the Agreed Order by the TCEQ.



We have also been named as a defendant in lawsuits where our products have not caused injuries, but the claimants wish to be monitored for potential future injuries. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any such tort claims or the involvement we or our products might have in such matters in the future, and there can be no assurance that the discovery of previously unknown conditions will not require significant expenditures. In each of these chemical exposure cases, our insurance carriers have accepted the claims on our behalf (with or without reservation) and our financial exposure should be limited to the amount of our deductible; however, we cannot predict the number of claims that we may have to defend in the future and we may not be able to continue to maintain such insurance.



We have also been named as a defendant in a number of lawsuits alleging personal injury due to exposure to hazardous substances, including multi-party lawsuits alleging personal injury in connection with our products and services. While we do not believe that any of these suits will be material to us based upon present information, there can be no assurance that these environmental matters could not have, either individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.



Our worldwide net expenditures for contamination remediation were approximately $9.0 million in 2016 and $6.5 million in 2015. Our worldwide accruals at December 31, 2016 for probable future remediation expenditures, excluding potential insurance reimbursements, totaled approximately $22 million. We review our exposure for contamination remediation costs periodically and our accruals are adjusted as considered appropriate. While the final resolution of these issues could result in costs below or above current accruals and, therefore, have an impact on our consolidated financial results in a future reporting period, we believe the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.











Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012





Item 1(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas.



The financial information about geographic areas appearing under the heading “Operating Segments and Geographic Information” is incorporated by reference from Part II, Item 8, Note 17 of this Form 10-K.



Item 1(e) Available Information.



Our Internet address is www.ecolab.com. Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are available free of charge on our website www.ecolab.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



In addition, the following governance materials are available on our web site at www.ecolab.com/investors/corporate-governance: (i) charters of the Audit, Compensation, Finance, Governance and Safety, Health and Environment Committees of our Board of Directors; (ii) our Board's Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) our Code of Conduct.



Executive Officers of the Registrant.



The persons listed in the following table are our current executive officers. Officers are elected annually. There is no family relationship among any of the directors or executive officers, and except as otherwise noted, no executive officer has been involved during the past ten years in any legal proceedings described in applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.



NameAgeOfficePositions Held SinceJan. 1, 2012Douglas M. Baker, Jr.58Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerJan. 2012 – PresentChristophe Beck49Executive Vice President and President – Global WaterMay 2015 - Present& Process ServicesExecutive Vice President and President – RegionsOct. 2012 – May 2015Executive Vice President – Global IntegrationJan. 2012 – Sep. 2012Larry L. Berger56Executive Vice President and Chief Technical OfficerJan. 2012 – PresentAlex N. Blanco56Executive Vice President and Chief Supply Chain OfficerJan. 2013 – Present1Thomas W. Handley62President and Chief Operating OfficerSep.  2012 – PresentSenior Executive Vice President and President – Global Food & Beverage and Asia Pacific Latin AmericaJan. 2012 – Aug. 2012Michael A. Hickey55Executive Vice President and President – Global InstitutionalOct. 2012 – PresentExecutive Vice President and President – InstitutionalJan. 2012 – Sep. 2012Bryan L. Hughes48Senior Vice President and Corporate ControllerMay 2014 - PresentVice President-Finance, Global InstitutionalJan. 2012 – Apr. 2014Roberto61Executive Vice President and President – Global ServicesSep. 2012 - PresentInchausteguiand SpecialtyExecutive Vice President and President – Global SpecialtyJan. 2012 – Sep. 2012





NameAgeOfficePositions Held SinceJan. 1, 2012Laurie M. Marsh53Executive Vice President – Human ResourcesNov. 2013 – PresentVice President – Total Rewards and HR Service Delivery & TechnologyJan. 2012 – Oct.2013Timothy P. Mulhere54Executive Vice President and President – RegionsMay 2015 – PresentExecutive Vice President and President – Global Water and Process ServicesOct. 2012 – May 2015Executive Vice President and President – Global HealthcareFeb. 2012 – Sep. 2012Senior Vice President and General Manager – Food & Beverage North AmericaJan. 2012 – Jan. 2012Daniel J. Schmechel57Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerJan. 2017 – PresentChief Financial OfficerOct. 2012 – Dec. 2016Senior Vice President – Services and SystemsJun. 2012 – Sep. 2012Senior Vice President and Chief Transformation Officer – EMEAJan. 2012 – May 2012James J. Seifert60Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryJan. 2012 – PresentStephen M. Taylor55Executive Vice President and President – Nalco ChampionApr. 2013 – PresentExecutive Vice President and President – Global Energy ServicesOct. 2012 – March 2013Executive Vice President – Energy ServicesJan. 2012 – Sep. 2012Jill S. Wyant45Executive Vice President and President – Global Food & Beverage, Healthcare and Life SciencesMay 2016 – PresentExecutive Vice President and President – Global Food & BeverageOct. 2012 – April 2016Senior Vice President and General Manager – North America and Latin AmericaJan. 2012 – Sep. 2012



1. Prior to joining Ecolab in 2013, Mr. Blanco was employed by Procter & Gamble Co., for 30 years, most recently as Vice President, Product Supply Global Beauty Sector.



Forward-Looking Statements



This Form 10-K, including the MD&A within Part II, Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results and future events to differ materially from those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements:



·amount, funding and timing of cash expenditures relating to our restructuring and other initiatives

·capital investments and strategic business acquisitions

·share repurchases

·payments under operating leases

·borrowing capacity

·global market risk

·impact of oil price fluctuations, comparative performance and prospects of businesses in our Global Energy segment

·targeted credit rating metrics

·long-term potential of our business

·impact of changes in exchange rates and interest rates

·losses due to concentration of credit risk

·recognition of share-based compensation expense

·future benefit plan payments

·amortization expense

·customer retention rate

·bad debt experiences and customer credit worthiness

·disputes, claims and litigation

·environmental contingencies

·returns on pension plan assets

·funding of cash requirements, future cash flow and uses for cash

·dividends

·debt repayments

·contributions to pension and postretirement healthcare plans

·liquidity requirements and borrowing methods

·impact of credit rating downgrade

·impact of new accounting pronouncements

·tax deductibility of goodwill

·non-performance of counterparties









·income taxes, including valuation allowances, loss carryforwards, unrecognized tax benefits and uncertain tax positions

·market position

·doing business in Iran

·impact from Brexit



Without limiting the foregoing, words or phrases such as “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “we believe,” “we expect,” “estimate,” “project” (including the negative or variations thereof) or similar terminology, generally identify forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements may also represent challenging goals for us. These statements, which represent the Company’s expectations or beliefs concerning various future events, are based on current expectations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those of such forward-looking statements. We caution that undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. For a further discussion of these and other factors which could cause results to differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statement, see Item 1A of this Form 10-K, entitled “Risk Factors”. Except as may be required under applicable law, we undertake no duty to update our forward-looking statements.





