Item 1.Business

General

People’s United Financial, Inc. (“People’s United Financial” or the “Company”) is a savings and loan holding
company incorporated under the state laws of Delaware and the holding company for People’s United Bank, a federally-chartered stock savings bank headquartered in Bridgeport, Connecticut.

The principal business of People’s United Financial is
to provide, through People’s United Bank and its subsidiaries, commercial banking, retail and business banking, and wealth management services to individual, corporate and municipal customers. Traditional banking activities are conducted
primarily within New England and southeastern New York, and include extending secured and unsecured commercial and consumer loans, originating mortgage loans secured by residential and commercial properties, and accepting consumer, commercial and
municipal deposits.

In addition to traditional banking activities, People’s United Bank provides specialized financial
services tailored to specific markets including: personal, institutional and employee benefit trust; cash management; and municipal banking and finance. Through its non-banking subsidiaries, People’s United Bank offers: brokerage, financial
advisory services, investment management services and life insurance through People’s Securities, Inc. (“PSI”); equipment financing through People’s Capital and Leasing Corp. (“PCLC”) and People’s United Equipment
Finance Corp. (“PUEFC”); and other insurance services through People’s United Insurance Agency, Inc. (“PUIA”).

This full range of financial services is delivered through a network of 419 branches located in Connecticut, southeastern New York, Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine, including 86
full-service Stop & Shop supermarket branches throughout Connecticut and 54 in southeastern New York that provide customers with seven-day-a-week banking. People’s United Bank’s distribution network includes investment and
brokerage offices, commercial banking offices, online banking and investment trading, a 24-hour telephone banking service and participation in a worldwide ATM network. PCLC and PUEFC maintain a sales presence in 14 states to support equipment
financing operations throughout the United States. People’s United Bank maintains a mortgage warehouse lending group located in Kentucky and a national credits group, which has participations in commercial loans and commercial real estate loans
to borrowers in various industries on a national scale.







People’s United Financial’s operations are divided into three primary operating
segments that represent its core businesses: Commercial Banking; Retail and Business Banking; and Wealth Management. In addition, the Treasury area manages People’s United Financial’s securities portfolio, short-term investments and
wholesale borrowings.

The Company’s operating segments have been aggregated into two reportable segments: Commercial
Banking; and Retail and Business Banking. Commercial Banking consists principally of commercial real estate lending, commercial and industrial lending, and commercial deposit gathering activities. This segment also includes the equipment financing
operations of PCLC and PUEFC, as well as cash management, correspondent banking and municipal banking. In addition, Commercial Banking consists of institutional trust services, corporate trust, insurance services provided through PUIA and private
banking. Retail and Business Banking includes, as its principal business lines, business lending, consumer and business deposit gathering activities, consumer lending (including residential mortgage and home equity lending), and merchant services.
In addition, Retail and Business Banking includes brokerage, financial advisory services, investment management services and life insurance provided by PSI and non-institutional trust services.

Further discussion of People’s United Financial’s business and operations appears on pages 24 through 91.

Supervision and Regulation—People’s United Financial

Federal Holding Company Regulation

People’s United Financial is a
savings and loan holding company within the meaning of the Home Owners’ Loan Act (“HOLA”). Until July 2011, People’s United Financial was regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision (the “OTS”) and subject to OTS
examination, supervision and reporting requirements. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “DFA”) transferred all supervisory functions, including ongoing supervision, examination and regulation, for
savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository subsidiaries to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”), effective July 21, 2011. Among other things, this authority permits the FRB to restrict or
prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to the subsidiary savings bank.

Although savings and loan
holding companies are currently not subject to consolidated regulatory leverage or risk-based capital requirements, FRB guidance indicates that a savings and loan holding company should have sufficient capital and an effective capital planning
process, consistent with its overall risk profile and considering the size, scope, and complexity of its operations, to ensure its safe and sound operation. The FRB has also indicated that it will evaluate a savings and loan holding company’s
capital planning and capital distribution processes, and its capital sufficiency in light of relevant supervisory guidance applicable to bank holding companies. The FRB also announced that in light of the requirements of the HOLA and any unique
characteristics of savings and loan holding companies, it intends to assess the condition, performance and activities of savings and loan holding companies in a manner consistent with the FRB’s established risk-based approach for bank holding
companies.

Activities Restrictions Applicable to Savings and Loan Holding Companies.The activities of all
savings and loan holding companies formed after May 4, 1999, including People’s United Financial, must be financially related activities permissible for bank holding companies, unless the savings and loan holding company has elected to be
treated as a financial holding company. A savings and loan holding company that has made a financial holding company election may also engage in activities permissible under section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act. As of December 31, 2012,
People’s United Financial had not made an election to be treated as a financial holding company.







Restrictions Applicable to All Savings and Loan Holding Companies.Federal law
prohibits a savings and loan holding company directly or indirectly, from acquiring:



•control (as defined under the HOLA) of another savings bank (or a holding company parent) without prior FRB approval;



•through merger, consolidation or purchase of assets, another savings bank or a holding company thereof, or acquiring all or substantially all of the
assets of such institution or holding company without prior approval by the FRB or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”); or



•control of any depository institution not insured by the FDIC (except through a merger with and into the holding company’s savings bank subsidiary
that is approved by the OCC).

The HOLA prohibits a savings and loan holding company (directly or
indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries) from acquiring another savings bank or holding company thereof without prior written approval of the FRB; acquiring or retaining, with certain exceptions, more than 5% of a non-subsidiary savings
bank, a non-subsidiary holding company or a non-subsidiary company engaged in activities other than those permitted by the HOLA; or acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not federally insured. In evaluating applications
by holding companies to acquire savings banks, the FRB must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund (the
“DIF”), the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors.

Federal Securities Law

People’s United Financial’s common stock is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), as amended. People’s United Financial is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, and other requirements and restrictions of the Exchange Act.

Delaware Corporation Law

People’s United Financial is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware and is, therefore, subject to regulation by the state of Delaware. The rights of People’s United
Financial’s stockholders are governed by the Delaware General Corporation Law.

Supervision and Regulation—People’s United
Bank

General

People’s United Bank is a federally-chartered savings bank. Its deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC under the DIF. Until July 2011, People’s United Bank was subject
to regulation, examination, supervision and reporting requirements by the OTS as its chartering agency, and by the FDIC as the deposit insurer. On July 21, 2011, primary supervisory responsibility for People’s United Bank was transferred
from the OTS to the OCC. People’s United Bank files reports with the OCC concerning its activities and financial condition, and must obtain regulatory approval from the OCC prior to entering into certain transactions, such as mergers with, or
acquisitions of, other depository institutions. The OCC conducts periodic examinations to assess compliance with various regulatory requirements. The OCC has primary enforcement responsibility over federally chartered savings banks with more than
$10 billion in total assets and has substantial discretion to impose enforcement action on a federally-chartered savings bank that fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, particularly with respect to capital requirements imposed on
savings banks. In addition, the FDIC has the authority to recommend to the OCC that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular federally chartered savings bank and, if action is not taken by the OCC, the FDIC has authority to take such
action under certain circumstances.







This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which
a federal savings bank can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the DIF and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement
activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such laws and regulations or interpretations thereof,
whether by the OCC, the FDIC or through legislation, could have a material adverse impact on People’s United Bank and its operations.

People’s United Bank’s brokerage subsidiary, PSI, is regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators. PUIA is subject to regulation by
applicable state insurance regulators.

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

Effective July 21, 2011, the DFA transferred primary supervisory and enforcement authority with respect to compliance with designated
federal consumer financial laws by financial institutions with total assets of more than $10 billion and their affiliates to a newly-established autonomous bureau within the Federal Reserve System, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the
“CFPB”). The primary functions of the CFPB are: supervising entities, including financial institutions, that provide consumer financial products or services for compliance with federal consumer financial laws; taking appropriate
enforcement action to address violations; issuing rules, orders and guidance implementing federal consumer financial laws; conducting financial education programs; collecting, investigating, and reporting consumer complaints; and collecting
researching, monitoring and publishing information relevant to the functioning of markets for consumer financial products to identify risk to consumers and the proper functioning of such markets.

Federally Chartered Savings Bank Regulation

Activity Powers.Federal savings banks derive their lending, investment and other activity powers primarily from the HOLA, as amended, and the regulations of the OCC thereunder. Under these laws
and regulations, federal savings banks generally may invest in:



•real estate mortgages;



•consumer and commercial loans;



•certain types of debt securities; and



•certain other assets.

Federal savings banks may also establish service corporations that may, subject to applicable limitations, engage in activities not otherwise permissible for federal savings banks, including certain real
estate equity investments and securities and insurance brokerage activities. People’s United Bank’s investment powers are subject to various limitations, including (1) a prohibition against the acquisition of corporate debt securities
not meeting established standards of credit-worthiness; (2) a limit of 400% of a savings bank’s capital on the aggregate amount of loans secured by non-residential real estate property; (3) a limit of 20% of a savings bank’s
assets on commercial loans, with the amount of commercial loans in excess of 10% of assets being limited to small business loans; (4) a limit of 35% of a savings bank’s assets on the aggregate amount of consumer loans and acquisitions of
certain debt securities, with amounts in excess of 30% of assets being limited to loans made directly to the original obligor and where no third-party finder or referral fees were paid; (5) a limit of 5% of assets on non-conforming loans
(residential and farm loans in excess of the specific limitations of the HOLA); and (6) a limit of the greater of 5% of assets or a savings bank’s capital on certain construction loans made for the purpose of financing what is or is
expected to become residential property.







Capital Requirements.OCC capital regulations require federally chartered savings
banks to meet three minimum capital ratios:



•Tangible Capital Ratio - A 1.5% tangible capital ratio, calculated as tangible capital to adjusted total assets.



•Leverage (Core) Capital Ratio - A 4% leverage (core) capital ratio, calculated as core capital to adjusted total assets. The minimum leverage (core)
capital ratio is reduced to 3% if the savings bank received the highest rating on its most recent safety and soundness examination.



•Risk-Based Capital Ratio - An 8% total risk-based capital ratio, calculated as total capital to risk-weighted assets. For purposes of this calculation,
total capital includes core and supplementary capital, provided that supplementary capital may not exceed 100% of core capital.

In assessing an institution’s capital adequacy, the OCC takes into consideration not only these numeric factors but also qualitative factors as well, and has the authority to establish higher capital
requirements for individual institutions where necessary. People’s United Bank, as a matter of prudent management, targets as its goal the maintenance of capital ratios which exceed these minimum requirements and that are consistent with
People’s United Bank’s risk profile.

In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision released its
final framework for capital requirements (the “Basel framework” or “Basel III”). When implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully phased-in, Basel III will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to
maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity.

In June 2012, the U.S. banking agencies issued
proposed rules to address implementation of the Basel III framework for U.S. financial institutions. The proposed rules set forth changes in the calculation of risk-weighted assets and introduce limitations on what is permissible for inclusion as
Tier 1 capital. In August 2012, the comment period for the proposed rules, which was originally scheduled to end in early September 2012, was extended to late October 2012. The implementation of the Basel III final framework was scheduled to
commence on January 1, 2013, however final rules have not been issued by U.S. banking agencies and, therefore, Basel III is not yet applicable to the Company or People’s United Bank. At December 31, 2012, People’s United Bank
exceeded each of its applicable capital requirements. SeeManagement’s Discussion & Analysis—Regulatory Capital Requirementsbeginning on page 84 for a further discussion regarding People’s United Bank’s capital
requirements.

Safety and Soundness Standards.Each federal banking agency, including the OCC, has adopted guidelines
establishing general standards relating to internal controls, information and internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings and compensation, fees and benefits. In
general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines.

In addition, the OCC adopted regulations to require a savings bank that is given notice by the OCC that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan to the
OCC. If, after being so notified, a savings bank fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an accepted compliance plan, the OCC may issue an order directing corrective and other actions of the types
to which a significantly undercapitalized institution is subject under the “prompt corrective action” provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act. If a savings bank fails to comply with such an order, the OCC
may seek to enforce the order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil monetary penalties.

Prompt Corrective
Action.The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act also established a system of prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. Under this system, the federal bank regulators, including the OCC,
are required to take certain and authorized to take other, supervisory actions against undercapitalized institutions, based upon five categories of capitalization which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act created:
“well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.”







The severity of the action authorized or required to be taken under the prompt corrective
action regulations increases as a bank’s capital decreases within the three undercapitalized categories. All banks are prohibited from paying dividends or other capital distributions or paying management fees to any controlling person if,
following such distribution, the bank would be undercapitalized. The OCC is required to monitor closely the condition of an undercapitalized savings bank and to restrict the growth of its assets. An undercapitalized bank is required to file a
capital restoration plan within 45 days of the date the bank receives notice or is deemed to have notice that it is within any of the three undercapitalized categories, and the plan must be guaranteed by any parent holding company. The aggregate
liability of a parent holding company is limited to the lesser of:



•an amount equal to 5% of the bank’s total assets at the time it became “undercapitalized”; and



•the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the bank into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to
such bank as of the time it fails to comply with a capital restoration plan.

If a bank fails to submit an
acceptable plan, it is treated as if it were “significantly undercapitalized.” Banks that are significantly or critically undercapitalized are subject to a wider range of regulatory requirements and restrictions. Under OCC regulations,
generally, a federal savings bank is treated as “well-capitalized” if its total risk-based capital ratio is 10% or greater, its Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio is 6% or greater, and its leverage ratio is 5% or greater, and it is not
subject to any order or directive by the OCC to meet a specific capital level. As of December 31, 2012, People’s United Bank’s regulatory capital ratios exceeded the OCC’s numeric criteria for classification as a
“well-capitalized” institution.

In June 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies, including the FRB and the OCC,
issued a proposed rule to implement capital reforms required by Basel III and the DFA (see Capital Requirements). This proposed rule would also revise the prompt corrective action framework by incorporating new regulatory capital minimums, including
a requirement for tangible common equity.

Insurance Activities.Federal savings banks are generally permitted to
engage in certain insurance and annuity activities through subsidiaries. However, federal banking laws prohibit depository institutions from conditioning the extension of credit to individuals upon either the purchase of an insurance product or
annuity from an entity affiliated with the depository institution or an agreement by the consumer not to purchase an insurance product or annuity from an entity that is not affiliated with the depository institution. Applicable regulations also
require prior disclosure of this prohibition to potential insurance product or annuity customers.

Federal banking agencies,
including the OCC, also require depository institutions that offer non-deposit investment products, such as certain annuity and related insurance products, to disclose to the consumer that the products are not federally insured, are not guaranteed
by the institution and are subject to investment risk including possible loss of principal. These disclosure requirements apply if the institution offers the non-deposit investment products directly or through affiliates or subsidiaries.

Deposit Insurance.People’s United Bank is a member of, and pays its deposit insurance assessments to, the DIF.

The FDIC has established a system for setting deposit insurance premiums based upon the risks a particular bank or savings association
poses to the DIF. In 2009, in response to adverse economic conditions that resulted in an increased number of bank failures and, consequently, greater use of DIF resources, the FDIC authorized higher premium assessments pursuant to a restoration
plan designed to increase the DIF reserve ratio to required levels. Also in 2009, the FDIC amended the assessment regulations to require insured financial institutions to prepay their estimated deposit insurance premiums for 2010, 2011 and 2012.







In February 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that: changed the assessment base from
adjusted domestic deposits to a bank’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity (defined as Tier 1 capital); adopted a new large-bank pricing assessment scheme; and set a target size for the DIF at 2% of insured deposits.
The rule, which was effective beginning with the quarterly assessment period ending June 30, 2011, also (i) implemented a lower assessment rate schedule when the DIF reaches 1.15 percent and, in lieu of dividends, provides for a lower rate
schedule when the reserve ratio reaches 2 percent and 2.5 percent and (ii) created a scorecard-based assessment system for financial institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, including People’s United Bank.

One of the financial ratios used in the scorecard-based assessment system for financial institutions with more than $10 billion in assets
is the ratio of “higher-risk” assets to Tier 1 capital and reserves. In October 2012, the FDIC adopted a final rule that revises the definitions of higher-risk commercial and industrial loans, securities and consumer loans and clarifies
when an asset must be classified as higher risk. This rule is generally effective on April 1, 2013.

In addition, all
FDIC-insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC at an annual rate of approximately 0.0064% of insured deposits to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, an agency of the federal government
established to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature between 2017 and 2019.

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may terminate the insurance of an institution’s deposits upon a finding that the
institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC.

Transactions with Affiliates.Federal savings banks are subject to the affiliate and insider transaction rules set forth in
Sections 23A, 23B, 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, and their implementing regulations, Regulation W and Regulation O, issued by the FRB. Affiliated transaction provisions, among other things, prohibit or limit a federal savings bank from
extending credit to, or entering into certain transactions with, its affiliates and principal stockholders, directors and executive officers.

In addition, Section 11 of the HOLA prohibits a savings bank from making a loan to an affiliate that is engaged in non-bank holding company activities and prohibits a savings bank from purchasing or
investing in securities issued by an affiliate that is not a subsidiary. The FRB and the OCC require each depository institution that is subject to the affiliate transaction restrictions of Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act to
implement policies and procedures to ensure compliance with Regulation W.

In addition to the insider transaction limitations
of Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the extension of personal loans to directors and executive officers of issuers (as defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act). The
prohibition, however, does not apply to mortgage loans advanced by an insured depository institution, such as People’s United Bank, that are subject to the insider lending restrictions of Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act.

Privacy Standards.People’s United Bank is subject to OCC regulations implementing statutorily-mandated privacy
protection. These regulations require People’s United Bank to disclose its privacy policy, including identifying with whom it shares “non-public personal information,” to customers at the time of establishing the customer relationship
and annually thereafter. In addition, People’s United Bank is required to provide its customers with the ability to “opt-out” of having People’s United Bank share their non-public personal information with unaffiliated third
parties before the bank can disclose such information, subject to certain exceptions.







In addition to certain state laws governing protection of customer information,
People’s United Bank is subject to federal regulatory guidelines establishing standards for safeguarding customer information. The guidelines describe the agencies’ expectations for the creation, implementation and maintenance of an
information security program, which would include administrative, technical and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The standards set forth in the guidelines are
intended to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such records and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such
records or information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. Federal guidelines also impose certain customer disclosures and other actions in the event of unauthorized access to customer information.

Community Reinvestment Act.Under the Community Reinvestment Act, as implemented by the OCC regulations, any federally chartered
savings bank, including People’s United Bank, has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The
Community Reinvestment Act does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to
its particular community. The Community Reinvestment Act requires the OCC, in connection with its examination of a federally chartered savings bank, to assess the depository institution’s record of meeting the credit needs of its community and
to take such record into account in its evaluation of certain applications by such institution.

Current Community
Reinvestment Act regulations rate an institution based on its actual performance in meeting community needs. In particular, the evaluation system focuses on three tests:



•a lending test, to evaluate the institution’s record of making loans in its service areas;



•an investment test, to evaluate the institution’s record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs
benefiting low or moderate income individuals and businesses; and



•a service test, to evaluate the institution’s delivery of services through its branches, ATMs and other offices.

The Community Reinvestment Act also requires all institutions to make public disclosure of their Community Reinvestment Act ratings.
People’s United Bank received an “outstanding” rating in its most recent Community Reinvestment Act examination performed by the OTS in 2009. The federal banking agencies adopted regulations implementing the requirements under the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act that insured depository institutions publicly disclose certain agreements that are in fulfillment of the Community Reinvestment Act. People’s United Bank has no such agreements in place at this time.

Loans to One Borrower.Under the HOLA, savings banks are generally subject to the national bank limits on loans to one borrower.
Generally, savings banks may not make a loan or extend credit, including credit associated with derivatives and securities financing transactions, to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of the institution’s unimpaired
capital and surplus. Additional amounts may be loaned, not in excess of 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if such loans or extensions of credit are secured by readily-marketable collateral. People’s United Bank is in compliance with
applicable loans to one borrower limitations.

Nontraditional Mortgage Products.The federal banking agencies have
issued guidance for institutions that originate or service nontraditional or alternative mortgage products, defined to include all residential mortgage loan products that allow borrowers to defer repayment on principal or interest, such as
interest-only mortgages and payment option adjustable-rate mortgages. A portion of People’s United Bank’s adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans represent interest-only residential mortgage loans, however, none of these loans permit
negative amortization or optional payment amounts.







Recognizing that alternative mortgage products expose institutions to increased risks as
compared to traditional loans where payments amortize or reduce the principal amount, the guidance requires increased scrutiny for alternative mortgage products. Institutions that originate or service alternative mortgages should have:
(i) strong risk management practices that include maintenance of capital levels and allowance for loan losses commensurate with the risk; (ii) prudent lending policies and underwriting standards that address a borrower’s repayment
capacity; and (iii) programs and practices designed to ensure that consumers receive clear and balanced information to assist in making informed decisions about mortgage products. The guidance also recommends heightened controls and safeguards
when an institution combines an alternative mortgage product with features that compound risk, such as a simultaneous second-lien or the use of reduced documentation to evaluate a loan application. People’s United Bank complies with the
guidance on non-traditional mortgage products as it is interpreted and applied by the OCC.

Qualified Thrift Lender
Test.The HOLA requires federal savings banks to meet a Qualified Thrift Lender (“QTL”) test. Under the QTL test, a savings bank is required to maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” (total assets less:
(i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets; (ii) intangibles, including goodwill; and (iii) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily residential
mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities, credit card loans, student loans and small business loans) on a monthly basis during at least 9 out of every 12 months.

A savings bank that fails the QTL test will be deemed to have violated Section 5 of the HOLA and be subject to enforcement action
under Section 5(d) of the HOLA. In addition, a savings bank that fails the QTL test generally will be prohibited from: (i) engaging in any new activity not permissible for a national bank; (ii) paying dividends without prior approval
from the OCC and the FRB (the payment of such dividend must also be permissible under national bank regulations); and (iii) establishing any new branch office in a location not permissible for a national bank in the institution’s home
state. In addition, the institution may have to repay any outstanding advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (the “FHLB”) as promptly as possible. At December 31, 2012, People’s United Bank was in compliance with the QTL test.

Limitation on Capital Distributions.The OCC regulates capital distributions by People’s United Bank directly or
indirectly to People’s United Financial, including cash dividend payments. OCC regulations impose limitations upon capital distributions by federal savings banks, such as certain cash dividends, payments to repurchase or otherwise acquire its
shares, payments to stockholders of another institution in a cash-out merger and other distributions charged against capital. In addition, the DFA has imposed a requirement that a federal savings bank that is a subsidiary of a savings and loan
holding company must notify the FRB at least 30 days prior to making any cash dividend payment to its parent. An informational copy of this notice is also provided to the federal savings bank’s primary federal regulator, which in the case of
People’s United Bank is the OCC.

The FRB will consult with the institution’s primary federal regulator in
determining whether to disapprove the proposed dividend. FRB regulations state that it may disapprove the proposed dividend if: (i) the federal savings bank will be less than adequately capitalized following payment of the proposed dividend;
(ii) the proposed dividend raises safety or soundness concerns; or (iii) the proposed dividend would violate a prohibition contained in any statute, regulation, enforcement action, or agreement among or between the savings bank, its parent
and a federal banking agency; a condition imposed on the savings association or its parent in an application or notice approved by an appropriate federal banking agency; or any formal or informal enforcement action involving the federal savings bank
or its parent.







OCC regulations provide that a federal savings bank must file an application with the OCC if
the total amount of all its capital distributions (including the proposed capital distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds the federal savings bank’s net income for that year plus its retained net income for the preceding two
years. People’s United Bank may not pay dividends to People’s United Financial if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage and tangible
capital ratio requirements or if the OCC notified People’s United Bank that it was in need of more than normal supervision. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, an insured depository institution, such as People’s United Bank, is
prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution, the institution would become “undercapitalized” (as such term is used in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act). Payment of
dividends by People’s United Bank also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the appropriate regulator if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe and unsound banking practice. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for a further discussion on capital distributions.

Liquidity.People’s United Bank maintains
sufficient liquidity to ensure its safe and sound operation, in accordance with applicable OCC regulations.

Assessments.The OCC charges assessments to recover the cost of examining federal savings banks and their affiliates. These
assessments are based on three components: (i) the size of the institution on which the basic assessment is based; (ii) the institution’s supervisory condition, which results in an additional assessment based on a percentage of the
basic assessment for any savings institution with a composite rating of 3, 4 or 5 in its most recent safety and soundness examination; and (iii) the complexity of the institution’s operations, which results in an additional assessment
based on a percentage of the basic assessment for any savings institution that managed over $1 billion in trust assets, serviced for others loans aggregating more than $1 billion, or had certain off-balance sheet assets aggregating more than $1
billion.

Branching.Under OCC branching regulations, People’s United Bank is generally authorized to open
branches nationwide if People’s United Bank (i) continues to meet the requirements of a “highly-rated” federal savings bank and (ii) publishes public notice at least 35 days before opening a branch and no one opposes the
branch. If a comment in opposition to a branch opening is filed and the OCC determines that the comment is relevant to the approval process standards and requires action in response, the OCC may, among other things, require a branch application or
elect to hold a meeting with People’s United Bank and the person who submitted the comment. OCC authority preempts any state law purporting to regulate branching by federal savings banks.

Anti-Money Laundering and Customer Identification.People’s United Bank is subject to OCC and Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network regulations implementing the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act. The USA PATRIOT Act gives the federal government powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers,
increased information sharing and broadened anti-money laundering requirements. By way of amendments to the Bank Secrecy Act, Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act takes measures intended to encourage information sharing among banks, regulatory agencies
and law enforcement bodies. Further, certain provisions of Title III impose affirmative reporting obligations on a broad range of financial institutions, including savings banks like People’s United Bank.

Federal Home Loan Bank System.People’s United Bank is a member of the FHLB system, which consists of twelve regional Federal
Home Loan Banks, each subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The FHLB system provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions as well as other entities involved in home mortgage lending. It
is funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated obligations of the Federal Home Loan Banks. It makes loans or advances to members in accordance with policies and procedures, including collateral requirements, established by
the respective boards of directors of the Federal Home Loan Banks. These policies and procedures are subject to the regulation and oversight of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which has also established standards of community or investment
service that members must meet to maintain access to long-term advances.







People’s United Bank, as a member of the FHLB of Boston, is currently required to
purchase and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB of Boston in an amount equal to 0.35% of People’s United Bank’s Membership Stock Investment Base plus an Activity Based Stock Investment Requirement. The Activity Based Stock Investment
Requirement is equal to 3.0% of any outstanding principal for overnight advances, 4.0% of any outstanding principal for term advances with an original term of two days to three months and 4.5% of any outstanding principal for term advances with an
original term greater than three months. People’s United Bank is in compliance with these requirements. As a result of its acquisition of the Bank of Smithtown in 2010, People’s United Bank also holds shares of capital stock in the FHLB of
New York.

Federal Reserve System.FRB regulations require federally chartered savings banks to maintain
non-interest-earning cash reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily negotiable order of withdrawal and demand deposit accounts). Institutions must maintain a reserve of 3% against aggregate transaction account balances between $12.4
million and $79.5 million (subject to adjustment by the FRB) plus a reserve of 10% (subject to adjustment by the FRB within specific limits) against that portion of total transaction account balances in excess of $79.5 million. The first $12.4
million of otherwise reservable balances is exempt from the reserve requirements. People’s United Bank is in compliance with the foregoing requirements. The required reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash, or an interest-bearing
account at a Federal Reserve Bank, or a pass-through account as defined by the Federal Reserve Board.

Market Area and Competition

People’s United Financial’s primary market areas are New England and southeastern New York, with Connecticut,
Massachusetts, New York and Vermont having the largest concentration of its loans, deposits and branches. At December 31, 2012, approximately 31%, 18%, 13% and 8% of the Company’s loans by outstanding principal amount were to customers
located within Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York and Vermont, respectively. Loans to customers located in the New England states as a group represented approximately 68% of total loans at December 31, 2012. However, substantially all of the
equipment financing portfolio (approximately 97% at December 31, 2012) was to customers located outside of New England. At December 31, 2012, approximately 32% of the equipment financing portfolio was to customers located in Texas,
California and New York and no other state exposure was greater than 6%. As of June 30, 2012, People’s United Financial had: (i) the largest market share of deposits in Fairfield County, Connecticut; (ii) the third largest
in the state of Connecticut; and (iii) the largest in the state of Vermont. People’s United Financial competes for deposits, loans and financial services with commercial banks, savings institutions, commercial and consumer finance
companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, credit unions and a variety of other institutional lenders and securities firms.

As People’s United Financial’s predominant market, Connecticut is one of the most attractive banking markets in the United States. With a total population of approximately 3.6 million and a
median household income of $65,386, Connecticut ranks third in the United States, well above the U.S. median household income of $50,227, according to the 2010 Census and SNL Financial. Fairfield County, where People’s United Financial is
headquartered, has the highest median household income in Connecticut of $80,531 according to the 2010 Census and SNL Financial. The median household income in Massachusetts, which has the Company’s third highest concentration of branches, was
$62,098, according to the 2010 Census and SNL Financial. The median household income in Vermont, which has the Company’s fourth highest concentration of branches, was $50,558 according to the 2010 Census and SNL Financial, comparable to the
national level.







The principal basis of competition for deposits is the interest rate paid for those deposits
and related fees, the convenience of access to services through traditional and non-traditional delivery alternatives, and the quality of services to customers. The principal basis of competition for loans is through the interest rates and loan fees
charged and the development of relationships based on the efficiency, convenience and quality of services provided to borrowers. Further competition has been created through the rapid acceleration of commerce conducted over the Internet. This has
enabled institutions, including People’s United Financial, to compete in markets outside their traditional geographic boundaries.

Personnel

As of
December 31, 2012, People’s United Financial had 4,847 full-time and 595 part-time employees.

Access to Information

As a public company, People’s United Financial is subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act, as
amended and, in accordance therewith, files reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy and information statements and other information can be inspected and copied at prescribed rates at the
public reference room maintained by the SEC at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 and are available on the SEC’s EDGAR database on the internet at www.sec.gov. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public
reference room. People’s United Financial’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “PBCT”.

Copies of many of these reports are also available through People’s United Financial’s website at www.peoples.com.

People’s United Financial currently provides website access to the following reports:

Form 10-K (most recent filing and any related amendments)

Form 10-Q (four most
recent filings and any related amendments)

Form 8-K (all filings in most recent 12 months and any related amendments)

Annual Report to Shareholders (two most recent years)

Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders (two most recent years)

XBRL
Interactive Data (most recent 12 months)







