Item 1.Business

General

People’s United Financial, Inc. (“People’s United Financial”) is a savings and loan holding company incorporated under
the state laws of Delaware and the holding company for People’s United Bank. On April 16, 2007, People’s United Financial, People’s United Bank and People’s Mutual Holdings completed their second-step conversion from a
mutual holding company structure to a fully-public stock holding company structure. People’s United Bank is a federally-chartered stock savings bank headquartered in Bridgeport, Connecticut.

On November 30, 2010, People’s United Financial completed its acquisitions of Smithtown Bancorp, Inc. (“Smithtown”)
based in Hauppauge, New York and LSB Corporation (“LSB”) based in North Andover, Massachusetts. On April 16, 2010, People’s United Bank entered into a definitive purchase and assumption agreement with the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) pursuant to which People’s United Bank assumed all of the deposits, certain assets and the banking operations of Butler Bank, located in Lowell, Massachusetts. On February 19, 2010,
People’s United Financial completed its acquisition of Financial Federal Corporation (“Financial Federal”), a financial services company providing collateralized lending, financing and leasing services nationwide to small and medium
sized businesses. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed in these transactions were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the respective closing dates and People’s United Financial’s results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2010 include the results of these companies beginning with the respective closing dates. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of these acquisitions.

On January 1, 2008, People’s United Financial completed its acquisition of Chittenden Corporation (“Chittenden”), a
multi-bank holding company headquartered in Burlington, Vermont. On January 1, 2009, the separate bank charters of the six former Chittenden banks, all previously wholly-owned subsidiaries of People’s United Bank, were consolidated into
People’s United Bank, where they continued to operate as divisions of People’s United Bank. In June 2010, People’s United Financial announced a plan to “re-brand”, as People’s United Bank, the former Chittenden banks in
connection with the scheduled completion of its core system conversion in July 2010. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of this acquisition.

The principal business of People’s United Financial is to provide, through People’s United Bank and its subsidiaries,
commercial banking, retail and business banking, and wealth management services to individual, corporate and municipal customers. Traditional banking activities are conducted primarily within New England and New York, and include extending secured
and unsecured commercial and consumer loans, originating mortgage loans secured by residential and commercial properties, and accepting consumer, commercial and municipal deposits. In addition to traditional banking activities, People’s United
Bank provides specialized financial services tailored to specific markets including: personal, institutional and employee benefit trust; cash management; and municipal banking and finance. Through its non-banking subsidiaries, People’s United
Bank offers: brokerage, financial advisory services, investment management services and life insurance through People’s Securities, Inc. (“PSI”); equipment financing through People’s Capital and Leasing Corp. (“PCLC”)
and People’s United Equipment Finance Corp. (“PUEFC”); and other insurance services through People’s United Insurance Agency, Inc.

This full range of financial services is delivered through a network of nearly 340 branches located in Connecticut, Vermont, New York, New Hampshire, Maine and Massachusetts, including 84 full-service
Stop & Shop supermarket branches throughout Connecticut that provide customers with seven-day-a-week banking. People’s United Bank’s distribution network includes investment and brokerage offices, commercial banking offices,
online banking and investment trading, a 24-hour telephone banking service and participation in a worldwide ATM network. PCLC and PUEFC maintain a sales presence in 11 states to support equipment financing operations throughout the United States.
Within the Commercial Banking division, People’s United Bank maintains a national credits group, which has participated in commercial loans and commercial real estate loans to borrowers in various industries on a national scale.






People’s United Financial’s operations are divided into three primary business
segments that represent its core businesses: Commercial Banking, Retail and Business Banking, and Wealth Management. Commercial Banking consists principally of commercial and industrial lending, commercial real estate lending and commercial deposit
gathering activities. This segment also includes the equipment financing operations of PCLC and PUEFC, as well as cash management, correspondent banking and municipal banking. Retail and Business Banking includes, as its principal business lines,
consumer and business deposit gathering activities, consumer lending (including residential mortgage, home equity and indirect auto lending), business lending and merchant services. Wealth Management consists of trust services, corporate trust,
brokerage, financial advisory services, investment management services and life insurance provided by PSI, other insurance services provided through People’s United Insurance Agency, Inc. and private banking. In addition, the Treasury area
manages People’s United Financial’s securities portfolio, short-term investments and securities resale agreements, and wholesale borrowings.

Further discussion of People’s United Financial’s business and operations appears on pages 23 through 82.

Supervision and Regulation—People’s United Financial

Federal Holding Company
Regulation

People’s United Financial is a savings and loan holding company within the meaning of the Home
Owners’ Loan Act. As such, People’s United Financial is regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision (the “OTS”) and subject to OTS examination, supervision and reporting requirements. In addition, the OTS has enforcement
authority over People’s United Financial and People’s United Bank. Among other things, this authority permits the OTS to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to the subsidiary savings bank.

Activities Restrictions Applicable to Savings and Loan Holding Companies.Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the activities
of all savings and loan holding companies formed after May 4, 1999, such as People’s United Financial, must be financially related activities permissible for bank holding companies, as defined under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Accordingly,
People’s United Financial’s activities are restricted to:



•furnishing or performing management services for a savings institution subsidiary;



•conducting an insurance agency or escrow business;



•holding, managing, or liquidating assets owned or acquired from a savings institution subsidiary;



•holding or managing properties used or occupied by a savings institution subsidiary;



•acting as trustee under a deed of trust;



•any other activity (1) that the Federal Reserve Board, by regulation, has determined to be permissible for bank holding companies under
Section 4(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, unless the Director of the OTS, by regulation, prohibits or limits any such activity for savings and loan holding companies, or (2) that multiple savings and loan holding companies were
authorized by regulation to directly engage in on March 5, 1987;



•purchasing, holding, or disposing of stock acquired in connection with a qualified stock issuance if the purchase of such stock is approved by the
Director of the OTS; and



•any activity permissible for financial holding companies under Section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act.






Permissible activities that are deemed to be financial in nature or incidental thereto under
Section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act include:



•lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or safeguarding money or securities;



•insurance activities or providing and issuing annuities, and acting as principal, agent, or broker;



•financial, investment, or economic advisory services;



•issuing or selling instruments representing interests in pools of assets that a bank is permitted to hold directly;



•underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities;



•activities previously determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be closely related to banking;



•activities that bank holding companies are permitted to engage in outside of the United States; and



•portfolio investments made by an insurance company.

In addition, People’s United Financial cannot be acquired or acquire a company unless the acquirer or target, as applicable, is engaged solely in financial activities.

Restrictions Applicable to All Savings and Loan Holding Companies.Federal law prohibits a savings and loan holding
company, including People’s United Financial, directly or indirectly, from acquiring:



•control (as defined under the Home Owners’ Loan Act) of another savings bank (or a holding company parent) without prior OTS approval;



•through merger, consolidation or purchase of assets, another savings bank or a holding company thereof, or acquiring all or substantially all of the
assets of such institution or holding company without prior OTS approval; or



•control of any depository institution not insured by the FDIC (except through a merger with and into the holding company’s savings bank subsidiary
that is approved by the OTS).

The Home Owners’ Loan Act prohibits a savings and loan holding company
(directly or indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries) from acquiring another savings bank or holding company thereof without prior written approval of the OTS; acquiring or retaining, with certain exceptions, more than 5% of a non-subsidiary
savings bank, a non-subsidiary holding company, or a non-subsidiary company engaged in activities other than those permitted by the Home Owners’ Loan Act; or acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not federally
insured. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings banks, the OTS must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk
to the Deposit Insurance Fund, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors.

Federal Securities Law

People’s United Financial’s common stock is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. People’s United Financial is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, and other requirements and restrictions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Delaware Corporation Law

People’s United Financial is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, and is therefore subject to regulation by the
state of Delaware. The rights of People’s United Financial’s stockholders are governed by the Delaware General Corporation Law.






Supervision and Regulation—People’s United Bank

General

People’s
United Bank has been a federally chartered savings bank since August 18, 2006 when it converted from a Connecticut chartered savings bank. Its deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC under the Deposit Insurance Fund
(the “DIF”). Under its charter, People’s United Bank is subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by the OTS as its chartering agency, and by the FDIC as the deposit insurer. People’s United Bank files reports
with the OTS concerning its activities and financial condition, and must obtain regulatory approval from the OTS prior to entering into certain transactions, such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other depository institutions. The OTS conducts
periodic examinations to assess compliance with various regulatory requirements. The OTS has primary enforcement responsibility over federally chartered savings banks and has substantial discretion to impose enforcement action on a savings bank that
fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, particularly with respect to capital requirements imposed on savings banks. In addition, the FDIC has the authority to recommend to the Director of the OTS that enforcement action be taken
with respect to a particular federally chartered savings bank and, if action is not taken by the Director, the FDIC has authority to take such action under certain circumstances.

This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which a federal savings bank can engage and is
intended primarily for the protection of the DIF and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including
policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such laws and regulations or interpretations thereof, whether by the OTS, the FDIC or through
legislation, could have a material adverse impact on People’s United Bank and its operations.

People’s United
Bank’s brokerage subsidiary, PSI, is regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators. People’s United Insurance Agency, Inc. is subject to regulation by applicable state insurance
regulators.

Federally Chartered Savings Bank Regulation

Activity Powers.Federal savings banks derive their lending, investment and other activity powers primarily from the Home Owners’ Loan Act, as amended, and the regulations of the
OTS thereunder. Under these laws and regulations, federal savings banks generally may invest in:



•real estate mortgages;



•consumer and commercial loans;



•certain types of debt securities; and



•certain other assets.

Federal savings banks may also establish service corporations that may, subject to applicable limitations, engage in activities not otherwise permissible for federal savings banks, including certain real
estate equity investments and securities and insurance brokerage activities. People’s United Bank’s investment powers are subject to various limitations, including (1) a prohibition against the acquisition of any corporate debt
security that is not rated in one of the four highest rating categories; (2) a limit of 400% of a savings bank’s capital on the aggregate amount of loans secured by non-residential real estate property; (3) a limit of 20% of a savings
bank’s assets on commercial loans, with the amount of commercial loans in excess of 10% of assets being limited to small business loans; (4) a limit of 35% of a savings bank’s assets on the aggregate amount of consumer loans and
acquisitions of certain debt securities, with amounts in excess of 30% of assets being limited to loans made directly to the original obligor and where no third-party finder or referral fees were paid; (5) a limit of 5% of assets on
non-conforming loans (residential and farm loans in excess of the specific limitations of the Home






Owners’ Loan Act); and (6) a limit of the greater of 5% of assets or a savings bank’s capital on certain construction loans made for the purpose of financing what is or is expected
to become residential property. In connection with People’s United Bank’s conversion to a federal savings bank in August 2006, the OTS granted People’s United Bank a phase-in period to comply with the Home Owners’ Loan Act’s
commercial loan limits. This phase-in period expired on January 1, 2011, and People’s United Bank is now subject to commercial loan limits imposed under the Home Owners’ Loan Act.

Capital Requirements.The OTS capital regulations require federally chartered savings banks to meet three minimum capital
ratios:



•Tangible Capital Ratio—A 1.5% tangible capital ratio, calculated as tangible capital to adjusted total assets.



•Leverage (Core) Capital Ratio—A 4% leverage (core) capital ratio, calculated as core capital to adjusted total assets. The minimum leverage
(core) capital ratio is reduced to 3% if the savings bank received the highest rating on its most recent safety and soundness examination.



•Risk-Based Capital Ratio—An 8% total risk-based capital ratio, calculated as total capital to risk-weighted assets. For purposes of this
calculation, total capital includes core and supplementary capital, provided that supplementary capital may not exceed 100% of core capital.

In assessing an institution’s capital adequacy, the OTS takes into consideration not only these numeric factors but also qualitative factors as well, and has the authority to establish higher capital
requirements for individual institutions where necessary. People’s United Bank, as a matter of prudent management, targets as its goal the maintenance of capital ratios which exceed these minimum requirements and that are consistent with
People’s United Bank’s risk profile. At December 31, 2010, People’s United Bank exceeded each of its capital requirements. See Regulatory Capital Requirements on pages 78 and 79 for a further discussion regarding People’s
United Bank’s capital requirements.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act requires that the OTS and
other federal banking agencies revise their risk-based capital standards, with appropriate transition rules, to ensure that they take into account interest rate risk, concentration risk and the risks of non-traditional activities. The OTS monitors
the interest rate risk of individual institutions through the OTS requirements for interest rate risk management, the ability of the OTS to impose individual minimum capital requirements on institutions that exhibit a high degree of interest rate
risk, and the requirements of Thrift Bulletin 13a, which provides guidance on the management of interest rate risk and the responsibility of boards of directors in that area.

The OTS continues to monitor the interest rate risk of individual institutions through analysis of the change in net portfolio value. Net portfolio value is defined as the net present value of the
expected future cash flows of an entity’s assets and liabilities and, therefore, hypothetically represents the value of an institution’s net worth. The OTS has also used this net portfolio value analysis as part of its evaluation of
certain applications or notices submitted by savings banks. The OTS, through its general oversight of the safety and soundness of savings associations, retains the right to impose minimum capital requirements on individual institutions to the extent
the institution is not in compliance with certain written guidelines established by the OTS regarding net portfolio value analysis. The OTS has not imposed any such requirements on People’s United Bank.

Safety and Soundness Standards.Pursuant to the requirements of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act,
as amended by the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, each federal banking agency, including the OTS, has adopted guidelines establishing general standards relating to internal controls, information and internal
audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to
identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or
disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director, or principal stockholder.






In addition, the OTS adopted regulations to require a savings bank that is given notice by
the OTS that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan to the OTS. If, after being so notified, a savings bank fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to
implement an accepted compliance plan, the OTS may issue an order directing corrective and other actions of the types to which a significantly undercapitalized institution is subject under the “prompt corrective action” provisions of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act. If a savings bank fails to comply with such an order, the OTS may seek to enforce the order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil monetary penalties.

Prompt Corrective Action.



•an amount equal to 5% of the bank’s total assets at the time it became “undercapitalized”; and



•the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the bank into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to
such bank as of the time it fails to comply with a capital restoration plan.

If a bank fails to submit an
acceptable plan, it is treated as if it were “significantly undercapitalized.” Banks that are significantly or critically undercapitalized are subject to a wider range of regulatory requirements and restrictions. Under OTS regulations,
generally, a federal savings bank is treated as “well-capitalized” if its total risk-based capital ratio is 10% or greater, its Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio is 6% or greater, and its leverage ratio is 5% or greater, and it is not
subject to any order or directive by the OTS to meet a specific capital level. As of December 31, 2010, People’s United Bank’s regulatory capital ratios exceeded the OTS’s numeric criteria for classification as a
“well-capitalized” institution.

Insurance Activities.Federal savings banks are generally permitted
to engage in certain insurance and annuity activities through its subsidiaries. However, federal banking laws prohibit depository institutions from conditioning the extension of credit to individuals upon either the purchase of an insurance product
or annuity from an entity affiliated with the depository institution or an agreement by the consumer not to purchase an insurance product or annuity from an entity that is not affiliated with the depository institution. Applicable regulations also
require prior disclosure of this prohibition to potential insurance product or annuity customers.

Federal banking agencies,
including the OTS, also require depository institutions that offer non-deposit investment products, such as certain annuity and related insurance products, to disclose to the consumer that the products are not federally insured, are not guaranteed
by the institution and are subject to investment risk including possible loss of principal. These disclosure requirements apply if the institution offers the non-deposit investment products directly or through affiliates or subsidiaries.

Deposit Insurance.People’s United Bank is a member of, and pays its deposit insurance assessments to, the DIF.






Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act, the FDIC established
a system for setting deposit insurance premiums based upon the risks a particular bank or savings association posed to its deposit insurance fund. Effective January 1, 2007, the FDIC established a risk-based assessment system for determining
the deposit insurance assessments to be paid by insured depository institutions. Under the assessment system, the FDIC assigns an institution to one of four risk categories, with the first category having two sub-categories based on the
institution’s most recent supervisory and capital evaluations, designed to measure risk. Historically, assessment rates have ranged from 0.05% of deposits for an institution in the highest sub-category of the highest category to 0.43% of
deposits for an institution in the lowest category. The FDIC is authorized to raise the assessment rates as necessary to maintain the required reserve ratio of 1.25%.

Current economic conditions have resulted in an increased number of bank failures and, consequently, greater use of DIF resources. In response, the FDIC authorized higher premium assessments in 2009
pursuant to a restoration plan designed to increase the DIF reserve ratio to required levels. Under the FDIC’s restoration plan, the premium assessment rate was raised uniformly by seven basis points beginning on January 1, 2009 resulting
in an initial base assessment rate of 12 basis points for People’s United Bank. Furthermore, the premium assessment rate in effect beginning April 1, 2009 was subject to adjustments based on each institution’s risk profile, which
could affect its initial base assessment rate.

On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposed a special
assessment of 5 basis points on each insured financial institution’s total assets less Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC adopted a plan that extended the DIF restoration plan from seven years to eight
years and on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that amended the assessment regulations to require insured financial institutions to prepay, on December 30, 2009, their estimated deposit insurance premiums for 2010, 2011 and
2012. Under this rule, which did not include any additional special assessments, the prepayment was based on an assumed 5% annual growth rate in each institution’s insured deposits (the assessment base) and an assumed increase of three basis
points in each institution’s premium assessment rate beginning in 2011.

In February 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule
which: changes the assessment base from adjusted domestic deposits to a bank’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity (defined as Tier 1 capital); adopts a new large-bank pricing assessment scheme; and sets a target
size for the DIF at 2% of insured deposits. The rule, which is effective June 30, 2011, also (i) implements a lower assessment rate schedule when the DIF reaches 1.15 percent and, in lieu of dividends, provides for a lower rate schedule when
the reserve ratio reaches 2 percent and 2.5 percent and (ii) creates a scorecard-based assessment system for financial institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, including People’s United Bank.

In addition, all FDIC-insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC at an annual rate of approximately 0.0102% of
insured deposits to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, an agency of the federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. These assessments will continue until
the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2017 through 2019.

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may terminate
the insurance of an institution’s deposits upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order
or condition imposed by the FDIC.

Transactions with Affiliates.Federal savings banks are subject to the
affiliate and insider transaction rules set forth in Sections 23A, 23B, 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, as well as additional limitations as adopted by the Director of the OTS. The OTS regulations regarding transactions with affiliates
and insider transactions generally conform to Regulation W and Regulation O, respectively, issued by the Federal Reserve Board. Affiliated transactions provisions, among other things, prohibit or limit a savings bank from extending credit to, or
entering into certain transactions with, its affiliates and principal stockholders, directors and executive officers of the federal savings bank.






In addition, Section 11 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act prohibits a savings bank from
making a loan to an affiliate that is engaged in non-bank holding company activities and prohibits a savings bank from purchasing or investing in securities issued by an affiliate that is not a subsidiary. OTS regulations also include certain
specific exemptions from these prohibitions. The Federal Reserve Board and the OTS require each depository institution that is subject to the affiliate transaction restrictions of Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act to implement policies
and procedures to ensure compliance with Regulation W and the OTS regulations regarding transactions with affiliates.

In
addition to the insider transaction limitations of Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the extension of personal loans to directors and executive officers of issuers (as
defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act). The prohibition, however, does not apply to mortgage loans advanced by an insured depository institution, such as People’s United Bank, that are subject to the insider lending restrictions of
Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act.

Privacy Standards.People’s United Bank is subject to OTS
regulations implementing the privacy protection provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. These regulations require People’s United Bank to disclose its privacy policy, including identifying with whom it shares “non-public personal
information,” to customers at the time of establishing the customer relationship and annually thereafter. In addition, People’s United Bank is required to provide its customers with the ability to “opt-out” of having
People’s United Bank share their non-public personal information with unaffiliated third parties before the bank can disclose such information, subject to certain exceptions.

In addition to certain state laws governing protection of customer information, People’s United Bank is subject to federal
regulatory guidelines establishing standards for safeguarding customer information. These regulations implement certain provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The guidelines describe the agencies’ expectations for the creation,
implementation and maintenance of an information security program, which would include administrative, technical and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The
standards set forth in the guidelines are intended to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such records and protect against
unauthorized access to or use of such records or information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. Federal guidelines also impose certain customer disclosures and other actions in the event of unauthorized access to
customer information.

Community Reinvestment Act.Under the Community Reinvestment Act, as implemented by the
OTS regulations, any federally chartered savings bank, including People’s United Bank, has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low
and moderate income neighborhoods. The Community Reinvestment Act does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and
services that it believes are best suited to its particular community. The Community Reinvestment Act requires the OTS, in connection with its examination of a federally chartered savings bank, to assess the depository institution’s record of
meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such record into account in its evaluation of certain applications by such institution.

Current Community Reinvestment Act regulations rate an institution based on its actual performance in meeting community needs. In particular, the evaluation system focuses on three tests:



•a lending test, to evaluate the institution’s record of making loans in its service areas;



•an investment test, to evaluate the institution’s record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs
benefiting low or moderate income individuals and businesses; and



•a service test, to evaluate the institution’s delivery of services through its branches, ATMs and other offices.






The Community Reinvestment Act also requires all institutions to make public disclosure of
their Community Reinvestment Act ratings. People’s United Bank has received an “outstanding” rating in its most recent Community Reinvestment Act examination performed by the OTS in 2009. The federal banking agencies adopted
regulations implementing the requirements under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act that insured depository institutions publicly disclose certain agreements that are in fulfillment of the Community Reinvestment Act. People’s United Bank has no such
agreements in place at this time.

Loans to One Borrower.Under the Home Owners’ Loan Act, savings banks
are generally subject to the national bank limits on loans to one borrower. Generally, savings banks may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of the institution’s unimpaired capital and
surplus. Additional amounts may be loaned, not in excess of 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if such loans or extensions of credit are secured by readily-marketable collateral. People’s United Bank is in compliance with applicable loans
to one borrower limitations.

Nontraditional Mortgage Products.The federal banking agencies have issued
guidance for institutions that originate or service nontraditional or alternative mortgage products, defined to include all residential mortgage loan products that allow borrowers to defer repayment on principal or interest, such as interest-only
mortgages and payment option adjustable-rate mortgages. A portion of People’s United Bank’s adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans represent interest-only residential mortgage loans, however, none of these loans permit negative
amortization or optional payment amounts.

Recognizing that alternative mortgage products expose institutions to increased
risks as compared to traditional loans where payments amortize or reduce the principal amount, the guidance required increased scrutiny for alternative mortgage products. Institutions that originate or service alternative mortgages should have:
(i) strong risk management practices that include maintenance of capital levels and allowance for loan losses commensurate with the risk; (ii) prudent lending policies and underwriting standards that address a borrower’s repayment
capacity; and (iii) programs and practices designed to ensure that consumers receive clear and balanced information to assist in making informed decisions about mortgage products. The guidance also recommends heightened controls and safeguards
when an institution combines an alternative mortgage product with features that compound risk, such as a simultaneous second-lien or the use of reduced documentation to evaluate a loan application. People’s United Bank complies with the
guidance on non-traditional mortgage products as it is interpreted and applied by the OTS.

Qualified Thrift Lender
Test.The Home Owners’ Loan Act requires federal savings banks to meet a Qualified Thrift Lender test. Under the Qualified Thrift Lender test, a savings bank is required to maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets”
(total assets less: (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets; (ii) intangibles, including goodwill; and (iii) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily
residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities, credit card loans, student loans, and small business loans) on a monthly basis during at least 9 out of every 12 months. The OTS granted People’s
United Bank an exception from the Qualified Thrift Lender test for a period of four years from the date of its conversion to a federal charter (August 18, 2006).

A savings bank that fails the Qualified Thrift Lender test will be deemed to have violated Section 5 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act and be subject to enforcement action under Section 5(d) of the Home
Owners’ Loan Act. In addition, a savings bank that fails the Qualified Thrift Lender test generally will be prohibited from: (i) engaging in any new activity not permissible for a national bank; (ii) paying dividends without prior
approval from the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board; such dividends must also be permissible under national bank regulations; and (iii) establishing any new branch office in a location not permissible for a national bank
in the institution’s home state. In addition, the institution may have to repay any outstanding advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank as promptly as possible. At December 31, 2010, People’s United Bank was in compliance with the
Qualified Thrift Lender test.








Limitation on Capital Distributions.The OTS regulations impose limitations
upon certain capital distributions by Federal savings banks, such as certain cash dividends, payments to repurchase or otherwise acquire its shares, payments to stockholders of another institution in a cash out merger and other distributions charged
against capital.

The OTS regulates all capital distributions by People’s United Bank directly or indirectly to its
shareholder, including dividend payments. People’s United Bank must file a notice with the OTS at least 30 days prior to each capital distribution. However, if the total amount of all capital distributions (including any proposed capital
distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds net income for that year to date plus the retained net income for the preceding two years, then People’s United Bank must file an application to receive the approval of the OTS for a
proposed capital distribution.

People’s United Bank may not pay dividends to its shareholder if, after paying those
dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage and tangible capital ratio requirements or if the OTS notified People’s United Bank that it was in need of more than
normal supervision. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, an insured depository institution such as People’s United Bank is prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends, if, after making such distribution,
the institution would become “undercapitalized” (as such term is used in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act). Payment of dividends by People’s United Bank also may be restricted at any time at the discretion of the appropriate
regulator if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe and unsound banking practice. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion on capital distributions.

Liquidity.People’s United Bank maintains sufficient liquidity to ensure its safe and sound operation, in accordance
with OTS regulations.

Assessments.The OTS charges assessments to recover the cost of examining federal savings
banks and their affiliates. These assessments are based on three components: (i) the size of the institution on which the basic assessment is based; (ii) the institution’s supervisory condition, which results in an additional
assessment based on a percentage of the basic assessment for any savings institution with a composite rating of 3, 4 or 5 in its most recent safety and soundness examination; and (iii) the complexity of the institution’s operations, which
results in an additional assessment based on a percentage of the basic assessment for any savings institution that managed over $1 billion in trust assets, serviced for others loans aggregating more than $1 billion, or had certain off-balance sheet
assets aggregating more than $1 billion.

The OTS also assesses fees against savings and loan holding companies, such as
People’s United Financial. The OTS semi-annual assessment for savings and loan holding companies includes a base assessment with an additional assessment based on the holding company’s risk or complexity, organizational form and condition.

Branching.Under OTS branching regulations, People’s United Bank is generally authorized to open branches
nationwide if People’s United Bank (i) continues to meet the requirements of a “highly-rated” federal savings bank, and (ii) publishes public notice at least 35 days before opening a branch and no one opposes the branch. If
a comment in opposition to a branch opening is filed and the OTS determines the comment to be relevant to the approval process standards, and to require action in response, the OTS may, among other things, require a branch application or elect to
hold a meeting with People’s United Bank and the person who submitted the comment. OTS authority preempts any state law purporting to regulate branching by federal savings banks.

Anti-Money Laundering and Customer Identification.People’s United Bank is subject to OTS and Financial Crimes
Enforcement Network regulations implementing the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or the USA PATRIOT Act. The USA PATRIOT
Act gives the federal government powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers,






increased information sharing, and broadened anti-money laundering requirements. By way of amendments to the Bank Secrecy Act, Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act takes measures intended to
encourage information sharing among banks, regulatory agencies and law enforcement bodies. Further, certain provisions of Title III impose affirmative obligations on a broad range of financial institutions, including savings banks like People’s
United Bank.

The USA PATRIOT Act and the related OTS regulations impose the following requirements with respect to financial
institutions:



•establishment of anti-money laundering programs, including adoption of written procedures, designation of a compliance officer and auditing of the
program;



•establishment of a program specifying procedures for obtaining identifying information from customers seeking to open new accounts, including verifying
the identity of customers within a reasonable period of time;



•establishment of enhanced due diligence policies, procedures and controls designed to detect and report money laundering;



•prohibitions on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks and compliance with record keeping obligations with respect to correspondent accounts of
foreign banks; and



•requirements that bank regulators consider a holding company’s effectiveness in combating money laundering when ruling on Federal Reserve Act and
Bank Merger Act applications.

Federal Home Loan Bank System.People’s United Bank is a
member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (the “FHLB”) system, which consists of twelve regional Federal Home Loan Banks, each subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The FHLB provides a central credit
facility primarily for member institutions as well as other entities involved in home mortgage lending. It is funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated obligations of the Federal Home Loan Banks. It makes loans or advances
to members in accordance with policies and procedures, including collateral requirements, established by the respective boards of directors of the Federal Home Loan Banks. These policies and procedures are subject to the regulation and oversight of
the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which has also established standards of community or investment service that members must meet to maintain access to long-term advances.

People’s United Bank, as a member of the FHLB of Boston, is currently required to purchase and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB of Boston in an amount equal to 0.35% of People’s United
Bank Membership Stock Investment Base plus an Activity Based Stock Investment Requirement. The Activity Based Stock Requirement is equal to 3.0% of any outstanding principal for overnight advances, 4.0% of any outstanding principal for term advances
with an original term of two days to three months and 4.5% of any outstanding principal for term advances with an original term greater than three months. People’s United Bank is in compliance with these requirements. As a result of the
Smithtown acquisition, People’s United Bank also holds shares of capital stock in the FHLB of New York.

Federal
Reserve System.Federal Reserve Board regulations require federally chartered savings banks to maintain non-interest-earning cash reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily negotiable order of withdrawal and demand deposit
accounts). Institutions must maintain a reserve of 3% against aggregate transaction account balances between $10.7 million and $48.1 million (subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve Board) plus a reserve of 10% (subject to adjustment by the
Federal Reserve Board between 8% and 14%) against that portion of total transaction account balances in excess of $48.1 million. The first $10.7 million of otherwise reservable balances is exempt from the reserve requirements. People’s United
Bank is in compliance with the foregoing requirements. The required reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash, or an interest-bearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank, or a pass-through account as defined by the Federal Reserve Board.






Market Area and Competition

People’s United Financial’s primary market areas are New England and New York (specifically Westchester, Suffolk and Nassau counties), with Connecticut and Vermont having the largest
concentration of its loans, deposits and branches. At December 31, 2010, approximately 68% and 15% of the total loan portfolio represents loans to customers within the New England states and New York, respectively. However, substantially all of the
equipment financing portfolio involves customers outside of New England. At December 31, 2010, approximately 34% of the equipment financing portfolio was to customers located in California, Texas and Florida. As of June 30, 2010, People’s
United Financial had the largest market share of deposits in Fairfield County, the third largest in Connecticut and the largest in Vermont. People’s United Financial competes for deposits, loans and financial services with commercial banks,
savings institutions, commercial and consumer finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, credit unions, and a variety of other institutional lenders and securities firms.

As People’s United Financial’s predominant market, Connecticut is one of the most attractive banking markets in the United
States, with a total population of approximately 3.5 million and a median household income of $70,340 as of June 30, 2010, ranking second in the United States and well above the U.S. median household income of $54,442, according to
estimates from SNL Financial. Fairfield County, where People’s United Financial is headquartered, has the highest median household income in Connecticut of $87,754 as of June 30, 2010 according to estimates from SNL Financial. The median
household income in Vermont, which has the bank’s second highest concentration of branches, was $53,811 as of June 30, 2010, comparable to the national level.

The principal basis of competition for deposits is the interest rate paid for those deposits and related fees, convenient access to services through traditional and non-traditional delivery alternatives
and the quality of services to customers. The principal basis of competition for loans is through the interest rates and loan fees charged and by developing relationships based on the efficiency, convenience and quality of services provided to
borrowers. Further competition has been created through the rapid acceleration of commerce conducted over the Internet. This has enabled institutions, including People’s United Financial, to compete in markets outside their traditional
geographic boundaries.

Personnel

As of December 31, 2010, People’s United Financial had 4,528 full-time and 670 part-time employees.

Access to Information

As a public company, People’s United Financial
is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and, in accordance therewith, files reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such
reports, proxy and information statements and other information can be inspected and copied at prescribed rates at the public reference facilities maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission at 100 F Street N.E., Mail Stop 5100, Washington,
D.C. 20549 and are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s EDGAR database on the internet at www.sec.gov. People’s United Financial’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol
“PBCT”.






Copies of many of these reports are also available through People’s United
Financial’s website atwww.peoples.com.

People’s United Financial currently provides website access to the
following reports:

Form 10-K (most recent filing and any related amendments)

Form 10-Q (four most recent filings and any related amendments)

Form 8-K (all filings in most recent 12 months and any related amendments)

Annual Report to Shareholders (two most recent years)

Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders (two most recent years)

XBRL Interactive Data (most recent 12 months)



