Item 1.Business

General

People’s United Financial, Inc. (“People’s United Financial”) is a savings and loan holding company incorporated under
the state laws of Delaware. People’s United Financial was formed for the purpose of effectuating the conversion of People’s Bank and People’s Mutual Holdings from a mutual holding company structure to a stock holding company
structure. On April 16, 2007, People’s United Financial, People’s Bank and People’s Mutual Holdings completed their second-step conversion from a mutual holding company structure to a fully-public stock holding company structure.
People’s Mutual Holdings merged with and into People’s Bank, with People’s Bank as the surviving entity, and People’s Bank became a wholly-owned subsidiary of People’s United Financial. See Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a further discussion of the second-step conversion. On June 6, 2007, People’s Bank changed its name to People’s United Bank. The name “People’s United Bank” is used to refer to the Bank both
before and after the name change. People’s United Bank is a federally-chartered stock savings bank headquartered in Bridgeport, Connecticut.

On January 1, 2008, People’s United Financial completed its acquisition of Chittenden Corporation (“Chittenden”), a multi-bank holding company headquartered in Burlington, Vermont. At
December 31, 2007, Chittenden had total assets of $7.4 billion, total loans of $5.7 billion, total deposits of $6.2 billion and 140 branches. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and accordingly,
Chittenden’s assets and liabilities were recorded by People’s United Financial at their estimated fair values as of January 1, 2008. Financial data for periods prior to the acquisition date do not include the results of Chittenden.
See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of the acquisition.

On January 1, 2009, the
separate bank charters of the six former Chittenden banks, all previously wholly-owned subsidiaries of People’s United Bank, were consolidated into People’s United Bank. Chittenden Trust Company based in Burlington, Vermont; Flagship Bank
and Trust Company based in Worcester, Massachusetts; Maine Bank & Trust based in Portland, Maine; Merrill Merchants Bank based in Bangor, Maine; Ocean Bank based in Portsmouth, New Hampshire; and The Bank of Western Massachusetts based in
Springfield, Massachusetts, continue to do business under their existing names as divisions of People’s United Bank.

The
principal business of People’s United Financial is to provide, through People’s United Bank and its subsidiaries, commercial banking, retail and small business banking, and wealth management services to individual, corporate and municipal
customers. Traditional banking activities are conducted primarily within New England and include extending secured and unsecured commercial and consumer loans, originating mortgage loans secured by residential and commercial properties, and
accepting consumer, commercial and municipal deposits. In addition to traditional banking activities, People’s United Bank provides specialized financial services tailored to specific markets including: personal, institutional and employee
benefit trust; cash management; and municipal banking and finance. Through its non-banking subsidiaries, People’s United Bank offers: brokerage, financial advisory services, investment management services and life insurance through
People’s Securities, Inc.; equipment financing through People’s Capital and Leasing Corp. (“PCLC”); and other insurance services through R.C. Knox and Company, Inc. and Chittenden Insurance Group, LLC.

This full range of financial services is delivered through a network of nearly 300 branches in Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine,
Massachusetts and New York, including 81 full-service supermarket branches. In addition, People’s United Bank operates 39 investment and brokerage offices, 16 commercial banking offices, 10 PCLC offices and over 400 ATMs. People’s United
Bank’s distribution network also includes online banking and investment trading, a 24-hour telephone banking service and participation in a worldwide ATM network.







People’s United Financial’s operations are divided into three primary business
segments that represent its core businesses: Commercial Banking, Retail Banking and Small Business, and Wealth Management. Commercial Banking consists principally of commercial lending, commercial real estate lending, indirect auto lending, and
commercial deposit gathering activities. This segment also includes the equipment financing operations of PCLC, as well as cash management, correspondent banking and municipal banking. Retail Banking and Small Business includes, as its principal
business lines, consumer and small business deposit gathering activities, consumer lending (including residential mortgage and home equity), small business lending and merchant services. Wealth Management consists of trust services, corporate trust,
brokerage, financial advisory services, investment management services and life insurance provided by People’s Securities, other insurance services provided through R.C. Knox and Chittenden Insurance Group, and private banking. In addition, the
Treasury area is responsible for managing People’s United Financial’s securities portfolio, short-term investments and securities resale agreements, and wholesale borrowings.

Further discussion of People’s United Financial’s business and operations appears on pages 23 through 76.

Supervision and Regulation—People’s United Financial

Federal Holding Company Regulation

People’s United Financial is a
savings and loan holding company within the meaning of the Home Owners’ Loan Act. As such, People’s United Financial is regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision (the “OTS”) and subject to OTS examination, supervision and
reporting requirements. In addition, the OTS has enforcement authority over People’s United Financial and People’s United Bank. Among other things, this authority permits the OTS to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be
a serious risk to the subsidiary savings bank.

Activities Restrictions Applicable to Savings and Loan Holding
Companies.Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the activities of all savings and loan holding companies formed after May 4, 1999, such as People’s United Financial, must be financially related activities permissible for bank holding
companies, as defined under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Accordingly, People’s United Financial’s activities are restricted to:



•furnishing or performing management services for a savings institution subsidiary;



•conducting an insurance agency or escrow business;



•holding, managing, or liquidating assets owned or acquired from a savings institution subsidiary;



•holding or managing properties used or occupied by a savings institution subsidiary;



•acting as trustee under a deed of trust;



•any other activity (1) that the Federal Reserve Board, by regulation, has determined to be permissible for bank holding companies under
Section 4(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, unless the Director of the OTS, by regulation, prohibits or limits any such activity for savings and loan holding companies, or (2) that multiple savings and loan holding companies were
authorized by regulation to directly engage in on March 5, 1987;



•purchasing, holding, or disposing of stock acquired in connection with a qualified stock issuance if the purchase of such stock is approved by the
Director of the OTS; and



•any activity permissible for financial holding companies under section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act.

Permissible activities that are deemed to be financial in nature or incidental thereto under section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act
include:



•lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or safeguarding money or securities;



•insurance activities or providing and issuing annuities, and acting as principal, agent, or broker;



•financial, investment, or economic advisory services;







•issuing or selling instruments representing interests in pools of assets that a bank is permitted to hold directly;



•underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities;



•activities previously determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be closely related to banking;



•activities that bank holding companies are permitted to engage in outside of the United States; and



•portfolio investments made by an insurance company.

In addition, People’s United Financial cannot be acquired or acquire a company unless the acquirer or target, as applicable, is engaged solely in financial activities.

Restrictions Applicable to All Savings and Loan Holding Companies.Federal law prohibits a savings and loan holding company,
including People’s United Financial, directly or indirectly, from acquiring:



•control (as defined under the Home Owners’ Loan Act) of another savings bank (or a holding company parent) without prior OTS approval;



•through merger, consolidation or purchase of assets, another savings bank or a holding company thereof, or acquiring all or substantially all of the
assets of such institution or holding company without prior OTS approval; or



•control of any depository institution not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) (except through a merger with and
into the holding company’s savings bank subsidiary that is approved by the OTS).

The Home Owners’
Loan Act prohibits a savings and loan holding company (directly or indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries) from acquiring another savings bank or holding company thereof without prior written approval of the OTS; acquiring or retaining,
with certain exceptions, more than 5% of a non-subsidiary savings bank, a non-subsidiary holding company, or a non-subsidiary company engaged in activities other than those permitted by the Home Owners’ Loan Act; or acquiring or retaining
control of a depository institution that is not federally insured. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings banks, the OTS must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and
institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the Deposit Insurance Fund, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors.

Federal Securities Law

People’s United Financial’s securities
are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. People’s United Financial is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, and other requirements and
restrictions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Delaware Corporation Law

People’s United Financial is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, and is therefore subject to regulation by the state
of Delaware. The rights of People’s United Financial’s stockholders are governed by the Delaware General Corporation Law.

Supervision and Regulation—People’s United Bank

General

People’s United Bank has been a federally chartered savings bank since August 18, 2006 when it converted from a Connecticut
chartered savings bank. Its deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC







under the Deposit Insurance Fund. Under its charter, People’s United Bank is subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by the OTS as its chartering agency, and by the FDIC
as the deposit insurer. People’s United Bank files reports with the OTS concerning its activities and financial condition, and must obtain regulatory approval from the OTS prior to entering into certain transactions, such as mergers with, or
acquisitions of, other depository institutions. The OTS conducts periodic examinations to assess compliance with various regulatory requirements. The OTS has primary enforcement responsibility over federally chartered savings banks and has
substantial discretion to impose enforcement action on a savings bank that fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, particularly with respect to capital requirements imposed on savings banks. In addition, the FDIC has the authority
to recommend to the Director of the OTS that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular federally chartered savings bank and, if action is not taken by the Director, the FDIC has authority to take such action under certain
circumstances.

This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which a federal savings
bank can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the Deposit Insurance Fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement
activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such laws and regulations or interpretations thereof,
whether by the OTS, the FDIC or through legislation, could have a material adverse impact on People’s United Bank and its operations.

People’s United Bank’s brokerage subsidiary, People’s Securities, is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities
regulators. R.C. Knox and Chittenden Insurance Group are subject to regulation by applicable state insurance regulators.

Federally
Chartered Savings Bank Regulation

Activity Powers.Federal savings banks derive their lending,
investment and other activity powers primarily from the Home Owners’ Loan Act, as amended, and the regulations of the OTS thereunder. Under these laws and regulations, federal savings banks generally may invest in:



•real estate mortgages;



•consumer and commercial loans;



•certain types of debt securities; and



•certain other assets.







Capital Requirements.The OTS capital regulations require federally chartered
savings banks to meet three minimum capital ratios:



•Tangible Capital Ratio—A 1.5% tangible capital ratio, calculated as tangible capital to adjusted total assets.



•Leverage (Core) Capital Ratio—A 4% leverage (core) capital ratio, calculated as core capital to adjusted total assets. The minimum leverage
(core) capital ratio is reduced to 3% if the savings bank received the highest rating on its most recent safety and soundness examination.



•Risk-Based Capital Ratio—An 8% total risk-based capital ratio, calculated as total capital to risk-weighted assets. For purposes of this
calculation, total capital includes core and supplementary capital, provided that supplementary capital may not exceed 100% of core capital.

In assessing an institution’s capital adequacy, the OTS takes into consideration not only these numeric factors but also qualitative factors as well, and has the authority to establish higher capital
requirements for individual institutions where necessary. People’s United Bank, as a matter of prudent management, targets as its goal the maintenance of capital ratios which exceed these minimum requirements and that are consistent with
People’s United Bank’s risk profile. At December 31, 2009, People’s United Bank exceeded each of its capital requirements. See “Regulatory Capital Requirements” on pages 71 and 72 for a further discussion regarding
People’s United Bank’s capital requirements.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act requires
that the OTS and other federal banking agencies revise their risk-based capital standards, with appropriate transition rules, to ensure that they take into account interest rate risk, concentration risk and the risks of non-traditional activities.
The OTS monitors the interest rate risk of individual institutions through the OTS requirements for interest rate risk management, the ability of the OTS to impose individual minimum capital requirements on institutions that exhibit a high degree of
interest rate risk, and the requirements of Thrift Bulletin 13a, which provides guidance on the management of interest rate risk and the responsibility of boards of directors in that area.

The OTS continues to monitor the interest rate risk of individual institutions through analysis of the change in net portfolio value. Net
portfolio value is defined as the net present value of the expected future cash flows of an entity’s assets and liabilities and, therefore, hypothetically represents the value of an institution’s net worth. The OTS has also used this net
portfolio value analysis as part of its evaluation of certain applications or notices submitted by savings banks. The OTS, through its general oversight of the safety and soundness of savings associations, retains the right to impose minimum capital
requirements on individual institutions to the extent the institution is not in compliance with certain written guidelines established by the OTS regarding net portfolio value analysis. The OTS has not imposed any such requirements on People’s
United Bank.

Safety and Soundness Standards.Pursuant to the requirements of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act, as amended by the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, each federal banking agency, including the OTS, has adopted guidelines establishing general standards relating to internal controls,
information and internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, asset quality, earnings and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, the guidelines require, among other things, appropriate
systems and practices to identify and manage the risks and exposures specified in the guidelines. The guidelines prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are
unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director, or principal stockholder.







In addition, the OTS adopted regulations to require a savings bank that is given notice by
the OTS that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan to the OTS. If, after being so notified, a savings bank fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to
implement an accepted compliance plan, the OTS may issue an order directing corrective and other actions of the types to which a significantly undercapitalized institution is subject under the “prompt corrective action” provisions of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act. If a savings bank fails to comply with such an order, the OTS may seek to enforce the order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil monetary penalties.

Prompt Corrective Action.



•an amount equal to 5% of the bank’s total assets at the time it became “undercapitalized”; and



•the amount that is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the bank into compliance with all capital standards applicable with respect to
such bank as of the time it fails to comply with a capital restoration plan.

If a bank fails to submit an
acceptable plan, it is treated as if it were “significantly undercapitalized.” Banks that are significantly or critically undercapitalized are subject to a wider range of regulatory requirements and restrictions. Under OTS regulations,
generally, a federal savings bank is treated as well-capitalized if its total risk-based capital ratio is 10% or greater, its Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio is 6% or greater, and its leverage ratio is 5% or greater, and it is not subject to any
order or directive by the OTS to meet a specific capital level. As of December 31, 2009, People’s United Bank’s regulatory capital ratios exceeded the OTS’s numeric criteria for classification as a “well-capitalized”
institution.

Insurance Activities.Federal savings banks are generally permitted to engage in certain insurance
and annuity activities through its subsidiaries. However, federal banking laws prohibit depository institutions from conditioning the extension of credit to individuals upon either the purchase of an insurance product or annuity from an entity
affiliated with the depository institution or an agreement by the consumer not to purchase an insurance product or annuity from an entity that is not affiliated with the depository institution. Applicable regulations also require prior disclosure of
this prohibition to potential insurance product or annuity customers.

Federal banking agencies, including the OTS, also
require depository institutions that offer non-deposit investment products, such as certain annuity and related insurance products, to disclose to the consumer that the products are not federally insured, are not guaranteed by the institution and
are subject to investment risk including possible loss of principal. These disclosure requirements apply if the institution offers the non-deposit investment products directly or through affiliates or subsidiaries.







Deposit Insurance.People’s United Bank is a member of, and pays its
deposit insurance assessments to, the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”).

Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act, the FDIC established a system for setting deposit insurance premiums based upon the risks a particular bank or savings association posed to its deposit insurance fund. Effective January 1, 2007, the FDIC established
a risk-based assessment system for determining the deposit insurance assessments to be paid by insured depository institutions. Under the assessment system, the FDIC assigns an institution to one of four risk categories, with the first category
having two sub-categories based on the institution’s most recent supervisory and capital evaluations, designed to measure risk. Historically, assessment rates have ranged from 0.05% of deposits for an institution in the highest sub-category of
the highest category to 0.43% of deposits for an institution in the lowest category. The FDIC is authorized to raise the assessment rates as necessary to maintain the required reserve ratio of 1.25%.

Current economic conditions have resulted in an increased number of bank failures and, consequently, greater use of DIF resources. In
response, the FDIC authorized higher premium assessments for 2009 pursuant to a restoration plan designed to increase the DIF reserve ratio to required levels. Under the FDIC’s restoration plan, the premium assessment rate was raised uniformly
by seven basis points beginning on January 1, 2009 resulting in an initial base assessment rate of 12 basis points for People’s United Bank. Furthermore, the premium assessment rate in effect beginning April 1, 2009 is subject to
adjustments that are based on each institution’s risk profile and may affect its initial base assessment rate.

On
May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposed a special assessment of 5 basis points on each insured financial institution’s total assets less Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC adopted
a plan that extended the DIF restoration plan from seven years to eight years and on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that amended the assessment regulations to require insured financial institutions to prepay, on
December 30, 2009, their estimated deposit insurance premiums for 2010, 2011 and 2012. This rule, which did not include any additional special assessments, assumes a 5% annual growth rate in each institution’s insured deposits (the
assessment base) and increases each institution’s premium assessment rate by three basis points beginning in 2011.

In
addition, all FDIC-insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC at an annual rate of approximately 0.0106% of insured deposits to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, an agency of the federal
government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the Savings Association Insurance Fund. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2017 through 2019.

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may terminate the insurance of an institution’s deposits upon a finding that the
institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC.

Transactions with Affiliates.Federal savings banks are subject to the affiliate and insider transaction rules set forth in
Sections 23A, 23B, 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, as well as additional limitations as adopted by the Director of the OTS. The OTS regulations regarding transactions with affiliates and insider transactions generally conform to
Regulation W and Regulation O, respectively, issued by the Federal Reserve Board. Affiliated transactions provisions, among other things, prohibit or limit a savings bank from extending credit to, or entering into certain transactions with, its
affiliates and principal stockholders, directors and executive officers of the Federal savings bank.







In addition, Section 11 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act prohibits a savings bank from
making a loan to an affiliate that is engaged in non-bank holding company activities and prohibits a savings bank from purchasing or investing in securities issued by an affiliate that is not a subsidiary. OTS regulations also includes certain
specific exemptions from these prohibitions. The Federal Reserve Board and the OTS require each depository institution that is subject to the affiliate transaction restrictions of Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act to implement policies
and procedures to ensure compliance with Regulation W and the OTS regulations regarding transactions with affiliates.

In
addition to the insider transaction limitations of Sections 22(g) and 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the extension of personal loans to directors and executive officers of issuers (as
defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act). The prohibition, however, does not apply to mortgage loans advanced by an insured depository institution, such as People’s United Bank, that are subject to the insider lending restrictions of
Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act.

Privacy Standards.People’s United Bank is subject to OTS
regulations implementing the privacy protection provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. These regulations require People’s United Bank to disclose its privacy policy, including identifying with whom it shares “non-public personal
information,” to customers at the time of establishing the customer relationship and annually thereafter. In addition, People’s United Bank is required to provide its customers with the ability to “opt-out” of having
People’s United Bank share their non-public personal information with unaffiliated third parties before the bank can disclose such information, subject to certain exceptions.

In addition to certain state laws governing protection of customer information, People’s United Bank is subject to federal regulatory
guidelines establishing standards for safeguarding customer information. These regulations implement certain provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The guidelines describe the agencies’ expectations for the creation, implementation and
maintenance of an information security program, which would include administrative, technical and physical safeguards appropriate to the size and complexity of the institution and the nature and scope of its activities. The standards set forth in
the guidelines are intended to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such records and protect against unauthorized access to or
use of such records or information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. Federal guidelines also impose certain customer disclosures and other actions in the event of unauthorized access to customer information.

Community Reinvestment Act.Under the Community Reinvestment Act, as implemented by the OTS regulations, any
federally chartered savings bank, including People’s United Bank, has a continuing and affirmative obligation consistent with its safe and sound operation to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income
neighborhoods. The Community Reinvestment Act does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for financial institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes
are best suited to its particular community. The Community Reinvestment Act requires the OTS, in connection with its examination of a federally chartered savings bank, to assess the depository institution’s record of meeting the credit needs of
its community and to take such record into account in its evaluation of certain applications by such institution.

Current
Community Reinvestment Act regulations rate an institution based on its actual performance in meeting community needs. In particular, the evaluation system focuses on three tests:



•a lending test, to evaluate the institution’s record of making loans in its service areas;



•an investment test, to evaluate the institution’s record of investing in community development projects, affordable housing, and programs
benefiting low or moderate income individuals and businesses; and



•a service test, to evaluate the institution’s delivery of services through its branches, ATMs and other offices.







The Community Reinvestment Act also requires all institutions to make public disclosure of
their Community Reinvestment Act ratings. People’s United Bank has received an “outstanding” rating in its most recent Community Reinvestment Act examination performed by the FDIC and the Connecticut Department of Banking in 2006. The
federal banking agencies adopted regulations implementing the requirements under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act that insured depository institutions publicly disclose certain agreements that are in fulfillment of the Community Reinvestment Act.
People’s United Bank has no such agreements in place at this time.

Loans to One Borrower.Under the Home
Owners’ Loan Act, savings banks are generally subject to the national bank limits on loans to one borrower. Generally, savings banks may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of the
institution’s unimpaired capital and surplus. Additional amounts may be loaned, not in excess of 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if such loans or extensions of credit are secured by readily-marketable collateral. People’s United
Bank is in compliance with applicable loans to one borrower limitations.

Nontraditional Mortgage Products.The
federal banking agencies have issued guidance for institutions that originate or service nontraditional or alternative mortgage products, defined to include all residential mortgage loan products that allow borrowers to defer repayment on principal
or interest, such as interest-only mortgages and payment option adjustable-rate mortgages. A portion of People’s United Bank’s adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans represent interest-only residential mortgage loans, however, none of
these loans permit negative amortization or optional payment amounts.

Recognizing that alternative mortgage products expose
institutions to increased risks as compared to traditional loans where payments amortize or reduce the principal amount, the guidance required increased scrutiny for alternative mortgage products. Institutions that originate or service alternative
mortgages should have: (i) strong risk management practices that include maintenance of capital levels and allowance for loan losses commensurate with the risk; (ii) prudent lending policies and underwriting standards that address a
borrower’s repayment capacity; and (iii) programs and practices designed to ensure that consumers receive clear and balanced information to assist in making informed decisions about mortgage products. The guidance also recommends
heightened controls and safeguards when an institution combines an alternative mortgage product with features that compound risk, such as a simultaneous second-lien or the use of reduced documentation to evaluate a loan application.

People’s United Bank complies with the guidance on non-traditional mortgage products as it is interpreted and applied by the OTS.

Qualified Thrift Lender Test.The Home Owners’ Loan Act requires Federal savings banks to meet a Qualified
Thrift Lender test. Under the Qualified Thrift Lender test, a savings bank is required to maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” (total assets less: (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets;
(ii) intangibles, including goodwill; and (iii) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed
securities, credit card loans, student loans, and small business loans) on a monthly basis during at least 9 out of every 12 months. The OTS granted People’s United Bank an exception from the Qualified Thrift Lender test for a period of four
years from the date of its conversion to a federal charter (August 18, 2006).

A savings bank that fails the Qualified Thrift
Lender test and does not convert to a bank charter generally will be prohibited from: (i) engaging in any new activity not permissible for a national bank; (ii) paying dividends not permissible under national bank regulations; and
(iii) establishing any new branch office in a location not permissible for a national bank in the institution’s home state. In addition, if the institution does not requalify under the Qualified Thrift Lender test within three years after
failing the test, the institution would be prohibited from engaging in any activity not permissible for a national bank and may have to repay any outstanding advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank as promptly as possible.







Limitation on Capital Distributions.The OTS regulations impose limitations
upon certain capital distributions by Federal savings banks, such as certain cash dividends, payments to repurchase or otherwise acquire its shares, payments to stockholders of another institution in a cash out merger and other distributions charged
against capital.

The OTS regulates all capital distributions by People’s United Bank directly or indirectly to its
shareholder, including dividend payments. People’s United Bank must file a notice with the OTS at least 30 days prior to each capital distribution. However, if the total amount of all capital distributions (including any proposed capital
distribution) for the applicable calendar year exceeds net income for that year to date plus the retained net income for the preceding two years, as is the case as of December 31, 2009, then People’s United Bank must file an application to
receive the approval of the OTS for a proposed capital distribution.

People’s United Bank may not pay dividends to its
shareholder if, after paying those dividends, it would fail to meet the required minimum levels under risk-based capital guidelines and the minimum leverage and tangible capital ratio requirements or if the OTS notified People’s United Bank
that it was in need of more than normal supervision. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, an insured depository institution such as People’s United Bank is prohibited from making capital distributions, including the payment of dividends,
if, after making such distribution, the institution would become “undercapitalized” (as such term is used in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act). Payment of dividends by People’s United Bank also may be restricted at any time at the
discretion of the appropriate regulator if it deems the payment to constitute an unsafe and unsound banking practice. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion on capital distributions.

Liquidity.People’s United Bank maintains sufficient liquidity to ensure its safe and sound operation, in accordance with
OTS regulations.

Assessments.The OTS charges assessments to recover the cost of examining Federal savings
banks and their affiliates. These assessments are based on three components: (i) the size of the institution on which the basic assessment is based; (ii) the institution’s supervisory condition, which results in an additional
assessment based on a percentage of the basic assessment for any savings institution with a composite rating of 3, 4 or 5 in its most recent safety and soundness examination; and (iii) the complexity of the institution’s operations, which
results in an additional assessment based on a percentage of the basic assessment for any savings institution that managed over $1 billion in trust assets, serviced for others loans aggregating more than $1 billion, or had certain off-balance sheet
assets aggregating more than $1 billion.

The OTS also assesses fees against savings and loan holding companies, such as
People’s United Financial. The OTS semi-annual assessment for savings and loan holding companies includes a base assessment with an additional assessment based on the holding company’s risk or complexity, organizational form and condition.

Branching.Under OTS branching regulations, People’s United Bank is generally authorized to open branches
nationwide if People’s United Bank (i) continues to meet the requirements of a “highly-rated” Federal savings bank, and (ii) publishes public notice at least 35 days before opening a branch and no one opposes the branch. If
a comment in opposition to a branch opening is filed and the OTS determines the comment to be relevant to the approval process standards, and to require action in response, the OTS may, among other things, require a branch application or elect to
hold a meeting with People’s United Bank and the person who submitted the comment. OTS authority preempts any state law purporting to regulate branching by Federal savings banks.







Anti-Money Laundering and Customer Identification.People’s United Bank
is subject to OTS and Financial Crimes Enforcement Network regulations implementing the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or
the USA PATRIOT Act. The USA PATRIOT Act gives the federal government powers to address terrorist threats through enhanced domestic security measures, expanded surveillance powers, increased information sharing, and broadened anti-money laundering
requirements. By way of amendments to the Bank Secrecy Act, Title III of the USA PATRIOT Act takes measures intended to encourage information sharing among banks, regulatory agencies and law enforcement bodies. Further, certain provisions of Title
III impose affirmative obligations on a broad range of financial institutions, including savings banks like People’s United Bank.

The USA PATRIOT Act and the related OTS regulations impose the following requirements with respect to financial institutions:



•establishment of anti-money laundering programs, including adoption of written procedures, designation of a compliance officer and auditing of the
program;



•establishment of a program specifying procedures for obtaining identifying information from customers seeking to open new accounts, including verifying
the identity of customers within a reasonable period of time;



•establishment of enhanced due diligence policies, procedures and controls designed to detect and report money laundering;



•prohibitions on correspondent accounts for foreign shell banks and compliance with record keeping obligations with respect to correspondent accounts of
foreign banks; and



•requirements that bank regulators consider a holding company’s effectiveness in combating money laundering when ruling on Federal Reserve Act and
Bank Merger Act applications.

Federal Home Loan Bank System.People’s United Bank is a
member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (the “FHLB”) system, which consists of twelve regional Federal Home Loan Banks, each subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The FHLB provides a central credit
facility primarily for member institutions as well as other entities involved in home mortgage lending. It is funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated obligations of the Federal Home Loan Banks. It makes loans or advances
to members in accordance with policies and procedures, including collateral requirements, established by the respective boards of directors of the Federal Home Loan Banks. These policies and procedures are subject to the regulation and oversight of
the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which has also established standards of community or investment service that members must meet to maintain access to long-term advances.

People’s United Bank, as a member of the FHLB of Boston, is currently required to purchase and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB
of Boston in an amount equal to 0.35% of People’s United Bank Membership Stock Investment Base plus an Activity Based Stock Investment Requirement. The Activity Based Stock Requirement is equal to 3.0% of any outstanding principal for overnight
advances, 4.0% of any outstanding principal for term advances with an original term of two days to three months and 4.5% of any outstanding principal for term advances with an original term greater than three months. People’s United Bank is in
compliance with these requirements.







Federal Reserve System.Federal Reserve Board regulations require federally
chartered savings banks to maintain non-interest-earning cash reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily negotiable order of withdrawal and demand deposit accounts). Institutions must maintain a reserve of 3% against aggregate
transaction account balances between $10.3 million and $34.1 million (subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve Board) plus a reserve of 10% (subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve Board between 8% and 14%) against that portion of total
transaction account balances in excess of $34.1 million. The first $10.3 million of otherwise reservable balances is exempt from the reserve requirements. People’s United Bank is in compliance with the foregoing requirements. The required
reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash, or an interest-bearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank, or a pass-through account as defined by the Federal Reserve Board.

Market Area and Competition

People’s United Financial’s primary
market area is New England, with Connecticut and Vermont having the largest concentration of its loans, deposits and branches. At December 31, 2009, approximately 81% of the total loan portfolio involving customers within New England. However,
substantially all of the equipment financing activities of PCLC involves customers outside of New England. PCLC provides equipment financing for customers in 47 states and, at December 31, 2009, approximately 33% of its loans were to customers
located in California, Texas and Florida. People’s United Financial competes for deposits, loans and financial services with commercial banks, savings institutions, commercial and consumer finance companies, mortgage banking companies,
insurance companies, credit unions, and a variety of other institutional lenders and securities firms.

As People’s
United Financial’s predominant market, Connecticut is one of the most attractive banking markets in the United States with a total population of approximately 3.5 million and a median household income of $70,949 as of June 30, 2009,
ranking second in the United States and well above the U.S. median household income of $54,719, according to estimates from SNL Securities. Fairfield County, where People’s United Financial is headquartered, is the wealthiest county in
Connecticut, with a June 30, 2009 median household income of $87,897 according to estimates from SNL Securities. The median household income in Vermont, which has the bank’s second highest concentration of branches, was $54,205 as of
June 30, 2009, comparable to the national level.

The principal basis of competition for deposits is the interest rate
paid for those deposits and related fees, convenient access to services through traditional and non-traditional delivery alternatives and the quality of services to customers. The principal basis of competition for loans is through the interest
rates and loan fees charged and by developing relationships based on the efficiency, convenience and quality of services provided to borrowers. Further competition has been created through the rapid acceleration of commerce conducted over the
Internet. This has enabled institutions, including People’s United Financial, to compete in markets outside their traditional geographic boundaries.

Personnel

As of December 31, 2009, People’s United Financial,
had 3,898 full-time and 636 part-time employees.

Access to Information

As a public company, People’s United Financial is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended and, in accordance therewith, files reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such reports, proxy and information statements and other information can be inspected and copied
at prescribed rates at the public reference facilities maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission at 100 F Street N.E., Mail Stop 5100, Washington, D.C. 20549 and are available on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s EDGAR
database on the internet at www.sec.gov. People’s United Financial’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “PBCT”.







Copies of many of these reports are also available through People’s United
Financial’s website atwww.peoples.com.

People’s United Financial currently provides website access to the
following reports:

Form 10-K (most recent filing and any related amendments)

Form 10-Q (four most recent filings and any related amendments)

Form 8-K (all filings in most recent 12 months and any related amendments)

Annual Report to Shareholders (two most recent years)

Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders (two most recent years)

XBRL Interactive Data (most recent 12 months)



