Item 1.    Business



Overview

Edwards Lifesciences Corporation is a global leader in products and technologies designed to treat advanced cardiovascular disease. The
Company is focused specifically on technologies that treat structural heart disease and critically ill patients.

Cardiovascular
disease is the number-one cause of death in the world, and is the top disease in terms of health care spending in nearly every country. Cardiovascular disease
is progressive in that it tends to worsen over time and often affects an individual's entire circulatory system. In its later stages, cardiovascular disease is frequently treated by surgical
interventions.

The
products and technologies provided by Edwards Lifesciences to treat advanced cardiovascular disease are categorized into four main areas: Heart Valve Therapy; Critical Care; Cardiac
Surgery Systems; and Vascular.

Patients
undergoing surgical treatment for cardiovascular disease are likely to be treated using a variety of Edwards Lifesciences' products and technologies. For example, an individual
with a heart valve disorder may have a faulty valve. A clinician may elect to remove the valve and replace it with one of Edwards Lifesciences' bioprosthetic surgical tissue heart valves, surgically
re-shape and repair the faulty valve with an Edwards Lifesciences annuloplasty ring, or deploy an Edwards Lifesciences transcatheter valve via a minimally invasive catheter-based system.
Virtually all high-risk patients in the operating room or intensive care unit are candidates for having their cardiac function monitored by Edwards Lifesciences' Critical Care products. If
a patient undergoes open-heart surgery, Edwards Lifesciences' Cardiac Surgery Systems disposable products may be used while the patient's heart and lung functions are being bypassed. If
the circulatory problems are in the limbs rather than in the heart, the patient's procedure may involve some of Edwards Lifesciences' Vascular products, which include various types of balloon-tipped
catheters that are used to remove blood clots from diseased blood vessels.









Corporate Background

Edwards Lifesciences Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on September 10, 1999. Unless otherwise indicated or otherwise
required by the context, the terms "we," "our," "it," "its," "Company," "Edwards" and "Edwards Lifesciences" refer to Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and its subsidiaries.

Edwards
Lifesciences' principal executive offices are located at One Edwards Way, Irvine, California 92614. The telephone number at that address is (949) 250-2500. The
Company makes available, free of charge on its website located at www.edwards.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Company's
corporate governance guidelines, audit and public policy committee charter, compensation and governance committee charter, and code of business conduct are also posted on the Company's website at
www.edwards.com under "Investor Relations." The contents of the Company's website are not incorporated by reference into this report.

Edwards Lifesciences' Product and Technology Offerings

The following discussion summarizes the main categories of products and technologies offered by Edwards Lifesciences to treat advanced
cardiovascular disease. For more information on net sales from these four main categories, see"Net Sales by Product Line" under
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Heart Valve Therapy

Edwards Lifesciences is the global leader in heart valve therapy and the world's leading manufacturer of tissue heart valves and repair
products, which are used to replace or repair a patient's
diseased or defective heart valve. The Company produces pericardial and porcine valves from biologically inert animal tissue sewn onto proprietary wireform stents.

The
core of Edwards Lifesciences' surgical tissue heart valve product line is theCarpentier-Edwards PERIMOUNTpericardial valve,
including the line ofPERIMOUNT Magnavalves, the newest generation pericardial valves for aortic and mitral replacement. ThePERIMOUNTvalve is the most
widely prescribed tissue heart valve in the world due to its proven durability and performance. The Company's most recent
additions to thePERIMOUNTproduct line include theMagnamitral valve and thePERIMOUNT Magna Easeaortic
valve. The durability of Edwards Lifesciences' tissue valves is extended through the use of its proprietaryThermaFixandXenoLogiXtissue treatment
processes. Edwards Lifesciences also sells porcine valves and
stentless tissue valves. In addition to its replacement valves, Edwards Lifesciences pioneered and is the worldwide leader in heart valve repair therapies, including annuloplasty rings and systems.
The Company has continued to extend its leadership in this field with the recent introduction of the next generationCarpentier-Edwards Physio IImitral
valve repair ring.

Edwards
Lifesciences is leveraging the knowledge and experience from its legacy of tissue heart valve engineering by developing transcatheter heart valve replacement and repair
technologies, designed to treat heart valve disease using catheter-based approaches as opposed to open surgical techniques. For aortic valve replacement, the Company has developed theEdwards SAPIENtranscatheter heart valve ("THV"), which is delivered using theRetroFlex 3delivery
system for transfemoral approaches, and theAscendradelivery system for transapical approaches. Both are minimal access, beating heart procedures. A
number of Edwards Lifesciences' products are pending regulatory approval to begin commercial sales, including theEdwards SAPIENTHV in the United
States, and theEdwards SAPIEN XTTHV, theNovaFlexdelivery system andAscendra
2delivery system in Europe. In the area of transcatheter mitral valve repair, the Company is developing theMONARCmitral
repair system. The Company believes that both aortic stenosis and mitral regurgitation in global populations today are under-treated and as a result, the market opportunity for these less invasive
heart valve therapies is substantial.









Critical Care

Edwards Lifesciences is a world leader in hemodynamic monitoring equipment that is used to measure a patient's heart function in
surgical and intensive care settings. Hemodynamic monitoring enables a clinician to balance the oxygen supply and demand of a critically ill patient and plays an important role in assuring that the
cardiovascular function of millions of patients who have pre-existing cardiovascular conditions or other critical illnesses is optimized before they undergo a surgical procedure.

Edwards
Lifesciences' hemodynamic monitoring technologies are often deployed before, during and after open-heart, major vascular, major abdominal, neurological and orthopedic
surgical procedures. Edwards Lifesciences manufactures and markets theSwan-Ganzline of hemodynamic monitoring products, and thePreSepvenous oximetry
catheter for measuring central venous oxygen saturation. Edwards' hemodynamic monitoring product line includes thePediaSatoximetry catheter, the first real-time, continuous venous oxygen saturation
monitoring device designed specifically for children.
The Company also offers theFloTraccontinuous cardiac output monitoring system, a minimally invasive cardiac monitoring technology.

Edwards
Lifesciences is a global leader in the broader field of disposable pressure monitoring devices and has a line of innovative products enabling closed-loop arterial
blood sampling to protect both patients and clinicians from the risk of infection. Central venous catheters are the primary route for fluid and medication delivery to patients undergoing major
surgical procedures and/or intensive care. The Company's advanced venous access products provide increased convenience, effectiveness and efficiency by integrating the capabilities of an introducer
and multi-lumen central venous access catheter into a single device. Prior to September 2009, the Company marketed outside of the United States a line of products required to perform continuous
hemofiltration therapies including access catheters, hemofilters, substitution fluids and pumps.

In
late 2008, the Company entered into a third-party partnership to jointly develop automated, real-time glucose monitoring technologies for intensive care hospital settings.
Glycemic control is being advocated in many medical society guidelines as an important therapy for improving clinical outcomes. In late 2009, the Company received European regulatory approval to begin
commercialization of the product and market evaluations were begun in a limited number of clinical sites.

Cardiac Surgery Systems

The Cardiac Surgery Systems product line offers technologies that complement the Company's Heart Valve Therapy product line including
products used in conducting cardiac surgery procedures. Edwards Lifesciences is a global leader in providing cannulae, which are used during cardiac surgery in venous drainage, aortic dispersion and
cardioplegia delivery. New products place particular emphasis on reducing trauma to vessel walls during cannula placement, usage and removal. The Company'sEMBOL-Xintra-aortic filtration system is
designed to capture emboli released at both application and release of the aortic cross clamp
during on-pump cardiac surgery.

The
Company's minimally invasive surgery ("MIS") product line includes thePORT-ACCESSproducts, such as the proprietaryEndoCPBsystem for minimally invasive
heart valve surgery, which comprises soft tissue retractors, venous and arterial cannulae, vent and coronary sinus
catheters, and reusable instruments for performing port-access cardiac valve procedures.

Vascular

The pervasive nature of cardiovascular disease means that the circulatory conditions that occur inside the heart are often mirrored in
peripheral blood vessels elsewhere in a patient's body. Atherosclerotic disease is one common condition that involves the thickening of blood vessels and the formation of circulation restricting
plaque, clots and other substances.

Edwards
Lifesciences manufactures and sells a variety of products used to treat endolumenal occlusive disease, including balloon-tipped, catheter-based embolectomy products, surgical
clips and clamps. Edwards











Lifesciences'Fogartyline of embolectomy catheters has been an industry standard for removing blood clots from peripheral blood vessels for more than
40 years. Edwards manufactured and soldLifeStentballoon-expandable and self-expanding non-coronary stents until the
sale of this product line in January 2008. The Company continued to manufacture these products for the buyer until September 2009 when manufacturing was transferred to the buyer.

Competition

The medical devices industry is highly competitive. Edwards Lifesciences competes with many companies, ranging from small
start-up enterprises to companies that are larger and more established than Edwards Lifesciences with access to significant financial resources. Furthermore, new product development and
technological change characterize the markets in which Edwards Lifesciences competes. The present or future products of Edwards Lifesciences could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of
technological advances by one or more of Edwards Lifesciences' present or future competitors or by other therapies, including drug therapies. Edwards Lifesciences must continue to develop and acquire
new products and technologies to remain competitive in the cardiovascular medical devices industry. Edwards Lifesciences believes that it competes primarily on the basis of clinical superiority and
innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and cost-effectiveness.

The
cardiovascular segment of the medical device industry is dynamic and subject to significant change due to cost-of-care considerations, regulatory reform,
industry and customer consolidation, and evolving patient needs. The ability to provide products and technologies that demonstrate value and improve clinical outcomes is becoming increasingly
important for medical device manufacturers.

Edwards
Lifesciences' products and technologies face substantial competition from a number of companies including divisions of companies much larger than Edwards Lifesciences and smaller
companies that compete in specific product categories or certain geographies. In Heart Valve Therapy, primary competitors include St. Jude Medical, Inc., Medtronic, Inc. and Sorin
Group. In Critical Care, Edwards Lifesciences competes primarily with ICU Medical, Inc. and a variety of other companies in specific product categories including PULSION Medical Systems AG,
LiDCO Group PLC and Becton, Dickinson and Co. In Cardiac Surgery Systems, Edwards Lifesciences competes primarily with Medtronic, Inc. In Vascular, Edwards Lifesciences competes
with a wide variety of mostly smaller companies.

Sales and Marketing

Edwards Lifesciences has a number of broad product lines that require a sales and marketing strategy tailored to its customers in order
to deliver high-quality, cost-effective products and technologies to all of its customers worldwide. Edwards Lifesciences' portfolio includes some of the most recognizable
product brands in cardiovascular devices today.

Because
of the diverse global needs of the population that Edwards Lifesciences serves, the Company's distribution system consists of a direct sales force as well as independent
distributors. Edwards Lifesciences is not dependent on any single customer and no single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's net sales in 2009.

Sales
personnel work closely with the primary decision makers who purchase Edwards Lifesciences' products, which primarily include physicians, but can also include material managers,
nurses, biomedical staff, hospital administrators, purchasing managers and ministries of health. Also, for certain of its products and where appropriate, the Company's sales force actively pursues
approval of Edwards Lifesciences as a qualified supplier for hospital group purchasing organizations ("GPOs") that negotiate contracts with suppliers of medical products. Additionally, Edwards
Lifesciences has contracts with a number of United States national and regional buying groups.









United States.In the United States, Edwards Lifesciences sells substantially all of its products through its direct sales force.
In 2009, 42% of
Edwards Lifesciences' reported sales were derived from sales to customers in the United States.

International.In 2009, 58% of Edwards Lifesciences' reported sales were derived internationally through its direct sales force
and independent
distributors. Edwards Lifesciences sells its products in approximately 100 countries, and its major international markets include Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the
Netherlands, Spain and United Kingdom. A substantial portion of the sales and marketing approach in international geographies is direct sales, although it varies depending on each country's size and
state of development. The international markets in which the Company chooses to market its products are also influenced by the existence of, or potential for, adequate product reimbursement.

Raw Materials and Manufacturing

Edwards Lifesciences operates manufacturing facilities in various geographies around the world. The Company maintains heart valve
manufacturing facilities in California, Switzerland and Singapore. Critical Care products are manufactured primarily in the Company's facilities located in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic.
Edwards' Cardiac Surgery Systems and Vascular products are manufactured primarily in Utah and Puerto Rico, respectively.

Edwards
Lifesciences uses a diverse and broad range of raw and organic materials in the design, development and manufacture of its products. Edwards Lifesciences'
non-implantable products are manufactured from man-made raw materials including resins, chemicals, electronics and metal. Most of Edwards Lifesciences' Heart Valve Therapy
products are manufactured from natural tissues harvested from animal tissue, as well as man-made materials. The Company purchases certain materials and components used in manufacturing its
products from external suppliers. In addition, Edwards Lifesciences purchases certain supplies from single sources for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, cost effectiveness or
constraints resulting from regulatory requirements.

Edwards
Lifesciences works closely with its suppliers to mitigate risk and assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. Alternative supplier options are
generally considered and identified, although the Company does not typically pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources due to the strength of its existing supplier relationships and the
time and expense associated with the regulatory validation process.

Edwards
Lifesciences follows rigorous sourcing and manufacturing procedures intended to safeguard humans from potential risks associated with diseases such as bovine spongiform
encephalopathy ("BSE"). International health and regulatory authorities have given guidance identifying three factors contributing to the control of BSE: source of animals, nature of tissue used and
manufacturing process controls. In the countries in which the Company sells its products, it complies with all current global guidelines regarding risks for products intended to be implanted in
humans. The Company obtains bovine tissue used in its pericardial tissue valve products only from sources within the United States and Australia, where strong control measures and
surveillance programs exist. In addition, bovine tissue used in the Company's pericardial tissue valve products is from tissue types considered by global health and regulatory organizations to have
shown no risk of infectibility. The Company's manufacturing and sterilization processes render tissue biologically safe from all known infectious agents and viruses, and exceed the worldwide standard
for sterile medical products. See"Risk Factors"contained herein.

Quality Assurance

Edwards Lifesciences is committed to providing quality products to its customers. To meet this commitment, the Company has implemented
modern quality systems and concepts throughout the organization. The quality system starts with the initial product specification and continues through the design of the product, component
specification processes, and the manufacturing, sales and servicing of the product.











The
quality system is intended to design in quality and utilizes continuous improvement concepts throughout the product lifecycle.

Edwards
Lifesciences' operations are certified under applicable international quality systems standards, such as International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") 9000 and
ISO 13485. These standards require, among other items, quality system controls that are applied to product design, component material, suppliers and manufacturing operations. These ISO
certifications can be obtained only after a complete audit of a company's quality system has been conducted by an independent outside auditor. Periodic reexamination by an independent outside auditor
is required to maintain these certifications.

Environmental Health and Safety

Edwards Lifesciences is committed to a safe and healthy workplace and the promotion of environmental excellence in its own communities
and worldwide. Through its Environmental Health and Safety function, the Company facilitates compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and monitors performance against these objectives at all
levels of its organization. In order to measure performance, the Company monitors a number of metrics, which include the generation of both regulated and non-regulated waste, emissions of
air toxics, energy usage and lost time incidents in the Company's production activities. Each of the Company's manufacturing sites is evaluated routinely with respect to a broad range of Environmental
Health and Safety criteria.

Research and Development

Edwards Lifesciences is engaged in ongoing research and development to deliver clinically advanced new products, to enhance the
effectiveness, ease of use, safety and reliability of its current leading products, and to expand the applications of its products as appropriate. Edwards Lifesciences focuses on opportunities within
specific areas of cardiovascular disease and is dedicated to developing novel technologies to better enable clinicians to treat patients who suffer from the disease.

The
Company invested $175 million in research and development in 2009, $139 million in 2008 (excluding special charges) and $122 million in 2007 (13.3%, 11.2% and
11.2% of net sales, respectively). A significant portion of the Company's research and development investment has been applied to extend and defend its core Heart Valve Therapy and Critical Care
product lines, including research and development relating to next-generation pericardial tissue valves and enhanced tissue processing technologies.

Edwards
Lifesciences is investing substantially in the development of transcatheter heart valve replacement and repair technologies, designed to treat heart valve disease using a
catheter-based approach as opposed to open surgical techniques. In the area of transcatheter aortic valve replacement, the Company is developing next generation versions of itsEdwards SAPIENTHV aortic
valve replacement system. In the area of transcatheter mitral valve repair, the Company is developing theMONARCmitral repair system.

In
its Critical Care product line, the Company is pursuing the development of minimally invasive hemodynamic monitoring equipment, automated glucose monitoring and other technologies
that collect critical patient information less invasively than current technologies. In its Cardiac Surgery Systems product line, the Company plans to broaden its offering of minimally invasive
surgical technologies and other products to complement its core Heart Valve Therapy product line.

Edwards
Lifesciences' research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in the United States and Israel. The Company's experienced research and
development staff is focused on product design and development, quality, clinical research and regulatory compliance. To pursue primary research efforts, Edwards Lifesciences has developed alliances
with several leading research institutions and universities, and also works with leading clinicians around the world in conducting scientific studies on the Company's existing and developing products.
These studies include clinical trials, which provide data for use











in
regulatory submissions, and post-market approval studies involving applications of Edwards Lifesciences' products.

Proprietary Technology

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to the success of Edwards Lifesciences' business. Edwards Lifesciences also relies
upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain its competitive position.

Edwards
Lifesciences owns more than 1,000 issued United States patents, pending United States patent applications, issued foreign patents and pending foreign patent applications. The
Company also has licensed various United States and foreign patents and patent applications that relate to aspects of the technology incorporated in certain of Edwards Lifesciences' products,
including its heart valves, and annuloplasty rings and systems. Edwards Lifesciences also owns or has rights in United States and foreign patents and patent applications in the field of transcatheter
heart valve repair and replacement. In addition, Edwards Lifesciences owns or has rights in United States and foreign patents and patent applications that cover catheters, systems and methods for
hemodynamic monitoring, and vascular access products.

Edwards
Lifesciences is a party to several license agreements with unrelated third parties pursuant to which it has obtained, for varying terms, the exclusive or
non-exclusive rights to certain patents held by such third parties in consideration for cross licensing rights or royalty payments. Edwards Lifesciences has also licensed certain patent
rights to others.

Edwards
Lifesciences monitors the products of its competitors for possible infringement of Edwards Lifesciences' owned and/or licensed patents. Litigation has been necessary to enforce
certain patent rights held by Edwards Lifesciences, and the Company plans to continue to defend and prosecute its rights with respect to such patents.

Edwards
Lifesciences owns certain United States registered trademarks used in its business. Many Company trademarks have also been registered for use in certain foreign countries where
registration is available and Edwards Lifesciences has determined it is commercially advantageous to do so.

Government Regulation and Other Matters

Regulatory Environment.In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") has responsibility for regulating medical
devices. The FDA
regulates design, development, manufacturing, labeling and record-keeping for medical devices, and reporting of adverse events by manufacturers and users to identify potential problems with marketed
medical devices. Many of the devices that Edwards Lifesciences develops and markets are in a category for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and pre-market
approval requirements. The process of obtaining FDA approval to market a product is resource-intensive, lengthy and costly. FDA review may involve substantial delays that adversely affect the
marketing and sale of Edwards Lifesciences' products.

The
FDA has the authority to halt the distribution of certain medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, or order the repair, replacement or refund of
the costs of such devices. The FDA also may require notification of health professionals and others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public
health. The FDA may enjoin and restrain certain violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act pertaining to medical devices, or initiate action for criminal
prosecution of such violations. Moreover, the FDA administers certain controls over the export of medical devices from the United States and the importation of devices into the United States.

A
number of Edwards Lifesciences' products are pending regulatory approval to begin commercial sales including theEdwards SAPIENTHV in
the United States, and theEdwards SAPIEN XTTHV, theNovaFlexdelivery system andAscendra 2delivery
system in Europe.









Medical device laws are also in effect in most markets around the world including Europe, Japan and many other countries where Edwards Lifesciences does business.
Similar to the regulations imposed by the FDA, the regulations in these countries range from comprehensive device approval requirements for some or all of the Company's products to requests for
product data, certifications or record-keeping, and reporting of adverse events by manufacturers and users to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. The process of obtaining
approval to market a product and/or complying with product data requests can be resource-intensive, lengthy and costly, and such requirements may or may not be more rigorous than those required by the
FDA. Overall, the number and scope of government regulations and requirements are increasing.

Edwards
Lifesciences also is governed by federal, state, local and foreign laws of general applicability, such as those regulating employee health and safety. In addition, Edwards
Lifesciences is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations, including those governing the adverse impact on the environment.

Health Care Initiatives.Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price
regulation and
competitive pricing, are continuing in many countries where Edwards Lifesciences does business, including the United States, Europe and Japan. As a result of these changes, the marketplace has placed
increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies.

Reimbursement
schedules regulate the amount the United States government, through the Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, will reimburse hospitals and
doctors for the inpatient care of persons covered by Medicare. Several legislative proposals in the United States have been advanced that would restrict future funding increases for government-funded
programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.

Over
the years, health care cost containment efforts have prompted domestic hospitals and other customers of medical device manufacturers to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to
enhance purchasing power, and this trend is expected to continue. The medical device industry has also experienced some consolidation, partly in order to offer a broader range of products to large
purchasers. As a result, transactions with customers are larger, more complex and tend to involve more long-term contracts than in the past. The enhanced purchasing power of these larger
customers increases the pressure on product pricing.

Health Care Reform.Government initiatives to slow the rising costs associated with health care and expand access to uninsured
residents of the
United States are being considered by Congress. Some proposals would fund a portion of the cost of expanded health care access through a tax or fee levied on medical device manufacturers, although it
is unlikely that such a tax or fee will be effective in 2010. Any such initiatives could ultimately put pressure on the product pricing and profitability of medical device companies, including Edwards
Lifesciences.

Seasonality

Edwards Lifesciences' quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product introductions, acquisitions, regulatory
approvals, patient and physician holiday schedules, and other factors. Net sales in the third quarter are typically lower than other quarters of the year due to the seasonality of the United States
and European markets, where summer vacation schedules normally result in fewer procedures.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, Edwards Lifesciences had approximately 6,400 employees worldwide, the majority of whom were located at
the Company's headquarters in Irvine, California, and at its manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic. Other major concentrations of employees are located in Europe, Japan
and Singapore. Edwards Lifesciences emphasizes competitive compensation, benefits, equity participation and work environment practices in its efforts to attract and retain qualified personnel, and











employs
a very rigorous talent management system. None of Edwards Lifesciences' North American employees are represented by a labor union. In various countries outside of North America, the Company
interacts with trade unions and work councils that represent a limited number of employees.

