Item 1.    Business



Overview

Edwards Lifesciences Corporation is focused on technologies that treat structural heart disease and critically ill patients. A pioneer
in the development and commercialization of heart valve products, we are the world's leading manufacturer of heart valves and repair products used to replace or repair a patient's diseased or
defective heart valve. We are also a global leader in hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patient's cardiovascular function in the hospital setting.

Cardiovascular
disease is the number-one cause of death in the world, and is the top disease in terms of health care spending in nearly every country. Cardiovascular disease is
progressive in that it tends to worsen over time and often affects an individual's entire circulatory system.

Patients
undergoing treatment for cardiovascular disease may be treated using a variety of our products and technologies. For example, an individual with a heart valve disorder may have
a faulty valve. A clinician may elect to remove the valve and replace it with one of our bioprosthetic surgical tissue heart valves, surgically re-shape and repair the faulty valve with an Edwards
Lifesciences annuloplasty ring, or deploy an Edwards Lifesciences transcatheter valve via a minimally invasive catheter-based system. If a patient undergoes open-heart surgery, our cardiac surgery
systems products may be used while the patient's heart and lung functions are being bypassed, or during minimally invasive valve surgery. Virtually all high-risk patients in the operating room or
intensive care unit are candidates for having their cardiac function monitored by our Critical Care products. If the circulatory problems are in the limbs rather than in the heart, the patient's
procedure may involve some of our vascular products, which include various types of balloon-tipped catheters that are used to remove blood clots from diseased blood vessels.

Segment and Geographical Information

We conduct operations worldwide and are managed in the following geographical regions: United States, Europe, Japan and Rest of World.
All regions sell products that are used to treat advanced cardiovascular disease. Additional segment and geographical information is incorporated herein by reference to Note 17 to









the
"Consolidated Financial Statements." See also the risk factor "Our business is subject to economic, political and other
risks associated with international sales and operations, including risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations" in Part I, Item 1A,
"Risk Factors", for information regarding risks involving our international operations.

Corporate Background

Edwards Lifesciences Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on September 10, 1999. Unless otherwise indicated or otherwise
required by the context, the terms "we," "our," "it," "its," "Company," "Edwards" and "Edwards Lifesciences" refer to Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and its subsidiaries.

Our
principal executive offices are located at One Edwards Way, Irvine, California 92614. The telephone number at that address is (949) 250-2500. We make available, free of charge
on our website located at www.edwards.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as
soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report.

Edwards Lifesciences' Product and Technology Offerings

The following discussion summarizes the main areas of products and technologies we offer to treat advanced cardiovascular disease.
These are categorized into three main areas: Surgical Heart Valve Therapy, Transcatheter Heart Valves, and Critical Care. For more information on net sales from these three main areas, see"Net Sales by Product
Group" under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations."

Surgical Heart Valve Therapy

We are the global leader in heart valve therapy and the world's leading manufacturer of heart valves and repair products, which are
used to replace or repair a patient's diseased or defective heart valve. We produce pericardial valves from biologically inert animal tissue sewn onto proprietary wireform stents.

The
core of our surgical tissue heart valve product line is theCarpentier-Edwards PERIMOUNTpericardial valve, including the line ofPERIMOUNT Magna Easevalves, the newest generation pericardial valves for aortic and mitral replacement. With their proven durability and performance,PERIMOUNTvalves are the most widely prescribed tissue heart valves in
the world. In addition to its replacement valves, we pioneered and are the
worldwide leader in heart valve repair therapies, including annuloplasty rings and systems. We have also developed theEDWARDS INTUITY Valve System, a
minimally invasive aortic heart valve system designed to enable a faster procedure, shorter patient time on cardiopulmonary bypass and a smaller incision.

Cardiac
surgeons and their patients increasingly are seeking less invasive approaches to aortic or mitral valve surgery, which offer a number of potential benefits, including smaller
incisions, less blood loss, quicker recoveries and less scarring. Edwards Lifesciences'ThruPortsystems enable minimal incision valve surgery where
surgeons perform intricate procedures through small incisions, and allow surgeons to tailor procedures based on their preferred surgical approach. We are also a global leader in protection cannulae,
which are used during cardiac surgery in venous drainage, aortic perfusion, venting and cardioplegia delivery.

Sales
of our surgical tissue heart valve products represented approximately 34%, 36% and 40% of our net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Transcatheter Heart Valves

We have leveraged the knowledge and experience from our Surgical Heart Valve portfolio to optimize transcatheter heart valve
replacement technology, designed for the nonsurgical replacement of heart valves.









TheEdwards SAPIEN, Edwards SAPIEN XTandEdwards SAPIEN 3transcatheter aortic heart valves are used to
treat heart valve disease using catheter-based approaches for certain patients deemed at risk for traditional open-heart surgery. Delivered while the heart is beating, these valves can enable patients
to experience a better quality of life sooner than patients receiving alternative therapies. We began offering our Transcatheter Heart Valves to patients commercially in Europe in 2007, in the United
States in 2011, and in Japan in 2013. As of December 31, 2013, our transcatheter aortic heart valves were available for sale in over 60 countries. Sales of our Transcatheter Heart Valves
represented approximately 35%, 29% and 20% of our net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Critical Care

We are a world leader in hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patient's heart function in surgical and intensive care
settings. Hemodynamic monitoring enables a clinician to balance the oxygen supply and demand of a critically ill patient and plays an important role in ensuring tissue and organ perfusion, and
ultimately patient outcomes and survival.

Our
hemodynamic monitoring technologies are used before, during and after open-heart, major vascular, major abdominal, neurological and orthopedic surgical procedures, as well as for
acutely ill patients with conditions such as sepsis, acute respiratory distress syndrome and multi-organ failure. We manufacture theFloTraccontinuous
cardiac output monitoring system, a minimally invasive cardiac monitoring technology for goal-directed hemodynamic optimization. Our hemodynamic monitoring product line also includes theSwan-Ganzline
of pulmonary artery catheters, and thePreSepcontinuous venous oximetry catheter for
measuring central venous oxygen saturation. OurVolumeViewsensor-catheter set measures a critically ill patient's volumetric hemodynamic parameters,
while theEV1000clinical monitoring platform displays a patient's physiologic status and integrates many of our sensors and catheters into one
intuitive platform.

In
2012, we extended our Critical Care product offering with the acquisition of a non-invasive hemodynamic monitoring product line. We plan to integrate this product,ClearSight, into ourEV1000clinical platform in 2014.

We
are also the global leader in disposable pressure monitoring devices and innovative closed blood sampling systems to help protect both patients and clinicians from the risk of
infection. Sales of our hemodynamic monitoring devices represented approximately 23%, 26% and 29% of our net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

We
manufacture and sell a variety of peripheral vascular products used to treat endolumenal occlusive disease, including balloon-tipped, catheter-based embolectomy products, surgical
clips and clamps. OurFogartyline of embolectomy catheters has been an industry standard for removing blood clots from peripheral blood vessels for
more than 40 years.

Competition

The medical device industry is highly competitive. We compete with many companies, including divisions of companies much larger than us
and smaller companies that compete in specific product lines or certain geographies. Furthermore, new product development and technological change characterize the areas in which we compete. Our
present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including drug
therapies. We must continue to develop and acquire new products and technologies to remain competitive in the cardiovascular medical device industry. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis
of clinical superiority and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and cost-effectiveness.

The
cardiovascular segment of the medical device industry is dynamic and subject to significant change due to cost-of-care considerations, regulatory reform, industry and customer
consolidation, and evolving









patient
needs. The ability to provide products and technologies that demonstrate value and improve clinical outcomes is becoming increasingly important for medical device manufacturers.

We
believe that we are globally one of the leading competitors in each of our major product lines. In Surgical and Transcatheter Heart Valve therapies, our primary competitors include
St. Jude Medical, Inc., Medtronic, Inc. and Sorin Group. In Critical Care, we compete primarily with a variety of companies in specific product lines including ICU
Medical, Inc., PULSION Medical Systems AG and LiDCO Group PLC.

Sales and Marketing

We have a number of broad product lines that require a sales and marketing strategy tailored to our customers in order to deliver
high-quality, cost-effective products and technologies to all of our customers worldwide. Our portfolio includes some of the most recognizable product brands in cardiovascular devices today. To help
broaden awareness of our products and technologies, we conduct educational symposia and provide training to our customers.

Because
of the diverse global needs of the population that we serve, our distribution system consists of a direct sales force as well as independent distributors. We are not dependent on
any single customer and no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net sales in 2013.

Sales
personnel work closely with the customers who purchase our products, which primarily include physicians, nurses and other clinical personnel, but can also include decision makers
such as material managers, biomedical staff, hospital administrators, purchasing managers and ministries of health. Also, for certain of our products and where appropriate, our sales force actively
pursues approval of Edwards Lifesciences as a qualified supplier for hospital group purchasing organizations ("GPOs") that negotiate contracts with suppliers of medical products. Additionally, we have
contracts with a number of United States national and regional buying groups.

United States.In the United States, we sell substantially all of our products through our direct sales force. In 2013, 46% of
our reported sales
were derived from sales to customers in the United States.

International.In 2013, 54% of our reported sales were derived internationally through our direct sales force and independent
distributors. Of the
total international sales, 56% were in Europe, 22% were in Japan, and 22% were in Rest of World. We sell our products in approximately 100 countries, and our major international markets include
Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom. A majority of the sales and marketing approach outside the United States is direct sales,
although it varies depending on each country's size and state of development. The international markets in which we choose to market our products are also influenced by the existence of, or potential
for, adequate reimbursement to hospitals by national healthcare systems.

Raw Materials and Manufacturing

We operate manufacturing facilities in various geographies around the world. Our Surgical Heart Valve Therapy and Transcatheter Heart
Valve products are manufactured in California and Utah in the United States, Switzerland, and Singapore. Critical Care products are manufactured primarily in our facilities located in Puerto Rico and
the Dominican Republic.

We
use a diverse and broad range of raw and organic materials in the design, development and manufacture of our products. Our non-implantable products are manufactured from man-made raw
materials including resins, chemicals, electronics and metals. Most of our Surgical Heart Valve Therapy and Transcatheter Heart Valve products are manufactured from natural tissues harvested from
animal tissue, as well as man-made materials. We purchase certain materials and components used in manufacturing our products from external suppliers. In addition, we purchase certain supplies from
single sources for reasons of









quality
assurance, sole source availability, cost effectiveness or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements.

We
work closely with our suppliers to mitigate risk and assure continuity of supply while maintaining uncompromised quality and reliability. Alternative supplier options are generally
considered and identified, although we do not typically pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources due to the strength of our existing supplier relationships and the time and expense
associated with the regulatory validation process.

We
follow rigorous sourcing and manufacturing procedures intended to safeguard humans from potential risks associated with diseases such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy ("BSE").
International health and regulatory authorities have given guidance identifying three factors contributing to the control of BSE: source of animals, nature of tissue used and manufacturing process
controls. In the countries in which we sell our products, we comply with all current global guidelines regarding risks for products intended to be implanted in humans. We obtain bovine tissue used in
our pericardial tissue valve products only from sources within the United States and Australia, where strong control measures and surveillance programs exist. In addition, bovine tissue used in our
pericardial tissue valve products is from tissue types considered by global health and regulatory organizations to have shown no risk of infectibility. Our manufacturing and sterilization processes
are designed to render tissue biologically safe from all known infectious agents and viruses, and exceed the worldwide standard for sterile medical products.

Quality Assurance

We are committed to providing quality products that comply with United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and other applicable
regulations to our customers. To meet this commitment, we have implemented modern quality systems and concepts throughout the organization. The quality system starts with the initial product
specification and continues through the design of the product, component specification processes, and the manufacturing, sales and servicing of the product. The quality system is intended to design
quality into products and utilizes continuous improvement concepts, including Lean Six Sigma Principles, throughout the product lifecycle.

Our
operations are certified under FDA and all applicable international quality systems standards, such as International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") 13485. These standards
require, among other items, quality system controls that are applied to product design, component material, suppliers and manufacturing operations. These regulatory approvals and ISO certifications
can be obtained only after a complete audit of a company's quality system has been conducted by regulatory or independent outside auditor. Periodic reexamination by an independent outside auditor is
required to maintain these certifications.

Environmental Health and Safety

We are committed to a safe and healthy workplace and the promotion of environmental excellence in our own communities and worldwide.
Through our Environmental Health and Safety function, we facilitate compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and monitor performance against these requirements at all levels of our
organization. In order to measure performance, we monitor a number of metrics, which include the generation of both regulated and non-regulated waste, emissions of air toxics, energy usage and lost
time incidents in our production activities. Each of our manufacturing sites is evaluated regularly with respect to a broad range of Environmental Health and Safety criteria.

Research and Development

We are engaged in ongoing research and development to deliver clinically advanced new products, to enhance the effectiveness, ease of
use, safety and reliability of our current leading products, and to expand the applications of our products as appropriate. We focus on opportunities within specific areas of structural heart disease
and critical care monitoring, and we are dedicated to developing novel technologies to better enable clinicians to treat patients who suffer from the disease.









We
invested $323.0 million in research and development in 2013, $291.3 million in 2012, and $246.3 million in 2011 (15.8%, 15.3% and 14.7% of net sales,
respectively). A significant portion of our research and development investment has been applied to extend and defend our leadership position in transcatheter heart valve replacement technologies,
surgical tissue heart valves, heart valve repair therapies, and hemodynamic monitoring products. Additionally, we dedicate a sizable portion of our research and development investment to developing
advanced technologies designed to address unmet clinical needs within the area of structural heart disease.

We
are investing substantially in the development of transcatheter heart valve technologies designed to treat heart valve disease using catheter-based approaches. In the area of
transcatheter aortic valve replacement ("TAVR"), we are developing a repositionable, self-expanding transcatheter heart valve system, theEdwards
CENTERAtranscatheter valve system, in addition to next-generation balloon-expandable valves. We are also making significant investment in the development of transcatheter
heart valve technologies designed to treat mitral valve disease.

Surgical
Heart Valve Therapy development programs include theEDWARDS INTUITY Elite Valve System, a next-generation minimally invasive
aortic heart valve system, andGLX, an advanced tissue platform designed to improve tissue valve durability and ease of use. We also plan to broaden our
offering of minimally invasive surgical technologies and other products to complement our Surgical Heart Valve Therapy products.

In
our Critical Care product line, we are pursuing the development of non-invasive and minimally invasive hemodynamic monitoring systems, including continuous hemodynamic monitoring, and
automated glucose monitoring and other technologies that collect critical patient information to help clinicians make more informed treatment decisions for larger patient populations.

Our
research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in the United States, Israel and the Netherlands. Our experienced research and development staff is
focused on product design and development, quality, clinical research and regulatory compliance. To pursue primary research efforts, we have developed alliances with several leading research
institutions and universities, and also work with leading clinicians around the world in conducting scientific studies on our existing and developing products. These studies include clinical trials,
which provide data for use in regulatory submissions, and post-market approval studies involving applications of our products.

Proprietary Technology

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to the success of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how,
continuing innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position.

We
own more than 2,500 issued United States patents, pending United States patent applications, issued foreign patents and pending foreign patent applications. We also have licensed
various United States and foreign patents and patent applications that relate to aspects of the technology incorporated in certain of our products, including our heart valves, and annuloplasty rings
and systems. We also own or have rights in United States and foreign patents and patent applications in the field of transcatheter heart valve repair and replacement. In addition, we own or have
rights in United States and foreign patents and patent applications that cover catheters, systems and methods for hemodynamic monitoring, and vascular access products.

We
are a party to several license agreements with unrelated third parties pursuant to which we have obtained, for varying terms, the exclusive or non-exclusive rights to certain patents
held by such third parties in consideration for cross-licensing rights and/or royalty payments. We have also licensed certain patent rights to others.

We
monitor the products of our competitors for possible infringement of our owned and/or licensed patents. Litigation has been necessary to enforce certain patent rights held by us, and
we plan to continue to defend and prosecute our rights with respect to such patents.









We own certain United States registered trademarks used in our business. Many of our trademarks have also been registered for use in certain foreign countries
where registration is available and where we have determined it is commercially advantageous to do so.

Government Regulation and Other Matters

Our products and technologies are subject to regulation by numerous domestic and foreign government agencies, including the FDA, and
various laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products and technologies. We are also governed by federal, state, local and
international laws of general applicability, such as those regulating employee health and safety and the protection of the environment. Overall, the amount and scope of domestic and foreign laws and
regulations applicable to our business is increasing.

United States Regulation.In the United States, the FDA has responsibility for regulating medical devices. The FDA regulates
design, development,
testing, clinical studies, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and
record-keeping for medical devices, and reporting of adverse events, recalls, or other field actions by manufacturers and users to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Many of
the devices that we develop and market are in a category for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and pre-market clearance or approval requirements. The process of obtaining
FDA clearance or approval to market a product is resource intensive, lengthy and costly. FDA review may involve substantial delays that adversely affect the marketing and sale of our products. A
number of our products are pending regulatory clearance or approval to begin commercial sales in various markets. Ultimately, the FDA may not authorize the commercial release of a medical device if it
determines the device is not safe and effective or does not meet other standards for clearance. Additionally, even if a product is cleared or approved, the FDA may require testing and surveillance
programs to monitor the effects of these products once commercialized.

In
May 2013, we received a warning letter from the Denver District Office of the FDA resulting from an inspection of our facility in Draper, Utah. The warning letter relates specifically
to the execution of our quality systems within the Cardiac Surgery Systems business, including design and process validation, corrective and preventive actions, finished device acceptance and
packaging, and indicated that we would not receive pre-market approvals for devices reasonably related to those issues until the issues are resolved. Our Utah facility manufactures devices for the
Cardiac Surgery Systems business, such as cannulae and cardioplegia catheters, and also makes devices for our other businesses, including heart valve repair rings and transcatheter heart valve
delivery system components and accessories. We are in the process of implementing the necessary actions to respond to the specific issues addressed in the letter and remain committed to thoroughly
resolving those issues.









We
are also subject to additional laws and regulations that govern our business operations, products and technologies, including:

•federal, state and foreign anti-kickback laws and regulations, which generally prohibit payments to physicians or other
purchasers of medical products as an inducement to purchase a product;•the Stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to a provider that bills these
programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider;•federal and state laws and regulations that protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including
patient records, and restrict the use and disclosure of such information, in particular, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996;•the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires public disclosure of the financial relationships of United States
physicians and teaching hospitals with applicable manufacturers, including medical device, pharmaceutical and biologics companies;•the False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally
funded health care program, and health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payor; and•the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which can be used to prosecute companies in the United States for
arrangements with foreign government officials or other parties outside the United States.

Failure
to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal liability, significant fines or penalties, negative publicity and substantial costs and expenses associated
with investigation and enforcement activities. To assist in our compliance efforts, we adhere to many codes of ethics and conduct regarding our sales and marketing activities in the United States and
other countries in which we operate. In addition, we have in place a dedicated team to improve our internal business compliance programs and policies.

International Regulation.Internationally, the regulation of medical devices is complex. In Europe, our products are subject to
extensive regulatory
requirements. The regulatory regime in the European Union for medical devices became mandatory in June 1998. It requires that medical devices may only be placed on the market if they do not compromise
safety and health when properly installed, maintained and used in accordance with their intended purpose. National laws conforming to the European Union's legislation regulate our products under the
medical devices regulatory system. Although the more variable national requirements under which medical devices were formerly regulated have been substantially replaced by the European Union Medical
Devices Directive, individual nations can still impose unique requirements that may require supplemental submissions. The European Union medical device laws require manufacturers to declare that their
products conform to the essential regulatory requirements after which the products may be placed on the market bearing the CE Mark. Manufacturers' quality systems for products in all but the lowest
risk classification are also subject to certification and audit by an independent notified body. In Europe, particular emphasis is being placed on more sophisticated and faster procedures for the
reporting of adverse events to the competent authorities.

In
Japan, pre-market approval and clinical studies are required as is governmental pricing approval for medical devices. Clinical studies are subject to a stringent "Good Clinical
Practices" standard. Approval time frames from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare vary from simple notifications to review periods of one or more years, depending on the complexity
and risk level of the device. In addition, importation of medical devices into Japan is subject to the "Good Import Practices" regulations. As with any highly regulated market, significant changes in
the regulatory environment could adversely affect future sales.









In
many of the other foreign countries in which we market our products, we may be subject to regulations affecting, among other things:

•product standards and specifications;•packaging requirements;•labeling requirements;•product collection and disposal requirements;•quality system requirements;•import restrictions;•tariffs;•duties; and•tax requirements.

Many
of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. In some regions, the level of government regulation of medical devices
is increasing, which can lengthen time to market and increase registration and approval costs. In many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be
qualified before they can be marketed and considered eligible for reimbursement.

Health Care Initiatives.Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price
regulation and
competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business,
including the United States, Europe and Japan. As a result of these changes, the marketplace has placed increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies. For example,
government programs, private health care insurance and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount of reimbursement they will pay for procedures or treatments, and some
third-party payors require their pre-approval before new or innovative devices or therapies are utilized by patients. These various initiatives have created increased price sensitivity over medical
products generally and may impact demand for our products and technologies.

The
delivery of our products is subject to regulation by the Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") and comparable state and foreign agencies
responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery
of health care items and services. Reimbursement schedules regulate the amount the United States government will reimburse hospitals and doctors for the inpatient care of persons covered by Medicare.
CMS may also review whether and/or under what circumstances a procedure or technology is reimbursable. Several legislative proposals in the United States have been advanced that would restrict future
funding increases for government-funded programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Changes in current reimbursement levels could have an adverse effect on market demand and our pricing flexibility.

Hospital
reimbursement in the United States for TAVR procedures is currently aligned with surgical aortic valve replacement codes. CMS has issued a National Coverage Determination
("NCD") that provides nationwide Medicare coverage of TAVR for patients who either fall within FDA-approved criteria or are part of an approved clinical study. In the United States, physician codes
and payment rates have also been established for TAVR procedures.

Health
care cost containment efforts have also prompted domestic hospitals and other customers of medical device manufacturers to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance
purchasing power, and this trend is expected to continue. The medical device industry has also experienced some consolidation,









partly
in order to offer a broader range of products to large purchasers. As a result, transactions with customers are larger, more complex and tend to involve more long-term contracts than in the
past. These larger customers, due to their enhanced purchasing power, may attempt to increase the pressure on product pricing.

Health Care Reform.In 2010, significant reforms to the health care system were adopted as law in the United States. The law
includes provisions
that, among other things, reduce or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires
the medical device industry to subsidize health care reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. The excise tax increased our operating
expenses. Because other parts of the 2010 health care law remain subject to implementation, the long-term impact on us is uncertain. The new law or any future legislation could reduce medical
procedure volumes, lower reimbursement for our products, and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products.

Seasonality

Our quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product introductions, acquisitions, regulatory approvals,
patient and physician holiday schedules, and other factors. Net sales in the third quarter are typically lower than other quarters of the year due to the seasonality of the United States and European
markets, where summer vacation schedules normally result in fewer medical procedures.

Employees

As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 8,600 employees worldwide, the majority of whom were located in the United States,
the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and Singapore. Other major concentrations of employees are located in Europe and Japan. We emphasize competitive compensation, benefits, equity participation and
work environment practices in our efforts to attract and retain qualified personnel, and employ a rigorous talent management system. None of our North American employees are represented by a labor
union. In various countries outside of North America, we interact with trade unions and work councils that represent a limited number of employees.

