Item 1.    Business



Overview

Edwards Lifesciences Corporation is a global leader in the science of heart valves and hemodynamic monitoring. Driven by a passion to
help patients, the Company partners with clinicians to develop innovative technologies in the areas of structural heart disease and critical care monitoring that enable them to save and enhance lives.

Cardiovascular
disease is the number-one cause of death in the world, and is the top disease in terms of health care spending in nearly every country. Cardiovascular disease
is progressive in that it tends to worsen over time and often affects an individual's entire circulatory system. In its later stages, cardiovascular disease is frequently treated by surgical
interventions or less invasive therapies.

The
products and technologies provided by Edwards Lifesciences to treat advanced cardiovascular disease or critically ill patients are categorized into four main areas: Heart Valve
Therapy; Critical Care; Cardiac Surgery Systems; and Vascular.

Patients
undergoing surgical treatment for cardiovascular disease may be treated using a variety of Edwards Lifesciences' products and technologies. For example, an individual with a
heart valve disorder may have a faulty valve. A clinician may elect to remove the valve and replace it with one of Edwards Lifesciences' bioprosthetic surgical tissue heart valves, surgically
re-shape and repair the faulty valve with an Edwards Lifesciences annuloplasty ring, or deploy an Edwards Lifesciences transcatheter valve via a minimally invasive catheter-based system.
Virtually all high-risk patients in the operating room or intensive care unit are candidates for having their cardiac function monitored by Edwards Lifesciences' Critical Care products. If
a patient undergoes open-heart surgery, Edwards Lifesciences' Cardiac Surgery Systems products may be used while the patient's heart and lung functions are being bypassed, or used during
minimally invasive valve surgery. If the circulatory problems are in the limbs rather than in the heart, the patient's procedure may involve some of Edwards Lifesciences' Vascular products, which
include various types of balloon-tipped catheters that are used to remove blood clots from diseased blood vessels.









Corporate Background

Edwards Lifesciences Corporation was incorporated in Delaware on September 10, 1999. Unless otherwise indicated or otherwise
required by the context, the terms "we," "our," "it," "its," "Company," "Edwards" and "Edwards Lifesciences" refer to Edwards Lifesciences Corporation and its subsidiaries.

Edwards
Lifesciences' principal executive offices are located at One Edwards Way, Irvine, California 92614. The telephone number at that address is (949) 250-2500. The
Company makes available, free of charge on its website located at www.edwards.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Company's
corporate governance guidelines, audit and public policy committee charter, compensation and governance committee charter, and code of business conduct (business practice standards) are also posted on
the Company's website at www.edwards.com under "Investor Relations." The contents of the Company's website are not incorporated by reference into this report.

Edwards Lifesciences' Product and Technology Offerings

The following discussion summarizes the main categories of products and technologies offered by Edwards Lifesciences to treat advanced
cardiovascular disease. For more information on net sales from these four main categories, see"Net Sales by Product Line" under
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Heart Valve Therapy

Edwards Lifesciences is the global leader in heart valve therapy and the world's leading manufacturer of tissue heart valves and repair
products, which are used to replace or repair a patient's diseased or defective heart valve. The Company produces pericardial and porcine valves from biologically inert animal tissue sewn onto
proprietary wireform stents.

The
core of Edwards Lifesciences' surgical tissue heart valve product line is theCarpentier-Edwards PERIMOUNTpericardial valve,
including the line ofPERIMOUNT Magnavalves, the newest generation pericardial valves for aortic and mitral replacement. With their proven durability
and performance,PERIMOUNTvalves are the most widely prescribed tissue heart valves in the world. The durability of Edwards Lifesciences' tissue valves
is extended through the use of its proprietaryThermaFixandXenoLogiXtissue treatment processes.
Edwards Lifesciences also sells porcine valves and stentless tissue valves. In addition to its replacement valves, Edwards Lifesciences pioneered and is the worldwide leader in heart valve repair
therapies, including annuloplasty rings and systems. The Company has continued to extend its leadership in its surgical tissue heart valve product line with the recent introduction of thePERIMOUNT Magna Easevalve and the next generationCarpentier-Edwards Physio IImitral valve repair
ring. Sales of the Company's surgical heart valve products represented approximately 40%, 44% and 46% of the Company's net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Edwards
Lifesciences has leveraged the knowledge and experience from its surgical tissue heart valve portfolio to develop transcatheter heart valve replacement technologies, designed to
treat heart valve disease using catheter-based approaches as opposed to open surgical techniques. For aortic valve replacement, the Company has developed theEdwards
SAPIENtranscatheter heart valve, which is delivered using theRetroFlex 3delivery system for transfemoral approaches, and theAscendradelivery system for transapical approaches. Both are minimal access, beating heart procedures. In late 2011, theEdwards SAPIENvalve with theRetroFlex 3delivery system was approved for use in certain inoperable
patients in the United States. The Company has also developed theEdwards SAPIEN XTtranscatheter heart valve, which is delivered using the lower
profileNovaFlexdelivery system for transfemoral approaches, and theAscendra2delivery system for
transapical approaches. TheEdwards SAPIEN XTvalve is available for sale in Europe and other international markets, and is currently in clinical study
in the United States and Japan. Sales of the Company's









transcatheter
heart valves represented approximately 20%, 14% and 9% of the Company's net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Critical Care

Edwards Lifesciences is a world leader in hemodynamic monitoring systems used to measure a patient's heart function in surgical and
intensive care settings. Hemodynamic monitoring enables a clinician to balance the oxygen supply and demand of a critically ill patient and plays an important role in assuring tissue and organ
perfusion, and ultimately patient survival.

Edwards
Lifesciences' hemodynamic monitoring technologies are utilized before, during and after open-heart, major vascular, major abdominal, neurological and orthopedic
surgical procedures. Edwards Lifesciences manufactures and markets the

Swan-Ganz

line of pulmonary artery catheters, and the

PreSep

continuous venous
oximetry catheter for measuring central venous oxygen saturation. Edwards' hemodynamic monitoring product line also includes
the

PediaSat

oximetry catheter, the first real-time, continuous venous oxygen saturation monitoring device designed specifically for
children. The Company also offers the

FloTrac

continuous cardiac output monitoring system, a minimally invasive cardiac monitoring technology for
goal-directed fluid optimization. The Company's

VolumeView

sensor-catheter set measures a critically ill patient's volumetric hemodynamic
parameters, while the

EV1000

touch-screen clinical monitoring platform displays a patient's physiologic status and integrates many of the Company's
sensors and catheters into one intuitive system. During 2011, the availability of the

EV1000

platform was expanded to include the United States. Edwards
Lifesciences is also the global leader in disposable pressure monitoring devices and innovative closed-loop blood sampling systems to protect both patients and clinicians from the risk of
infection. Sales of the Company's hemodynamic monitoring devices represented approximately 29% of the Company's net sales in 2011 and 2010, and 30% of the Company's net sales in 2009.

Together
with a third party, the Company is developing automated glucose monitoring technologies for intensive care hospital settings. Glycemic control has been advocated in many medical
society guidelines as an important therapy for improving clinical outcomes.

Cardiac Surgery Systems

Cardiac surgeons and their patients increasingly are seeking less invasive approaches to aortic or mitral valve surgery, which offer a
number of benefits, including smaller incisions, less blood loss, quick recoveries and less scarring. Edwards Lifesciences' Cardiac Surgery Systems product line includes theThruPortminimal incision
valve surgery ("MIVS") platform that enables surgeons to perform intricate procedures through small incisions and tailor
procedures based on their preferred surgical approach. TheThruPortsystems portfolio includes soft tissue retractors, aortic occlusion devices,
venting, coronary sinus catheters and reusable instrumentation. To support the adoption of MIVS techniques, the Company offers comprehensive team training, onsite clinical operating room support and
extensive educational platforms. Edwards Lifesciences is also a global leader in protection cannulae, which are used during cardiac surgery in venous drainage, aortic perfusion, venting and
cardioplegia delivery.

Vascular

The pervasive nature of cardiovascular disease means that the circulatory conditions that occur inside the heart are often mirrored in
peripheral blood vessels elsewhere in a patient's body. Atherosclerotic disease is one common condition that involves the thickening of blood vessels and the formation of circulation restricting
plaque, clots and other substances.

Edwards
Lifesciences manufactures and sells a variety of products used to treat endolumenal occlusive disease, including balloon-tipped, catheter-based embolectomy products, surgical
clips and clamps. Edwards Lifesciences'Fogartyline of embolectomy catheters has been an industry standard for removing blood clots from peripheral
blood vessels for more than 40 years.









Competition

The medical device industry is highly competitive. Edwards Lifesciences competes with many companies, ranging from small
start-up enterprises to companies that are larger and more established than Edwards Lifesciences with access to significant financial resources. Furthermore, new product development and
technological change characterize the markets in which Edwards Lifesciences competes. The present or future products of Edwards Lifesciences could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of
technological advances by one or more of Edwards Lifesciences' present or future competitors or by other therapies, including drug therapies. Edwards Lifesciences must continue to develop and acquire
new products and technologies to remain competitive in the cardiovascular medical device industry. Edwards Lifesciences believes that it competes primarily on the basis of clinical superiority and
innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product reliability, performance, customer and sales support, and cost-effectiveness.

The
cardiovascular segment of the medical device industry is dynamic and subject to significant change due to cost-of-care considerations, regulatory reform,
industry and customer consolidation, and evolving patient needs. The ability to provide products and technologies that demonstrate value and improve clinical outcomes is becoming increasingly
important for medical device manufacturers.

Edwards
Lifesciences believes that it is one of the leading competitors, in terms of global market share, in each of its major product lines. The Company's products and technologies face
substantial competition from a number of companies including divisions of companies much larger than Edwards Lifesciences and smaller companies that compete in specific product categories or certain
geographies. In Heart Valve Therapy, the Company's primary competitors include St. Jude Medical, Inc., Medtronic, Inc. and Sorin Group. In Critical Care, Edwards Lifesciences
competes primarily with a variety of companies in specific product categories including ICU Medical, Inc., PULSION Medical Systems AG and LiDCO Group PLC. In Cardiac Surgery Systems,
Edwards Lifesciences competes primarily with Medtronic, Inc. In Vascular, Edwards Lifesciences competes with a wide variety of mostly smaller companies.

Sales and Marketing

Edwards Lifesciences has a number of broad product lines that require a sales and marketing strategy tailored to its customers in order
to deliver high-quality, cost-effective products and technologies to all of its customers worldwide. Edwards Lifesciences' portfolio includes some of the most recognizable
product brands in cardiovascular devices today. To help broaden awareness of the Company's products and technologies, Edwards Lifesciences conducts educational symposia and provides training to its
customers.

Because
of the diverse global needs of the population that Edwards Lifesciences serves, the Company's distribution system consists of a direct sales force as well as independent
distributors. Edwards Lifesciences is not dependent on any single customer and no single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's net sales in 2011.

Sales
personnel work closely with the primary decision makers who purchase Edwards Lifesciences' products, which primarily include physicians, but can also include material managers,
nurses, biomedical staff, hospital administrators, purchasing managers and ministries of health. Also, for certain of its products and where appropriate, the Company's sales force actively pursues
approval of Edwards Lifesciences as a qualified supplier for hospital group purchasing organizations ("GPOs") that negotiate contracts with suppliers of medical products. Additionally, Edwards
Lifesciences has contracts with a number of United States national and regional buying groups.

United States.In the United States, Edwards Lifesciences sells substantially all of its products through its direct sales
force. In 2011, 36% of
Edwards Lifesciences' reported sales were derived from sales to customers in the United States.

International.In 2011, 64% of Edwards Lifesciences' reported sales were derived internationally through its direct sales force
and independent
distributors. Of the total international sales, 54% were in









Europe,
26% were in Japan, and 20% were in Rest of World. Edwards Lifesciences sells its products in approximately 100 countries, and its major international markets include Australia, Belgium,
Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain and United Kingdom. A majority of the sales and marketing approach outside the United States is direct sales, although it varies
depending on each country's size and state of development. The international markets in which the Company chooses to market its products are also influenced by the existence of, or potential for,
adequate product reimbursement at the country level.

Raw Materials and Manufacturing

Edwards Lifesciences operates manufacturing facilities in various geographies around the world. The Company maintains heart valve
manufacturing facilities in California, Switzerland and Singapore. Critical Care products are manufactured primarily in the Company's facilities located in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic.
Edwards' Cardiac Surgery Systems and Vascular products are manufactured primarily in Utah and Puerto Rico, respectively.

Edwards
Lifesciences uses a diverse and broad range of raw and organic materials in the design, development and manufacture of its products. Edwards Lifesciences'
non-implantable products are manufactured from man-made raw materials including resins, chemicals, electronics and metal. Most of Edwards Lifesciences' Heart Valve Therapy
products are manufactured from natural tissues harvested from animal tissue, as well as man-made materials. The Company purchases certain materials and components used in manufacturing its
products from external suppliers. In addition, Edwards Lifesciences purchases certain supplies from single sources for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, cost effectiveness or
constraints resulting from regulatory requirements.

Edwards
Lifesciences works closely with its suppliers to mitigate risk and assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. Alternative supplier options are
generally considered and identified, although the Company does not typically pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources due to the strength of its existing supplier relationships and the
time and expense associated with the regulatory validation process.

Edwards
Lifesciences follows rigorous sourcing and manufacturing procedures intended to safeguard humans from potential risks associated with diseases such as bovine spongiform
encephalopathy ("BSE"). International health and regulatory authorities have given guidance identifying three factors contributing to the control of BSE: source of animals, nature of tissue used and
manufacturing process controls. In the countries in which the Company sells its products, it complies with all current global guidelines regarding risks for products intended to be implanted in
humans. The Company obtains bovine tissue used in its pericardial tissue valve products only from sources within the United States and Australia, where strong control measures and surveillance
programs exist. In addition, bovine tissue used in the Company's pericardial tissue valve products is from tissue types considered by global health and regulatory organizations to have shown no risk
of infectibility. The Company's manufacturing and sterilization processes are designed to render tissue biologically safe from all known infectious agents and viruses, and exceed the worldwide
standard for sterile medical products. See"Risk Factors"contained herein.

Quality Assurance

Edwards Lifesciences is committed to providing quality products to its customers. To meet this commitment, the Company has implemented
modern quality systems and concepts throughout the organization. The quality system starts with the initial product specification and continues through the design of the product, component
specification processes, and the manufacturing, sales and servicing of the product. The quality system is intended to incorporate quality into products and utilizes continuous improvement concepts
throughout the product lifecycle.









Edwards
Lifesciences' operations are certified under applicable international quality systems standards, such as International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") 9000 and
ISO 13485. These standards require, among other items, quality system controls that are applied to product design, component material, suppliers and manufacturing operations. These ISO
certifications can be obtained only after a complete audit of a company's quality system has been conducted by an independent outside auditor. Periodic reexamination by an independent outside auditor
is required to maintain these certifications.

Environmental Health and Safety

Edwards Lifesciences is committed to a safe and healthy workplace and the promotion of environmental excellence in its own communities
and worldwide. Through its Environmental Health and Safety function, the Company facilitates compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and monitors performance against these requirements at
all levels of its organization. In order to measure performance, the Company monitors a number of metrics, which include the generation of both regulated and non-regulated waste, emissions
of air toxics, energy usage and lost time incidents in the Company's production activities. Each of the Company's manufacturing sites is evaluated regularly with respect to a broad range of
Environmental Health and Safety criteria.

Research and Development

Edwards Lifesciences is engaged in ongoing research and development to deliver clinically advanced new products, to enhance the
effectiveness, ease of use, safety and reliability of its current leading products, and to expand the applications of its products as appropriate. Edwards Lifesciences focuses on opportunities within
specific areas of cardiovascular disease and critical care monitoring, and is dedicated to developing novel technologies to better enable clinicians to treat patients who suffer from the disease.

The
Company invested $246.3 million in research and development in 2011, $204.4 million in 2010, and $175.5 million in 2009 (14.7%, 14.1% and 13.3% of net sales,
respectively). A significant portion of the Company's research and development investment has been applied to extend and defend its leadership position in transcatheter heart valve replacement
technologies, surgical tissue heart valves, heart valve repair therapies, and hemodynamic monitoring products. Additionally, the Company dedicates a sizable portion of its research and development
investment to developing advanced technologies designed to address unmet clinical needs within the area of structural heart disease.

Edwards
Lifesciences is investing substantially in the development of transcatheter heart valve technologies designed to treat heart valve disease using a catheter-based approach as
opposed to open surgical techniques. In the area of transcatheter aortic valve replacement, the Company is developing a repositionable, self-expanding transcatheter heart valve system, theEdwards CENTERAvalve, in addition to its next generation balloon-expandable valve, theEdwards SAPIEN
3.Surgical heart valve therapy development programs include theEDWARDS INTUITY Valve System, a minimally invasive aortic heart
valve system designed to enable a faster procedure, shorter patient time on cardiopulmonary bypass and a smaller incision.

In
its Critical Care product line, the Company is pursuing the development of minimally invasive hemodynamic monitoring systems, automated glucose monitoring and other technologies that
collect critical patient information less invasively than current technologies. In its Cardiac Surgery Systems product line, the Company plans to broaden its offering of minimally invasive surgical
technologies and other products to complement its surgical heart valve therapy products.

Edwards
Lifesciences' research and development activities are conducted primarily in facilities located in the United States and Israel. The Company's experienced research and
development staff is focused on product design and development, quality, clinical research and regulatory compliance. To pursue primary research efforts, Edwards Lifesciences has developed alliances
with several leading research institutions and universities, and also works with leading clinicians around the world in conducting scientific studies on the Company's existing and developing products.
These studies include clinical trials, which provide data for use in regulatory submissions, and post-market approval studies involving applications of Edwards Lifesciences' products.









Proprietary Technology

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to the success of Edwards Lifesciences' business. Edwards Lifesciences also relies
upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain its competitive position.

Edwards
Lifesciences owns more than 1,000 issued United States patents, pending United States patent applications, issued foreign patents and pending foreign patent applications. The
Company also has licensed various United States and foreign patents and patent applications that relate to aspects of the technology incorporated in certain of Edwards Lifesciences' products,
including its heart valves, and annuloplasty rings and systems. Edwards Lifesciences also owns or has rights in United States and foreign patents and patent applications in the field of transcatheter
heart valve repair and replacement. In addition, Edwards Lifesciences owns or has rights in United States and foreign patents and patent applications that cover catheters, systems and methods for
hemodynamic monitoring, and vascular access products.

Edwards
Lifesciences is a party to several license agreements with unrelated third parties pursuant to which it has obtained, for varying terms, the exclusive or
non-exclusive rights to certain patents held by
such third parties in consideration for cross licensing rights or royalty payments. Edwards Lifesciences has also licensed certain patent rights to others.

Edwards
Lifesciences monitors the products of its competitors for possible infringement of Edwards Lifesciences' owned and/or licensed patents. Litigation has been necessary to enforce
certain patent rights held by Edwards Lifesciences, and the Company plans to continue to defend and prosecute its rights with respect to such patents.

Edwards
Lifesciences owns certain United States registered trademarks used in its business. Many Company trademarks have also been registered for use in certain foreign countries where
registration is available and Edwards Lifesciences has determined it is commercially advantageous to do so.

Government Regulation and Other Matters

The Company's products and technologies are subject to regulation by numerous domestic and foreign government agencies, including the
United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), and various laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of the Company's products
and technologies. The Company is also governed by federal, state, local and international laws of general applicability, such as those regulating employee health and safety and the protection of the
environment. Overall, the amount and scope of domestic and foreign laws and regulations applicable to the Company's business is increasing.

United States Regulation.In the United States, the FDA has responsibility for regulating medical devices. The FDA regulates
design, development,
testing, clinical studies, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and record-keeping for medical devices, and reporting of adverse events, recalls, or other field actions by manufacturers and users to
identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Many of the devices that Edwards Lifesciences develops and markets are in a category for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical
investigation and pre-market clearance or approval requirements. The process of obtaining FDA clearance or approval to market a product is resource intensive, lengthy and costly. FDA
review may involve substantial delays that adversely affect the marketing and sale of Edwards Lifesciences' products. A number of the Company's products are pending regulatory clearance or approval to
begin commercial sales in various markets. Ultimately, the FDA may not authorize the commercial release of a medical device if it determines the device is not safe and effective or does not meet other
standards for clearance. Additionally, even if a product is cleared or approved, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effects of these products once commercialized.

The
FDA has the authority to halt the distribution of certain medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order the repair, replacement or refund of the
costs of such devices, or









preclude
the importation of devices that are or appear violative. The FDA also conducts inspections to determine compliance with the quality system regulations concerning the manufacturing and design
of devices and current medical device reporting regulations, recall regulations, clinical testing regulations, and other requirements. The FDA may withdraw product clearances or approvals due to
failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval and require notification of health professionals and others with regard to medical
devices that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. Additionally, the failure to comply with FDA or comparable regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown
product problems could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances or approvals, seizures, injunctions, recalls, refunds, civil money penalties, or criminal prosecution. The
Company's compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review. Moreover, the FDA and several other United States agencies administer controls over the export of medical
devices from the United States and the importation of devices into the United States, which could also subject the Company to sanctions for noncompliance.

The
Company is also subject to additional laws and regulations that govern its business operations, products and technologies,
including:

•federal, state and foreign anti-kickback laws and regulations, which generally prohibit payments to physicians
or other purchasers of medical products as an inducement to purchase a product;•the Stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to a provider that bills these
programs for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider;•federal and state laws and regulations that protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information, including
patient records, and restrict the use and disclosure of such information, in particular, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996;•the False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally
funded health care program, and health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payor; and•the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which can be used to prosecute companies in the United States for
arrangements with foreign government officials or other parties outside the United States.

Failure
to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal liability, significant fines or penalties, negative publicity and substantial costs and expenses associated
with investigation and enforcement activities. To assist in the Company's compliance efforts, the Company adheres to many codes of ethics and conduct regarding its sales and marketing activities in
the United States and other countries in which it operates. In addition, the Company has in place and works to improve its internal business compliance programs and policies.

International Regulation.Internationally, the regulation of medical devices is complex. In Europe, the Company's products are
subject to extensive
regulatory requirements. The regulatory regime in the European Union for medical devices became mandatory in June 1998. It requires that medical devices may only be placed on the market if they do not
compromise safety and health when properly installed, maintained and used in accordance with their intended purpose. National laws conforming to the European Union's legislation regulate the Company's
products under the medical devices regulatory system. Although the more variable national requirements under which medical devices were formerly regulated have been substantially replaced by the
European Union Medical Devices Directive, individual nations can still impose unique requirements that may require supplemental submissions. The European Union medical device laws require
manufacturers to declare that their products conform to the essential regulatory requirements after which the products may be placed on the market bearing the CE Mark. Manufacturers' quality systems
for products in all but the lowest risk classification are also subject to certification and audit by an independent notified body. In









Europe,
particular emphasis is being placed on more sophisticated and faster procedures for the reporting of adverse events to the competent authorities.

In
Japan, pre-market approval and clinical studies are required as is governmental pricing approval for medical devices. Clinical studies are subject to a stringent "Good
Clinical Practices" standard.
Approval time frames from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare vary from simple notifications to review periods of one or more years, depending on the complexity and risk level of the
device. In addition, importation into Japan of medical devices is subject to the "Good Import Practices" regulations. As with any highly regulated market, significant changes in the regulatory
environment could adversely affect future sales.

In
many of the other foreign countries in which the Company markets its products, the Company may be subject to regulations affecting, among other
things:

•product standards and specifications;•packaging requirements;•labeling requirements;•quality system requirements;•import restrictions;•tariffs;•duties; and•tax requirements.

Many
of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. In some regions, the level of government regulation of medical devices
is increasing, which can lengthen time to market and increase registration and approval costs. In many countries, the national health or social security organizations require the Company's products to
be qualified before they can be marketed and considered eligible for reimbursement.

Health Care Initiatives.Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price
regulation and
competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where
Edwards Lifesciences does business, including the United States, Europe and Japan. As a result of these changes, the marketplace has placed increased emphasis on the delivery of more
cost-effective medical therapies. For example, government programs, private health care insurance and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by limiting the amount
of reimbursement they will pay for procedures or treatments, and some third-party payors require their pre-approval before new or innovative devices or therapies are utilized by patients.
These various initiatives have created increased price sensitivity over medical products generally and may impact demand for the Company's products and technologies.

The
delivery of the Company's products is subject to regulation by the Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") and comparable state and foreign
agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the
delivery of health care items and services. Reimbursement schedules regulate the amount the United States government will reimburse hospitals and doctors for the inpatient care of persons covered by
Medicare. CMS may also review whether and/or under what circumstances a procedure or technology is reimbursable. Several legislative proposals in the United States have been advanced that would
restrict future funding increases for government-funded programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Changes in current reimbursement levels could have an adverse effect on market demand and the
Company's pricing flexibility.









Hospital
reimbursement in the United States for transcatheter aortic valve replacement ("TAVR") procedures is currently aligned with surgical aortic valve replacement codes. In September
2011, CMS initiated a national coverage analysis for TAVR, which was expected to lead to a national coverage determination ("NCD"). In February 2012, CMS issued a draft NCD, and a final NCD is
expected by mid-year 2012. The Company believes a well-written NCD that ensures adequate patient access would be positive for patients and physicians. The Company cannot
predict the outcome of this process, and a negative determination, such as one that restricts the use of its products, could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and
financial condition.

Health
care cost containment efforts have also prompted domestic hospitals and other customers of medical device manufacturers to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance
purchasing power, and this trend is expected to continue. The medical device industry has also experienced some consolidation, partly in order to offer a broader range of products to large purchasers.
As a result, transactions with customers are larger, more complex and tend to involve more long-term contracts than in the past. These larger customers, due to their enhanced purchasing
power, may attempt to increase the pressure on product pricing.

Health Care Reform.In 2010, significant reforms to the healthcare system were adopted as law in the United States. The law
includes provisions that,
among other things, reduce or limit Medicare reimbursement, require all individuals to have health insurance (with limited exceptions) and impose increased taxes. Specifically, the law requires the
medical device industry to subsidize healthcare reform in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on United States sales of most medical devices beginning in 2013. The excise tax will increase the Company's
operating expenses. Because many parts of the 2010 healthcare law remain subject to implementation, the long-term impact on the Company is uncertain. The new law or any future legislation
could reduce medical procedure volumes, lower reimbursement for the Company's products, and impact the demand for the Company's products or the prices at which the Company sells its products.

Puerto Rico Excise Tax.On October 25, 2010, the Puerto Rican government enacted a new tax law effective for transactions
occurring after
December 31, 2010. The law, Act 154, modifies Puerto Rican tax law by imposing a temporary excise tax on intercompany purchases made through 2016 and by adopting a new sourcing rule. The
Company projects that the excise tax impact for 2011 of $6.1 million will be offset by credits available under the implementing excise tax regulations. The financial impact of the new sourcing
rule is not expected to be material.

Seasonality

Edwards Lifesciences' quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product introductions, acquisitions, regulatory
approvals, patient and physician holiday schedules, and other factors. Net sales in the third quarter are typically lower than other quarters of the year due to the seasonality of the United States
and European markets, where summer vacation schedules normally result in fewer procedures.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, Edwards Lifesciences had approximately 7,800 employees worldwide, the majority of whom were located at
the Company's headquarters in Irvine, California, and at its manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic. Other major concentrations of employees are located in Europe, Japan
and Singapore. Edwards Lifesciences emphasizes competitive compensation, benefits, equity participation and work environment practices in its efforts to attract and retain qualified personnel, and
employs a rigorous talent management system. None of Edwards Lifesciences' North American employees are represented by a labor union. In various countries outside of North America, the Company
interacts with trade unions and work councils that represent a limited number of employees.











