
10-K
10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

   [X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
            15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 1, 1995

                                         OR

   [  ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
            15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

      FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM -------------- TO --------------

                      COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 33-6885

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               CALIFORNIA                              77-0019522
    (State or other jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)               Identification No.)

  1585 CHARLESTON ROAD, MOUNTAIN VIEW,                 94043-1225
               CALIFORNIA
(Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 961-4400

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock

    Indicate  by check  mark whether the  registrant: (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.   YES  __X__  NO  _____

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  the  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or   information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.  [  ]

    The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of December 29, 1995 was $4,536,590,592.

    The  number of  shares outstanding  of the  registrant's common  stock as of
December 29, 1995 was 73,170,816.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions of  the  definitive Proxy  Statement  dated  March 1,  1996  to  be
delivered  to shareholders  in connection with  the Notice of  Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be  held on April  10, 1996 are  incorporated by reference  into
Part II.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               



                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

    Adobe Systems Incorporated (the "Company" or "Adobe") develops, markets, and
supports  computer  software  products  and technologies  that  enable  users to
create, display,  manage,  communicate,  and  print  electronic  materials.  The
Company  offers a market-leading line of  application software and type products
for creating and  distributing visually rich  communication materials;  licenses
its  industry-standard  technologies to  major hardware  manufacturers, software
developers, and service providers; and  offers integrated software solutions  to
businesses of all sizes.

    The  Company was incorporated  in California in October  1983. On August 31,
1994, the Company completed its acquisition of Aldus Corporation ("Aldus") after
approval by the shareholders of both companies and the Federal Trade  Commission
("FTC").  The FTC approved  the acquisition after Adobe  agreed to the condition
that the rights to  the Aldus FreeHand program  revert to Altsys Corporation  in
January 1995. Aldus' flagship product was PageMaker, a leading professional page
layout  program for Windows and Macintosh  platforms. On October 28, 1995, Adobe
completed its acquisition  of Frame Technology  Corporation ("Frame")  following
approval  by Frame's shareholders and the  FTC. Frame's key product, FrameMaker,
is used in the  writing and publishing business  to create and prepare  critical
business  and technical documents, such as  books and technical manuals. Both of
these acquisitions were accounted for as poolings of interests and qualified  as
tax-free reorganizations.

    The Company maintains its executive offices and principal facilities at 1585
Charleston  Road, Mountain View, California  94043-1225. Its telephone number is
415-961-4400.  The   Company  also   maintains  a   World  Wide   Web  site   at
http://www.adobe.com.

                               BUSINESS OVERVIEW

    Eleven  years ago,  Adobe and  Aldus developed  the software  that initiated
desktop publishing. As a result of its acquisitions of Aldus in August 1994  and
Frame  and  Ceneca Communications,  Inc. ("Ceneca")  in  October 1995,  Adobe is
uniquely positioned to make  a further dramatic impact  not only on how  society
creates  visually rich information, but also  on how it distributes and accesses
that information electronically.

    While other major software companies deal  in raw words, data, and  numbers,
Adobe software helps people use the computer to express and share their ideas in
imaginative  and meaningful new ways,  whether the choice of  media is static or
dynamic, paper  or electronic.  In  the simplest  terms, Adobe  products  enable
people to create, send, find, view, and print high-impact information.

    Adobe  software  enables users  to  work with  professional  creative tools;
assemble illustrations, images, and text into fully formatted documents;  output
documents  directly to any kind of  printing device; and distribute documents on
paper, video, or compact disc, over an e-mail system, corporate network, on-line
service, or the Internet. Moreover, Adobe software enables users to perform  all
of these tasks across multiple computing environments.

    Adobe's  PostScript page-description  language is accepted  as the worldwide
standard for printing  electronic documents.  More than  5,000 applications  now
support  PostScript  language output  and  are available  for  every significant
computer operating system and hardware configuration, from desktop computers  to
mainframes.

    Today,   Adobe  is  applying  its  expertise  in  PostScript  technology  to
facilitate the  communication  of  electronic  documents  across  platforms  and
networking  schemes while preserving the original  look and feel of the creative
material. This effort is embodied in the Adobe Acrobat family of products, which
not only provides tools for creating, distributing, and accessing visually  rich
documents,  but also is establishing an open, universal file format standard for
electronic publishing.


    Most recently, Adobe announced an enhanced version of Acrobat software  that
will  enable  Internet browsers  and  on-line service  providers  to incorporate
Acrobat technology into their software and services for Internet users. With the
acquisition of Ceneca, the Company also acquired two professional-quality  tools
for  the World  Wide Web to  simplify the  process of creating  and managing Web
sites.

                                    PRODUCTS

APPLICATION PRODUCTS

    Adobe's application products take professional tools once available only  in
massive,  dedicated systems -- or  not available at all --  and puts them on the
desktop. It gives people  the ability to create  and manipulate the elements  of
visual  communication, from photographs  to illustrations to  typefaces to video
footage, and combine them into complete  documents for viewing on the screen  or
printed page.

    Adobe's  flagship applications -- Adobe FrameMaker, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe
PageMaker, Adobe Photoshop, and Adobe Premiere -- established new categories  of
software,  and continue to provide customers with a growing set of sophisticated
features. These products have spawned mini-industries of third-party accelerator
boards, image libraries, special-effects  filters, color and calibration  tools,
and other plug-ins that increase customer value and productivity.

    Adobe  seeks  to  provide  comparable  feature  sets  to  users  in Windows,
Macintosh, and UNIX  environments, and to  increase cross-product  compatibility
and extensibility.

    GRAPHICS

    Used for everything from commercial packaging to fine art, Adobe Illustrator
software  is  a leading  illustration and  page-design  tool. It  simplifies the
creation, manipulation, and  refinement of  artwork with  advanced features  for
editing,  text  handling, color  support, and  other tasks.  It offers  the most
comprehensive  image   support  of   any  program,   plus  built-in   production
capabilities.    Complementary   products    include   Adobe    Dimensions   for
three-dimensional design and Adobe Streamline for line-art conversion.

    IMAGES

    Adobe Photoshop has become the standard photo design and production software
for  prepress,  publishing,  graphics,   and  photography  professionals.   This
electronic darkroom enables users to design artwork for use in print and on-line
publishing.  Users can employ powerful painting  and selection tools, or retouch
and correct  true color  or black-and-white  scanned images  with  image-editing
tools   and  filters.   Accessory  products   such  as   Adobe  Gallery  Effects
special-effects filters and Adobe TextureMaker texture-design software  increase
users' creative choices. Adobe Fetch cataloging software makes it easy to store,
find, and retrieve artwork files for reuse.

    MOTION AND SOUND

    Just  as it enabled  desktop publishing, Adobe  software is now facilitating
the shift toward "desktop broadcasting." For film and video editors,  multimedia
producers, and graphics professionals, Adobe offers high-quality alternatives to
using  expensive, specialized production equipment.  Adobe Premiere software has
become the de facto standard for editing film, video, and multimedia productions
on the desktop. Adobe After Effects and the After Effects Production Bundle give
television and motion-picture professionals a  set of post-production tools  for
video compositing, motion graphics, and special effects.

    PRESENTATIONS

    Adobe  Persuasion software  is a program  for producing  and managing slide,
overhead, and on-screen presentations.  It enables business  users to build  and
automatically  generate  presentations of  any  complexity --  including speaker
notes and audience  handouts --  from information they  gather and  create on  a
personal computer.


    TYPE

    Adobe's  Type 1 font format is  the only truly cross-platform type solution.
More than 2,000 Type 1 typefaces are now available from the Adobe Type  Library,
which is packaged by family and in special collections. An increasing percentage
of  Adobe's type revenue comes  from direct purchases through  the Adobe Type On
Call CD-ROM, a  locked, buy-as-you-go  version of  the library.  The Adobe  Font
Folio  CD-ROM gives design studios, service bureaus, and other professionals the
entire library, unlocked and ready for immediate use.

    Supporting type tools include the Adobe Type Manager ("ATM") utility,  which
eliminates  jagged type  on the  computer screen and  printed page  at any size,
makes Type 1 typefaces available on any printer, and provides access to  Adobe's
multiple  master type technology.  Adobe SuperATM is an  enhanced version of ATM
software that  automatically creates  "substitute fonts"  to simulate  typefaces
missing from a computer.

    Through its Image Club catalog, Adobe offers a wide variety of typefaces, as
well  as clip art, stock images, and  other digital content, directly to desktop
publishers.

    PAGE LAYOUT

    Adobe PageMaker software  makes it  easy to create  sophisticated print  and
electronic  communications  with  powerful  color,  page  design,  printing, and
compatibility features. It offers tools for each person in the publishing cycle:
graphic artists  and designers;  writer,  editors, and  typesetters;  production
artists  and  prepress  professionals.  Adobe  PageMaker  also  allows  users to
generate Hypertext Markup Language ("HTML")  and Adobe Portable Document  Format
("PDF") output for electronic publishing needs.

    DOCUMENT CREATION

    While  Adobe  PageMaker  software  is optimized  for  documents  with varied
graphics content, Adobe FrameMaker software  is most popular for documents  with
long,  consistent content, such as books and technical manuals. Adobe FrameMaker
integrates WYSIWYG word processing, graphics, page layout, tables, long-document
building, equations editing, and conditional  text for maximum user  efficiency,
across computing platforms, and has the ability to output content as either HTML
or  PDF. For organizations that create  large inventories of documents that need
to be structured and managed  enterprise-wide, Adobe FrameMaker + SGML  software
combines  the  functionality  of  Adobe  FrameMaker  with  interactive structure
validation and  Standard Generalized  Markup Language  ("SGML") support  in  one
easy-to-use  environment.  For  sharing  information  electronically,  the high-
fidelity Adobe FrameViewer tool displays Adobe FrameMaker documents.

    CONSUMER PRODUCTS

    As more and more people become information authors, Adobe is leveraging  its
technology   and  worldwide  reseller  channels  to  create  and  market  robust
applications for  small  businesses  and families.  The  consumer  product  line
includes:

    - Adobe PhotoDeluxe for enhancing and personalizing photos.

    - Adobe  Art  Explorer,  a  painting  and  drawing  program  especially  for
      children.

    - Adobe SuperPaint for basic painting, drawing, and image processing.

    - Adobe HomePublisher for basic desktop publishing.

    - Adobe Type Twister for fun text effects.

    ACROBAT PRODUCTS

    Introduced in 1993, Adobe Acrobat  software gives organizations a  universal
creation   and  viewing  tool  for   electronic  documents.  It  offers  maximum
flexibility to information authors, and maximum


distribution options to  information publishers: World  Wide Web, e-mail,  Lotus
Notes  software, corporate  networks, CD-ROMs,  and print-on-demand  systems. In
practice, Adobe Acrobat  software provides time-  and money-saving solutions  to
customers   in  corporate  and  professional  publishing,  government  agencies,
financial services, and other markets.

    The Adobe Acrobat product family allows fully formatted electronic documents
- -- containing distinctive typefaces, color,  graphics, and photographs -- to  be
easily  distributed, accessed, and reused,  regardless of the hardware platform,
operating system, or applications used to create the originals. An Adobe Acrobat
document retains  its  distinctive  look,  regardless  of  operating  system  or
software application. Receivers can view, search, navigate, print, and store the
documents on their existing systems.

    Adobe  Acrobat software describes documents of any size or visual complexity
in a single,  universal format  called the  Portable Document  Format, an  open,
published  specification. Based on the PostScript language, PDF is the only open
format of its kind,  the only approach to  electronic document delivery that  is
independent  of computer  hardware, application software,  operating system, and
networking environment. A PDF file stores  the visual (printable) elements of  a
document,  as  well as  annotations,  hypertext links,  "thumbnail"  page views,
bookmarks, and other features  that make documents easy  to access and  navigate
on-screen.

    To promote acceptance of PDF as a standard, the Adobe Acrobat Reader viewing
tool  is  available  free of  charge  via  the Internet  and  all  major on-line
services. In addition, the reader is bundled with leading software and  hardware
products.

    The  Adobe Acrobat retail product line  includes: Adobe Acrobat Exchange for
creating and sharing basic PDF files; Adobe Acrobat Pro for creating and sharing
the most visually complex PDF files; Adobe Acrobat for Workgroups for a  network
of as many as ten users; Adobe Acrobat Catalog for creating full-text indexes of
PDF  files; Adobe  Acrobat Search  for CD-ROMs, which  offers a  low-cost way to
publish fully indexed, searchable information on compact disc; and Adobe Acrobat
Capture for converting printed  "legacy" documents into  PDF files. Licensed  by
third  parties, Adobe Acrobat Player technology  can be embedded into projection
devices, navigation systems, information panels, and other noncomputer equipment
to enable viewing of PDF files.

    INTERNET PRODUCTS

    Adobe PageMill allows users  to create pages on  the World Wide Web  ("WWW")
without  the necessity  of understanding HTML,  URL addresses,  or various image
file formats. Using a  simple interface, Adobe PageMill  enables WWW authors  to
create  individual pages, forms, and clickable  images in a word processing-like
environment. Adobe PageMill automatically converts the information input by  the
user to standard HTML files which will run on any WWW server.

    Adobe  SiteMill includes all the features of Adobe PageMill and incorporates
WWW site  management  tools. Adobe  SiteMill  displays all  resources  contained
within  a WWW  site and  provides tools  for maintaining  the interrelationships
among those  resources. When  users paste  links, rename  files, or  move  files
between  folders, Adobe SiteMill software will automatically repair all links so
that they point to the correct location. In addition, Adobe SiteMill can  screen
existing WWW sites for errors and provides for easy, one-step correction.

PRINTING AND SYSTEMS

    Adobe's  Printing and Systems group develops  software products based on the
Company's  core   technologies  and   licenses   them  to   original   equipment
manufacturers  ("OEMs"). These products include  Adobe PostScript, Adobe Acrobat
Player and Adobe PrintGear.

    ADOBE POSTSCRIPT SOFTWARE

    The PostScript language is a general-purpose computer language, developed by
Adobe, that describes the appearance of a page to a printer, including  elements
such as text, graphics, and scanned images.


    For  output devices  including printers, slide  recorders, imagesetters, and
screen displays, the PostScript language describes and renders documents of  any
visual complexity with total precision. Since the Company introduced it in 1985,
PostScript  has become  the printing and  imaging technology of  choice for many
multinational corporations, the  vast majority of  professional publishers,  and
the U.S. federal government.

    Today,  more than 60 manufacturers produce  over 300 Adobe PostScript output
devices, offering them  at prices ranging  from less than  $700 to $100,000  and
higher.  All  major  software  applications and  operating  systems  support the
PostScript language standard.

    CONFIGURABLE POSTSCRIPT INTERPRETER

    The Configurable  PostScript Interpreter  ("CPSI") is  an implementation  of
Adobe  PostScript software that resides in  a workstation or a personal computer
rather than in a printer's  embedded controller. CPSI is  also referred to as  a
"software RIP" (Raster Image Processor).

    PRINT-ON-DEMAND SYSTEMS

    Print-on-demand systems use Adobe PostScript technology for final processing
of  the  print file  and typically  use  proprietary technology  during prepress
activities to format and prepare the file for printing.

    ADOBE PRINTGEAR

    Adobe PrintGear  is  a  new  printing architecture  targeted  at  the  small
office/home  office ("SOHO") market. This  imaging technology includes host- and
printer-based components, and features a RISC-like architecture in which a small
set of image  operators are  supported in  the printer,  lowering OEM  component
costs  and raising price  performance to the  consumer. Adobe PrintGear printers
from Adobe OEMs are expected to ship in 1996 at prices under $1,000.

    ADOBE ACROBAT PLAYER

    Adobe Acrobat  Player is  an OEM  version of  Adobe Acrobat  technology.  An
embedded  controller technology, Acrobat Player will allow Adobe OEMs to enhance
information appliances  such as  overhead  projectors, navigation  systems,  and
set-top boxes with the capability to display visually rich information.

    PREPRESS TOOLS

    In  January 1996,  the Company  spun off  its prepress  application products
business to  a  newly-established company,  Luminous  Corporation  ("Luminous").
Under  the terms of  the agreement, Luminous  has acquired or  licensed and will
continue  to  develop,  market,  and  distribute  Adobe's  prepress  application
products.  Adobe will  retain a  minority equity  interest in  Luminous and will
maintain ownership of certain core technologies for Adobe prepress products.

                                  COMPETITION

APPLICATION PRODUCTS

    The markets for  Adobe's application products  are characterized by  intense
competition,  evolving  industry standards,  rapid technology  developments, and
frequent new product introductions.  Adobe's future success  will depend on  its
ability to enhance its existing products, introduce new products on a timely and
cost-effective  basis, meet changing customer  needs, extend its core technology
into new applications, and anticipate or respond to emerging standards and other
technological changes.

    The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in the  personal
computer  applications market include product  features and functions, installed
base, ease of use, product reliability,
and price  and  performance  characteristics.  The  majority  of  the  Company's
authoring  products compete  favorably in  their markets  on the  basis of these
competitive factors. Adobe also believes that its


application products  gain  a  competitive  benefit  from  their  foundation  in
PostScript language technology. However, the Company faces challenges in several
areas  and  expects to  encounter  continued competition  both  from established
companies and  from new  companies  that are  now  developing, or  may  develop,
competing products.

    Price competition is a factor encountered by Adobe in several of its product
categories.  Suppliers in certain segments  of the microcomputer software market
have significantly  reduced prices  through the  use of  "site licenses"  (which
permit  the copying  of a program  and its documentation),  direct price offers,
bundling,  software  suites,  and  discount  pricing  for  large-volume   retail
customers.  The growth of high-volume retailers,  which compete primarily on the
basis of price, has  intensified the competition  among software vendors.  Price
competition  is particularly keen in the  consumer software market, and there is
no assurance that Adobe will be able to maintain current pricing levels.

    Large-scale electronic publishing  systems for  publication and  engineering
departments,  as well as  for other groups  requiring page-composition features,
are  offered  by  several  companies,  including  Interleaf  Inc.  Additionally,
companies  that  develop  word-processing  software  are  incorporating  desktop
publishing features  into  their  products. Finally,  numerous  low-end  desktop
publishing packages are available from a variety of software developers, such as
Serif's  Page Plus and Microsoft's Publisher. As a result, Adobe expects to face
increasing competition in the desktop publishing  market from a number of  other
software  developers, some  of whom may  have greater  financing, marketing, and
technological resources than Adobe, targeting one or more of the various markets
for which Adobe products are designed.

    In recent years, Adobe PageMaker has been subject to increasing competition.
The Windows version of Adobe PageMaker competes with software offered by several
vendors, principally Ventura Publisher, marketed and sold by Corel  Corporation,
and  QuarkXPress for Windows. The Macintosh  version of Adobe PageMaker competes
with software  from a  variety of  independent vendors,  but principally  Quark,
Inc.'s  QuarkXPress. Adobe FrameMaker for the Windows and Macintosh platforms is
subject to competition from many of the same sources as Adobe PageMaker. In  the
UNIX environment, the primary competitors for Adobe FrameMaker are Interleaf for
technical publishing and WordPerfect and Applix for non-technical publishing.

    Adobe  Illustrator  for the  Windows and  Macintosh platforms  competes with
Macromedia's FreeHand,  CorelDraw,  and  Deneba Canvas.  Competition  for  Adobe
Photoshop  on  the Windows  platform is  from  Micrografx Picture  Publisher and
Fractal Design Painter X2.

    Adobe Premiere for the  Windows and Macintosh platforms  is a video  editing
program.  The market  for desktop video  editing is young;  however, the Company
faces competition from products such  as VideoStudio from U-Lead, Digital  Video
Producer  from Asymetrix, MediaMerge from ATI, Razor from In:sync, and VideoShop
from Avid.

    Adobe After Effects is a  motion graphics, digital compositing, and  special
effects  program for  broadcast video  and film  for the  Macintosh. The program
typically retails  for  approximately  $995  and  competes  with  software  from
companies  that include Parallax and Discreet  Logic, costing more than $25,000,
and dedicated hardware  from Quantel and  other companies that  costs more  than
$500,000.

    Competition  in  the  digital  type market  is  intense.  Computer operating
systems are  generally sold  with  a selection  of  typefaces bundled  with  the
operating  system by  the vendor.  Because of this,  it is  difficult to achieve
retail market presence  with other  typeface packages. In  addition, prices  for
retail typeface packages have fallen significantly in recent years.

    Adobe  Persuasion  for the  Windows and  Macintosh  platforms is  a business
presentations program  whose major  competitors include  Microsoft's  PowerPoint
(the  only other such  program to support both  Windows and Macintosh), Software
Publishing's Harvard Graphics  for Windows,  and Lotus'  Freelance Graphics  for
Windows.


    Internet  publishing  is a  market which  is still  in its  infancy. Current
competition for Adobe PageMill  and Adobe SiteMill  arises primarily from  Front
Page for Windows from Vermeer Technologies (acquired by Microsoft Corporation in
January  1996),  NaviPress from  Navisoft (a  division  of America  Online), and
Netscape Navigator Gold and  LiveWire from Netscape.  Over time, competition  in
this area is expected to increase.

    All  the consumer products have  numerous competitors, and price competition
is quite intense in this market.

    Electronic document communication, the market for Adobe Acrobat, is still in
its  infancy.  A  number  of  competing  products  and  technologies  have  been
introduced,  including Common Ground  from Hummingbird (which  acquired No Hands
Software), Replica from Farallon, and Envoy from Novell.

PRINTING AND SYSTEMS

    The Adobe  PostScript  interpreter  faces indirect  competition  from  major
computer  companies  that  have  developed or  may  develop  a  competitive page
description language. However, to date those products use a proprietary  printer
control language that provides less functionality and flexibility than the Adobe
PostScript  interpreter.  The Company  believes that  Hewlett-Packard's LaserJet
product family,  with its  proprietary PCL  page description  language, has  the
largest  installed  base of  any low-cost  laser printer.  Additionally, several
companies have produced  their own implementations  of the PostScript  language,
and  some have announced contracts with  printer manufacturers, most of whom are
not currently licensing Adobe PostScript software products.

    Adobe believes that the principal competitive factors for OEMs in  selecting
a  page description language interpreter  are product capabilities, reliability,
support, engineering  development assistance,  and price.  The Company  believes
that  it competes very favorably in these  areas. The Company also believes that
no other page description language interpreter provides equivalent functionality
together with the broad support of software developers.

    With the Display PostScript  system, the Company  also competes with  screen
imaging  software incorporated in other computer systems' architectures, such as
QuickDraw in  the Macintosh,  GDI in  Windows, and  GPI in  OS/2. Each  computer
platform  has its own native  screen imaging software. In  the Windows, DOS, and
Macintosh platforms, that technology is provided by the operating system vendor.
In the UNIX environment, Display PostScript has been licensed by the substantial
majority of UNIX hardware vendors and has become the de facto standard.

                                   OPERATIONS

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

    Adobe markets  and distributes  its products  directly and  through  various
channels,  including  retailers, systems  integrators, software  developers, and
value-added resellers, as  well as  through OEM and  hardware bundle  customers.
Adobe supports its worldwide distribution network and end-user customers through
international  subsidiaries. Adobe Systems Europe  Ltd., established in 1987, is
headquartered in  Edinburgh, Scotland,  with  subsidiaries in  France,  Germany,
Italy,  the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, and  the United Kingdom. Adobe's Pacific
Rim presence includes Adobe Systems Co., Ltd. -- based in Tokyo and  established
in 1989 -- as well as operations in Australia, Hong Kong, and Mexico.

    Adobe licenses its PostScript software and other printing systems technology
to  computer and  printer manufacturers, who  in turn  distribute their products
worldwide. The Company  derives a  significant portion  of PostScript  royalties
from  international sales of printers, imagesetters, and other output devices by
its OEM customers. More than 6,000 resellers in the United States and Canada and
more than 300  distributors throughout Europe  and the Pacific  Rim offer  Adobe
software applications and type products.


MANUFACTURING

    Adobe's  primary  manufacturing  facilities  are  located  in  Santa  Clara,
California. Manufacturing operations include  duplication of disks, assembly  of
purchased  parts, and  final packaging  for retail  products. Adobe  contracts a
majority of its manufacturing  activities to third parties,  both in the  United
States and in Europe.

    Disk duplication for European language versions of the Company's products is
managed through the European headquarters. The master disks of European-language
versions  of products are forwarded to  McQueen Holdings Limited ("McQueen"), an
affiliate of the Company  in Scotland, which duplicates  the disks, prints,  and
assembles  the components and ships the completed product. Quality control tests
are performed on all duplicate disks and finished products.

    To date, Adobe has not experienced significant difficulties in obtaining raw
materials for the manufacture  of its products or  in the duplication of  disks,
printing,  and assembly of components, although an interruption in production by
a supplier could result in a delay in shipment of Adobe's products. There was no
material backlog of orders as of December 29, 1995.

CUSTOMER SUPPORT AND EDUCATION

    For Adobe's application  software, a  technical support  and services  staff
responds  to customer  queries by  phone and  on-line. The  Company also informs
customers through its bimonthly  ADOBE MAGAZINE and a  growing series of  how-to
books  published  by  Adobe  Press,  a  joint  venture  with  Macmillan Computer
Publishing. In addition, Adobe prepares  and authorizes independent trainers  to
teach  Adobe software classes, sponsors workshops led by its own graphics staff,
interacts with independent user groups, and conducts regular seeding and testing
programs.

INVESTMENT IN NEW MARKETS

    In 1994, Adobe  invested in a  venture capital limited  partnership that  is
chartered  to invest in innovative companies strategic to its software business.
Adobe Ventures L.P. enables  the Company to join  other investors in making  new
products  and services  available to computer  users and in  building new market
opportunities.

                              PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

    Since the  personal computer  software industry  is characterized  by  rapid
technological  change, a continuous  high level of  expenditures is required for
the enhancement of existing products and the development of new products.  Adobe
primarily  develops  its  software internally.  The  Company  sometimes acquires
products developed by others by purchasing  the stock or assets of the  business
entity  that held ownership rights to  the technology. In other instances, Adobe
has licensed or purchased the intellectual property ownership rights of programs
developed by  others with  license or  technology transfer  agreements that  may
obligate  the Company to pay  royalties, typically based on  a percentage of the
revenues generated by those programs.

    During the years ended December 1, 1995, November 25, 1994, and November 26,
1993, the Company's research and  development expenses, including costs  related
to  contract  development,  were  $138.6  million,  $113.8  million,  and $100.2
million, respectively. During each of 1995, 1994, and 1993, the Company acquired
in purchase  transactions one  or more  software developers.  In each  of  these
transactions,  a  portion  of the  purchase  price was  allocated  to in-process
research and development and expensed at  the time of the acquisition. In  1995,
$15.0  million was  expensed related  to Ceneca  Communications, Inc.;  in 1994,
$15.5 million was  expensed related to  LaserTools Corporation and  Compumation,
Incorporated;  and in  1993, $4.3 million  was expensed related  to AH Software,
Inc. (doing business as After Hours Software) and The Company of Science & Art.

                               PRODUCT PROTECTION

    Adobe regards its software as  proprietary and protects it with  copyrights,
patents,  trademarks,  trade secret  laws,  internal and  external nondisclosure
precautions, and restrictions on disclosure and


transferability that are incorporated into its software license agreements.  The
Company  protects the source code of its software programs as trade secrets, and
makes source code available  to OEM customers  only under limited  circumstances
and specific security and confidentiality constraints.

    The  Company's products are generally  licensed to end users  on a "right to
use" basis pursuant to a license  that is nontransferable and restricts the  use
of  the products to the  customer's internal purposes on  a designated number of
printers or computers. The Company also relies on copyright laws and on  "shrink
wrap"  and electronic licenses  that are not  signed by the  end user. Copyright
protection  may  be  unavailable  under  the  laws  of  certain  countries.  The
enforceability   of  "shrink  wrap"   and  electronic  licenses   has  not  been
conclusively determined.  Adobe has  obtained many  patents and  has  registered
numerous trademarks and logos in the United States and foreign countries.

    Policing  unauthorized use of  computer software is  difficult, and software
piracy is  a persistent  problem  for the  software  industry. This  problem  is
particularly acute in international markets. Adobe conducts vigorous anti-piracy
programs.  Adobe products do  not contain copy protection,  except on copies for
international distribution in certain countries. Many products, including  Adobe
PageMaker,   Adobe  Photoshop,   and  Adobe   Illustrator,  incorporate  network
copy-detection features. These capabilities  help encourage compliance with  the
Company's  license  agreements by  alerting  customers about  certain concurrent
usage  problems  over  a  given  network.  Network  copy  detection  has  become
increasingly popular among higher priced software products.

    Adobe  believes  that,  because  computer  software  technology  changes and
develops rapidly,  patent,  trade  secret, and  copyright  protection  are  less
significant  than factors such as the  knowledge, ability, and experience of its
personnel, name  recognition,  contractual relationships,  and  ongoing  product
development.

                                   EMPLOYEES

    As  of December  29, 1995,  Adobe employed  2,319 people,  none of  whom are
represented by a labor union. The Company has not experienced work stoppages and
believes its employee relations are good. Competition in recruiting personnel in
the software industry is intense. Adobe believes its future success will  depend
in  part  on  its  continued  ability  to  recruit  and  retain  highly  skilled
management, marketing, and technical personnel.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    The following table sets forth the location, approximate square footage, and
use of each of  the principal properties  used by the  Company. Except as  where
indicated,  all of the properties  are leased or subleased  by the Company. Such
leases expire at various  times through May 2007.  The annual base rent  expense
for   all  facilities   (including  operating  expenses,   property  taxes,  and
assessments) is currently $21.0 million and is subject to annual adjustment.



    In general,  all facilities  are  in good  condition  and are  operating  at
capacities which range from 75 percent to 100 percent.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    Quantel  Limited, a U.K. corporation, has filed  and served on the Company a
complaint alleging that the Adobe Photoshop program infringes five U.S.  patents
held by Quantel. The complaint was filed in the United States District Court for
the  District of Delaware. Since the complaint arrived without prior notice from
Quantel, the Company is unable at  this time to determine whether the  complaint
has  any  merit.  The Company  is  actively investigating  the  allegations. The
complaint seeks a permanent injunction and unspecified damages.

    On February 6, 1996, a securities  class action complaint was filed  against
Adobe,  certain of its officers and  directors, certain former officers of Frame
Technology Corporation  ("Frame"), Hambrecht  & Quist,  LLP ("H&Q"),  investment
banker  for Frame, and certain H&Q employees, in connection with the drop in the
price of Adobe  stock following its  announcement of financial  results for  the
quarter ended December 1, 1995. The complaint was filed in the Superior Court of
the  State of California, County of Santa  Clara. The complaint alleges that the
defendants misrepresented material adverse information regarding Adobe and Frame
and engaged in a  scheme to defraud investors.  The complaint seeks  unspecified
damages  for  alleged  violations of  California  law. Adobe  believes  that the
allegations against it  and its  officers and  directors are  without merit  and
intends to vigorously defend the lawsuit.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    Not applicable.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

    The  Company's common stock is  traded on The Nasdaq  Stock Market under the
symbol "ADBE." On December 29, 1995, there  were 2,073 holders of record of  the
Company's  common stock.  Because many  of such shares  are held  by brokers and
other institutions on behalf of shareholders, the Company is unable estimate the
total number of shareholders represented by these record holders. The  following
table  sets forth the high and low sales price per share of the Company's common
stock, and the dividends paid per share, for the periods indicated.



    The Company has paid cash dividends  on its common stock each quarter  since
the  second quarter of 1988.  The declaration of future  dividends is within the
discretion of  the  Board of  Directors  of the  Company  and will  depend  upon
business  conditions,  results of  operations,  the financial  condition  of the
Company, and other factors.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    THE FOLLOWING SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (PRESENTED IN  THOUSANDS,
EXCEPT  PER  SHARE AMOUNTS  AND EMPLOYEE  DATA) ARE  DERIVED FROM  THE COMPANY'S
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. THIS DATA SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION  WITH
THE  CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  AND NOTES  THERETO,  AND WITH  ITEM 7.,
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS OF  FINANCIAL  CONDITION AND  RESULTS  OF
OPERATIONS.



- ------------------------
(1) Reflects  incremental  costs incurred  during  1995 in  connection  with the
    acquisition of Frame and the write-off  of acquired in process research  and
    development,  totaling $31.5  million and  $15.0 million,  respectively; and
    during 1994 in connection with the acquisition of Aldus and the write-off of
    acquired in-process  research and  development, totaling  $72.2 million  and
    $15.5  million, respectively.  (For additional  information, see  Note 2 and
    Note 8 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

(2) Adjusted for a two-for-one stock split, effective July 1993.

(3) Amounts prior to the acquisitions of Frame on October 28, 1995 and Aldus  on
    August  31,  1994, have  not been  restated  to reflect  the effects  of the
    poolings of interest.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

    THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION (PRESENTED IN  MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE  AMOUNTS)
SHOULD  BE READ  IN CONJUNCTION WITH  THE CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
NOTES THERETO.

    EXCEPT FOR THE HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN, THIS REPORT ON  FORM
10-K  CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT  INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES.
THE COMPANY'S ACTUAL RESULTS COULD  DIFFER MATERIALLY. FACTORS THAT COULD  CAUSE
OR  CONTRIBUTE  TO  SUCH DIFFERENCES  INCLUDE,  BUT  ARE NOT  LIMITED  TO, THOSE
DISCUSSED IN THE  SECTION ENTITLED "FACTORS  THAT MAY AFFECT  FUTURE RESULTS  OF
OPERATIONS,"  AS WELL AS THOSE DISCUSSED  ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY'S SEC REPORTS
(INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ITS REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 1, 1995).

                             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

    Adobe Systems Incorporated ("Adobe" or the "Company") develops, markets, and
supports computer  software  products  and technologies  that  enable  users  to
create,  display,  manage,  communicate,  and  print  electronic  documents. The
Company licenses  its technology  to major  computer, printing,  and  publishing
suppliers, and markets a line of application software products and type products
for  authoring and editing visually rich  documents. The Company distributes its
products through a network of original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") customers,
distributors  and  dealers,  and  value-added  resellers  ("VARs")  and   system
integrators. The Company has operations in the Americas, Europe, and the Pacific
Rim.

    In   October  1995,  the  Company   acquired  Frame  Technology  Corporation
("Frame"). Frame,  established  in  1986,  developed,  marketed,  and  supported
writing  and publishing software  for the creation  and distribution of critical
business and technical documents. To  effect the combination, approximately  8.5
million  shares of Adobe's common  stock were issued in  exchange for all of the
outstanding common stock of Frame. The  merger was accounted for by the  pooling
of   interests  method,  and  accordingly,  all  annual  and  interim  financial
information prior to the merger has been restated to combine the results of  the
Company  and Frame.  In connection with  the merger, the  Company recorded $11.4
million of merger transaction costs and $21.1 million of restructuring costs  in
the fourth quarter of 1995.

    In  August  1994, the  Company acquired  Aldus Corporation  ("Aldus"). Aldus
began operations  in 1984  and  created computer  software solutions  that  help
people throughout the world effectively communicate information and ideas. Aldus
focused  on three  lines of  business: applications  for the  professional print
publishing,  graphics,  and  prepress  markets;  applications  for  the  general
consumer  market;  and applications  for the  interactive publishing  market. To
effect the  combination, approximately  14.2 million  shares of  Adobe's  common
stock  were issued in exchange for all of the outstanding common stock of Aldus.
The  merger  was  accounted  for  by  the  pooling  of  interests  method,   and
accordingly,  all annual and  interim financial information  prior to the merger
has been restated to combine the results of the Company and Aldus. In connection
with the merger, the Company recorded $14.6 million of merger transaction  costs
and  $57.6 million  of restructuring  costs in  the fourth  quarter of  1994. In
addition, the Company incurred  one-time expenses that are  not included in  the
restructuring  charge but were  related to the  Aldus acquisition. These charges
included the  write-off  of  certain  capitalized  software  development  costs,
transition  personnel bonuses, and relocation expenses among others, and totaled
approximately $10.1 million.

    In January  1996, the  Company spun  off its  prepress applications  product
business  to  a newly  established  company, Luminous  Corporation ("Luminous").
Under the terms  of the agreement,  Luminous has acquired  or licensed and  will
continue  to  develop,  market,  and  distribute  Adobe's  prepress  application
products. Adobe will  retain a  minority equity  interest in  Luminous and  will
maintain  ownership of  certain core  technologies for  Adobe prepress products.
Luminous will  pay royalties  to Adobe  based on  a percentage  of revenue  from
certain  products  for the  next two  years.  Revenue from  prepress application
products was approximately $10.4 million in fiscal 1995.


REVENUE



    Revenue growth  in  1995 and  1994  is  attributable to  increases  in  both
licensing   activity  related  to  the   Company's  PostScript  interpreter  and
application products shipments resulting  from the release  of new and  enhanced
products.  In 1995, the  increase in application  products revenue was partially
offset  by  the  divestiture  of  Aldus   FreeHand  in  January  1995  and   the
discontinuance  of Aldus PhotoStyler  in late 1994,  as further discussed below.
Product unit volume (as opposed to price) growth was the principal factor in the
Company's revenue growth in application products revenue. No customer  accounted
for more than 10 percent of the Company's total revenue in 1995, 1994, or 1993.



    Licensing  revenue is  derived from shipments  by OEM  customers of products
containing the Adobe PostScript interpreter  and the Display PostScript  system.
Such   products  include  printers   in  both  roman   and  Japanese  languages,
imagesetters, and workstations. Licensing revenue is also derived from shipments
of products containing the Configurable  PostScript Interpreter ("CPSI") by  OEM
customers. CPSI is a fully functional PostScript interpreter that resides on the
host  computer system rather  than in a dedicated  controller integrated into an
output device. The configuration  flexibility of CPSI  allows OEMs and  software
developers  to create and market a  variety of PostScript products independently
of controller hardware development.

    The number of units shipped by OEMs continued to grow on an annual basis  in
1995  and 1994. Royalty per unit is  generally calculated as a percentage of the
end user  list  price  of a  printer,  although  there are  some  components  of
licensing  revenue based on a flat dollar  amount per unit that typically do not
change with list  prices. During  this period,  some OEMs  introduced lower  end
printers  or reduced their list prices on  lower end printers, which resulted in
lower royalties per unit on such printers. However, in 1995 and 1994, this trend
was offset by increased demand  for CPSI and, in  1995, by increased demand  for
color capability as well as greater penetration into the Japanese market, all of
which have higher royalties per unit.

    The  Company has seen year-to-year increases  in the number of OEM customers
from which it is  receiving licensing revenue and  believes that such  increases
are  attributable to the continued acceptance of PostScript software, as well as
to the diversification of the Company's customer base across multiple platforms.



    Application products  revenue  is  derived  from  shipments  of  application
software  programs marketed  through retail and  distribution channels; however,
the information products are becoming  more widely distributed through VARs  and
systems integrators.

    Application  products revenue grew in 1995 primarily due to increased demand
for Adobe Photoshop, Adobe  PageMaker, Adobe FrameMaker,  and the Adobe  Acrobat
family  of products. The Company released  Adobe PageMaker 6.0 for the Macintosh
platform late in the third quarter, and for the Windows and Windows 95 platforms
in the fourth quarter. In addition, the Company released Adobe Photoshop 3.0 for
the Windows  platform  in the  first  quarter  and released  new  Adobe  Acrobat
products  or new  versions of  existing products  throughout the  year. The 1995
revenue growth was  partially offset  by the  divestiture of  Aldus FreeHand  in
January 1995 and the discontinuance of Aldus PhotoStyler late in 1994. These two
products aggregated $53.2 million of revenue in 1994.


    In  1994, application products revenue increased as a result of higher sales
of Adobe  Illustrator,  Adobe  Photoshop,  and Adobe  PageMaker,  all  of  which
benefited from the release of new versions in 1994. Adobe FrameMaker also showed
strong  revenue  growth. The  release  of Aldus  FreeHand  4.0 (divested  by the
Company in January  1995) for  Windows and  the Power  Macintosh platforms  also
contributed  to the 1994 revenue increase.  Other factors affecting 1994 revenue
growth include the  release of  localized versions  for the  Japanese market  of
Adobe  Photoshop,  Adobe  Illustrator,  and Adobe  PageMaker  for  the Macintosh
platform; increased  sales of  Adobe Premiere,  a video  editing and  sequencing
tool; and the release of Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Photoshop for selected UNIX
platforms.  Reduced sales for  individual typeface packages  offset a portion of
the revenue growth in 1994.

DIRECT COSTS



    Direct costs include royalties;  amortization of acquired technologies;  and
direct  product, packaging,  and shipping  costs. During  1994 and  1993, direct
costs also included  amortization of  typeface production  costs, which  totaled
$4.8 million and $4.6 million, respectively.

    Gross   margins  are  affected  by  the  mix  of  licensing  revenue  versus
application products  revenue, as  well as  the product  mix within  application
products.  The increase in direct costs, in absolute dollars, has been mitigated
by actions taken by  the Company to  reduce direct costs.  In 1993, the  Company
achieved  lower  per  unit  manufacturing costs  for  certain  products, reduced
royalty agreement  rates, and  reduced typeface  production costs  amortization.
These  actions  also benefited  1995 and  1994. In  addition, the  1995 purchase
relating to  Adobe Photoshop,  as  further discussed  below, resulted  in  lower
direct costs for that product as a percentage of its revenue.

    On March 31, 1995, the Company entered into an agreement with the developers
of the technology underlying its Adobe Photoshop product under which the Company
made  a  lump-sum payment  to the  developers of  $34.5 million  in lieu  of all
royalty obligations  incurred  in  connection  with  the  technology  after  the
beginning of the fourth quarter of 1994. Accordingly, $8.5 million of the amount
paid  to the developers was  applied to accrued royalties  related to the fourth
quarter of 1994 and the 1995 period prior to the execution of the agreement. The
balance of $26.0 million is being amortized over 30 months. This transaction has
been recorded on the  Consolidated Balance Sheets in  "Other assets" as part  of
purchased technology. Prior to this agreement, the Company paid the developers a
royalty  for each  copy of  Adobe Photoshop  sold by  the Company.  To date, the
amortization expense related  to the purchase  has been less  than the  per-copy
royalty expense that would otherwise have been incurred.

    The Company also delivers its type library on its Type On Call CD-ROM media,
and end users wishing to license typeface designs call the Company with a credit
card  number to receive the unlocking code for the desired typeface. This method
of delivery also  contributes to  reduced direct costs.  Other applications  are
also available through the Company's distributors on CD-ROM.

OPERATING EXPENSES



    Research  and  development  expenses  consist  principally  of  salaries and
benefits  for  software  developers,  contracted  development  efforts,  related
facilities  costs,  and  expenses  associated with  computer  equipment  used in
software development.


    Research and development expense has  increased significantly over the  last
three   years  as  the  Company  invested   in  new  technologies,  new  product
development, and the  infrastructure to  support such  activities. The  increase
reflects  the expansion  of the  Company's engineering  staff and  related costs
required to  support  its continued  emphasis  on developing  new  products  and
enhancing  existing  products.  Many of  these  engineers are  working  with OEM
customers to  design  and implement  PostScript  Level 2  devices.  The  Company
continued  working with many  of its OEM customers  in a co-development program.
This allows customers to  be more self-sufficient in  new device development  by
taking  on more  of the  implementation task  themselves rather  than relying so
heavily on  the Company's  engineers. While  this mitigates  certain costs,  the
Company  continues  to  make  significant  investments  in  development  of  its
PostScript and application software products.

    The Company believes that continued investments in research and  development
are necessary to remain competitive in the marketplace, and are directly related
to  continued, timely development of new and enhanced products. Accordingly, the
Company  intends  to  continue   recruiting  and  hiring  experienced   software
developers. While the Company expects that research and development expenditures
in  1996 will  increase in absolute  dollars, such expenditures  are expected to
decline as a percentage of revenue.



    In  the  implementation  of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards
("SFAS")  No. 86,  "Accounting for  the Costs of  Computer Software  to Be Sold,
Leased, or  Otherwise  Marketed,"  software development  expenditures  on  Adobe
products,   after  achieving  technological  feasibility,   were  deemed  to  be
immaterial.  Certain  software  development  expenditures  on  Frame  and  Aldus
products  have been capitalized  and are being  amortized over the  lives of the
respective  products.  In  the  fourth  quarters  of  1995  and  1994,  software
development  expenditures  on  Frame  and  Aldus  products,  respectively, after
reaching technological feasibility, were immaterial and the Company  anticipates
this  trend to continue in  the future. Accordingly, the  fourth quarter of 1994
and all  of  1995  reflect  the additional  expense  of  amortizing  capitalized
software  development costs acquired  with Aldus. All  such capitalized software
development costs acquired with Aldus were  fully amortized at the end of  1995.
Likewise,  the fourth  quarter of 1995  did, and  all of 1996  will, reflect the
additional cost of amortizing capitalized software costs acquired with Frame  in
addition  to  the actual  development expenditures  (classified as  research and
development) made prior to achieving technological feasibility.

    Amortization of capitalized software development costs decreased in 1995  as
a  result of  achieving full amortization  of all  Aldus products by  the end of
1995. The increase in 1994 was due  to the amortization of Adobe PageMaker  5.0,
released  in the second half  of 1993, and the  release of other new application
products. It is expected  that amortization of  software development costs  will
decrease  both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue during 1996 as
the software products acquired with Frame become fully amortized.



    Sales, marketing, and customer  support expenses generally include  salaries
and benefits, sales commissions, travel expenses, and related facility costs for
the  Company's sales,  marketing, customer support,  and distribution personnel.
Sales, marketing,  and  customer support  expenses  also include  the  costs  of
programs  aimed at  increasing revenue,  such as  advertising, trade  shows, and
other market development programs.


    Increases in  sales, marketing,  and customer  support expenses  are due  to
increased  advertising  and promotional  expenditures  for upgrades  of existing
products and further development of  customer and technical support services  to
support  a growing installed base of customers. In 1995, reduced costs resulting
from the restructuring of the combined company after the acquisition of Aldus in
1994 resulted in a decrease in costs  as a percentage of revenue. This  decrease
was  partially  offset by  the effect  of the  acquisition of  Frame as  well as
increased advertising  relating  to  the  release of  Adobe  PageMaker  6.0  and
expenses from several major trade shows.

    Decreased  costs expected to  result from the  restructuring of the combined
company after the acquisition  of Frame will be  partially offset by  continuing
efforts  to  expand  markets  and increase  penetration  into  targeted software
markets, as  well  as  to  respond to  increased  competition  in  the  software
industry.  As a result, 1996 sales, marketing, and customer support expenditures
are expected to decrease from 1995 spending levels as a percentage of revenue.



    General and  administrative expenses  consist  principally of  salaries  and
benefits,  travel expenses,  and related facility  costs for  the finance, human
resources, legal,  information services,  and  administrative personnel  of  the
Company.  General  and administrative  expenses also  include outside  legal and
accounting fees, bad debts, and expenses associated with computer equipment  and
software used in the administration of the business.

    General  and administrative  expenses have  decreased each  year since 1993,
both in  absolute dollars  and as  a  percentage of  revenue. The  1993  expense
reflects  a  higher  spending  level  attributable  to  the  growth  of systems,
processes, and people necessary to support overall increases in the scope of the
Company's operations, as well as additional costs incurred for the legal defense
and  settlement  of  an  Aldus  class-action  securities  lawsuit.  General  and
administrative  spending decreased as a percentage  of revenue in 1994 from 1993
due  to  a  reduction  of   salary  and  depreciation  expense  resulting   from
restructuring  activities,  as  well  as reduced  legal  expenditures.  The 1995
decrease reflects savings related to  the restructuring of the combined  company
after  the  acquisition  of Aldus,  partially  offset  by costs  related  to the
acquisition of Frame and write-downs related to certain intangible assets.

    The Company  expects  general and  administrative  spending in  1996  to  be
slightly lower than 1995 levels as a percentage of revenue.



    During  1995, 1994, and 1993, the  Company acquired in purchase transactions
one or more software developers. In each of these transactions, a portion of the
purchase price  was allocated  to in-process  research and  development and  was
expensed  at the  time of  the acquisitions.  In 1995,  this expense  relates to
Ceneca Communications, Inc.; in 1994, to LaserTools Corporation and Compumation,
Incorporated; and in 1993, to AH  Software, Inc. (doing business as After  Hours
Software) and The Company of Science & Art.



    Merger transaction and restructuring costs for 1995 were $31.5 million. This
represents  charges of $32.5 million less the reversal of $1.0 million of excess
reserves related to restructuring costs recorded in prior years.


    During the fourth quarter of  1995, the Company recorded merger  transaction
and  restructuring  costs  associated with  the  acquisition of  Frame  of $11.4
million and $21.1 million, respectively. The restructuring costs included  $16.4
million  related  to  cash  expenditures  and  noncash  items  of  $4.7 million,
consisting primarily of write-offs of redundant equipment and intangible assets.
As of December 1,  1995, $20.1 million of  the balance in accrued  restructuring
costs  represented  expected  future  cash  expenditures  related  to  the Frame
acquisition, most of which will be spent in 1996.

    To execute the acquisition of Frame, the Company incurred transaction  costs
consisting  principally of  transaction fees for  investment bankers, attorneys,
accountants, financial  printing, and  other related  charges to  negotiate  the
merger,   conduct  financial  and  technical  due  diligence,  file  appropriate
regulatory documents, and solicit shareholder votes.

    As a result of the acquisition  of Frame, certain sales, technical  support,
customer  service, distribution, and administration  functions have been or will
be combined  and/or  reduced. Such  restructuring  costs include  severance  and
outplacement  charges of $11.0  million related to  approximately 200 terminated
employees. Affected  employees received  notification  of their  termination  by
November  8,  1995,  and  final  assignments are  expected  to  be  completed by
mid-1996.

    To facilitate  the  operations of  the  Company, the  combined  organization
migrated to common management information systems, which resulted in a write-off
of  the  book value  of the  abandoned systems,  as well  as of  other redundant
equipment. In addition, certain intangible assets  that will have no benefit  to
the  combined company were written off. The write-off of abandoned equipment and
intangible assets included in restructuring costs was $4.7 million. In addition,
redundant offices  in Europe,  Japan,  Canada, and  the  United States  will  be
eliminated.  Lease and  third-party contract termination  payments totaling $5.4
million, resulting from  the planned closure  of 14 facilities,  are accrued  as
part of the restructuring costs.

    The Company is unable to determine what effects the merger and restructuring
actions will have on future operating results and the financial condition of the
organization.

    During  the fourth quarter of 1994,  the Company recorded merger transaction
and restructuring  costs  associated with  the  acquisition of  Aldus  of  $14.6
million  and $57.6 million, respectively. These  costs included $46.5 million of
current and  future cash  expenditures related  to merger  transaction fees  and
expenses, severance and outplacement for approximately 500 terminated employees,
and  lease  and third-party  contract  termination payments  resulting  from the
planned closure  of 10  facilities.  Noncash items  of $25.7  million  consisted
primarily  of write-offs of  redundant information systems  and equipment and of
duplicate product lines. As a condition  to the acquisition of Aldus,  effective
January  1995,  the  Company  no  longer  sells  and  distributes  FreeHand, the
illustration  program   previously  sold   and  distributed   by  Aldus.   Also,
PhotoStyler,  an image  editing software  tool, was  discontinued in  the fourth
quarter of 1994, as the product  competed with certain existing products of  the
Company.  In  addition to  the  acquisition-related expenses  recognized  in the
restructuring charge,  the  Company  incurred  approximately  $10.1  million  of
certain  one-time  charges that  were  recognized in  operating  expenses. These
charges included  writing off  certain capitalized  software development  costs,
transition  personnel bonuses,  relocation expenses,  and expenses  incurred for
integrating the two companies' benefit plans.

    In the fourth quarter  of 1995, the Company  analyzed the remaining  accrued
restructuring  costs related to  the acquisition of  Aldus. As a  result of this
review, it was  determined that  approximately $0.7  million represented  excess
reserves  and,  therefore,  this amount  was  reversed and  credited  to "Merger
transaction and restructuring costs" in  the Consolidated Statements of  Income.
As  of December 1,  1995, $7.0 million  of the balance  in accrued restructuring
costs represented  expected  future  cash  expenditures  related  to  the  Aldus
acquisition,  primarily related  to payments  under leases  on redundant offices
that will be incurred in future periods.

    Due to  lower  than anticipated  revenues  experienced in  the  first  three
quarters  of 1993, Frame undertook certain  restructuring measures to reduce the
size and scope of its operations and re-


evaluated and redirected its product and distribution strategies. These  actions
resulted  in restructuring  charges totaling  $16.0 million.  In addition, Frame
incurred other  charges  relating to  the  restructuring of  approximately  $9.8
million,  which  consisted  primarily  of  write-offs  of  capitalized software,
obsolete inventory and equipment, and  the settlement of certain  contingencies.
Of  the total restructuring  and other charges, $12.8  million resulted from the
write-off of assets,  which occurred in  1993, and $13.0  million involved  cash
outflows, of which $4.7 million were incurred in 1993.

    During  1994, the  results of  the settlement  of certain  contingencies and
changes in  Frame's  foreign distribution  in  Japan were  more  favorable  than
expected  by approximately $2.2  million. However, these  amounts were offset by
increased estimates  of  costs  related to  facilities  previously  vacated  and
Frame's  decision to curtail  significantly its Irish  operations resulting in a
charge for termination costs, vacated facilities, and fixed asset write-offs. In
1994, Frame paid approximately  $1.6 million in  salary costs and  approximately
$3.3  million related to  the settlement of  certain contingencies, changing its
foreign distribution  in Japan,  the relocation  of its  European  headquarters,
lease payments for vacated facilities, and other charges.

    During  1995,  Frame made  cash payments  of $1.6  million and  $0.2 million
related  to  the  curtailment  of  its  Irish  operations  and  vacated   leased
facilities,  respectively.  In addition,  an analysis  of its  remaining accrued
restructuring costs in the fourth  quarter of 1995 indicated that  approximately
$0.3  million represented excess reserves. This amount was reversed and credited
to "Merger transaction and restructuring  costs" in the Consolidated  Statements
of Income. As of December 1, 1995, $1.1 million remained accrued and represented
anticipated   future  cash  outflows  related   to  lease  payments  on  vacated
facilities.

NONOPERATING INCOME



    Interest, investment, and other  income increased by  $18.9 million in  1995
from  1994 and decreased by $3.4 million in 1994 from 1993. The increase in 1995
from 1994 is  primarily due  to a larger  investment base  and generally  higher
interest  rates in 1995 compared to 1994. In addition, the Company increased the
weighted average days-to-maturity  of its investments  in 1995, which  generated
higher rates of return. Interest and other income was adversely impacted by $1.5
million  in 1994, as the Company sold  several securities (acquired in the Aldus
acquisition) for  losses in  principal created  by increases  in interest  rates
during  1994,  and  for the  write-off  of  an investment  in  a  privately held
enterprise. Interest, investment, and  other income in 1993  included a gain  of
$3.9  million on  the sale  of common  stock held  as an  investment and  a $1.0
million write-off of  an investment  in a privately  held enterprise.  Interest,
investment,  and other  income in 1994  would have  increased approximately $1.0
million absent the 1993  net gain on  the sales of common  stock and the  losses
experienced  in 1994. Such increase is  attributable to increased levels of cash
invested and a slight increase in  interest earned on the Company's  investments
from small increases in prevailing interest rates.

INCOME TAX PROVISION



    The  Company's effective tax  rate in 1995  decreased significantly over the
effective tax rate  of 1994,  due primarily to  smaller one-time,  nondeductible
merger  transaction and restructuring costs and increased tax-exempt income. The
Company's   effective    tax    rate    in    1994    increased    significantly


over  the effective tax  rate of 1993, due  primarily to one-time, nondeductible
merger transaction  and  restructuring costs.  An  analysis of  the  differences
between  the statutory and effective  income tax rates is  provided in Note 9 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER SHARE



    Net income for 1995 represents a 510 percent increase over 1994, while  1994
net income decreased 63 percent from that of 1993. Results of operations in each
of  the three years included several one-time charges that would not normally be
included in the Company's  operating results. A  reconciliation of the  reported
results  of operations  to the  results of  operations excluding  these one-time
charges for each of the years follows.









    Furthermore, the future effective tax  rate is expected to be  approximately
36 percent. Had this rate been in effect in 1995, 1994, and 1993, the net income
per  share, excluding the above one-time  charges, would have been $1.82, $1.36,
and $0.96 per share, respectively.

FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The Company believes that in the  future its results of operations could  be
affected  by various  factors such  as the ability  of the  Company to integrate
Adobe, Aldus, and  Frame product lines;  renegotiation of royalty  arrangements;
delays  in shipment  of the  Company's new  products and  major new  versions of
existing products; market  acceptance of  new products and  upgrades; growth  in
worldwide  personal  computer and  printer  sales and  sales  price adjustments;
consolidation in  the  OEM printer  business;  and adverse  changes  in  general
economic conditions in any of the countries in which the Company does business.

    In  connection with the merger with Frame,  the Company has sought to reduce
combined expenses by  the elimination  of duplicate  or unnecessary  facilities,
employees, marketing programs, and other expenses. The Company believes that the
major  impact of such reductions will occur  in the first and second quarters of
1996 but expects some additional impact  in later quarters of 1996. The  Company
expects  that these  reductions will benefit  future operating  results, but the
reductions could  adversely impact  the  earnings of  the combined  company.  In
addition, the integration of the product lines of the two companies could have a
material  adverse effect on  the results of  operations, including the potential
for charges for certain discontinued business components.

    As previously  stated, effective  January  1, 1995,  the Company  no  longer
markets  FreeHand and discontinued marketing of  PhotoStyler in late 1994. These
two products aggregated  $53.2 million  of revenue  and $35.4  million of  gross
profit  in 1994.  There can  be no assurance  that the  Company will  be able to
continue to replace  this lost  revenue or  that it  will be  able to  do so  as
profitably.

    The  Company's OEM customers  on occasion seek  to renegotiate their royalty
arrangements. The Company evaluates these  requests on a case-by-case basis.  If
an  agreement is  not reached,  a customer may  decide to  pursue other options,
including licensing a  PostScript language compatible  interpreter from a  third
party, which could result in lower licensing revenue for the Company.

    The  Company  derives a  significant portion  of  its revenue  and operating
income from its subsidiaries located in  Europe and the Pacific Rim. While  most
of  the  revenue  of these  subsidiaries  is  denominated in  U.S.  dollars, the
majority of their  expense transactions are  denominated in foreign  currencies,
including  the Japanese yen and most major European currencies. As a result, the
Company's operating  results are  subject to  fluctuations in  foreign  currency
exchange  rates. To date the impact  of such fluctuations has been insignificant
and the  Company has  not engaged  in any  significant activities  to hedge  its
exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.

    The  Company's ability to develop and market products, including upgrades of
currently shipping products, that successfully adapt to current market needs may
also have an impact  on the results  of operations. A  portion of the  Company's
future revenue will come from these products. Delays in


product  introductions could  have an adverse  effect on  the Company's revenue,
earnings, or stock price. The Company cannot determine the ultimate effect  that
these new products or upgrades will have on its sales or results of operations.

    Although the Company generally offers its application products on Macintosh,
Windows,  and UNIX platforms, a majority of  the overall sales of these products
to date has  been for the  Macintosh platform, particularly  for the higher  end
Macintosh  computers.  To  the  extent  that there  is  a  slowdown  of customer
purchases in the higher end Macintosh market or if other operating systems, such
as Windows  95,  become  more  prevalent  among  the  Company's  customers,  the
Company's operating results could be materially adversely affected.

    During  1995,  the  Company  entered the  Internet  market,  which  has only
recently begun  to develop.  The  Internet market  is  rapidly evolving  and  is
characterized  by an increasing number of market entrants who have introduced or
developed products addressing authoring and communication over the Internet.  As
is  typical  in the  case  of a  new and  evolving  industry, demand  and market
acceptance for recently introduced products and  services are subject to a  high
level  of  uncertainty.  The  software  industry  addressing  the  authoring and
electronic publishing requirements of the Internet  is young and has few  proven
products.  Moreover,  critical  issues  concerning  the  commercial  use  of the
Internet (including security,  reliability, cost,  ease of use  and access,  and
quality of service) remain unresolved and may impact the growth of Internet use,
together  with  the software  standards and  electronic  media employed  in such
markets.

    Due to the  factors noted  above, the  Company's future  earnings and  stock
price  may be  subject to  significant volatility,  particularly on  a quarterly
basis. Any shortfall in revenue or  earnings from levels expected by  securities
analysts  could have an immediate and  significant adverse effect on the trading
price of  the Company's  common stock  in any  given period.  Additionally,  the
Company may not learn of such shortfalls until late in the fiscal quarter, which
could  result in an even more immediate  and adverse effect on the trading price
of the Company's  common stock. Finally,  the Company participates  in a  highly
dynamic  industry. In  addition to factors  specific to the  Company, changes in
analysts' earnings  estimates  for  the  Company or  its  industry  and  factors
affecting  the coprorate environment  or the securities  markets in general will
often result in significant volatility of the Company's common stock price.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

    In March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be Disposed Of." SFAS No. 121 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1995, and requires long-lived assets to be evaluated for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of
an asset may not be recoverable. The  Company will adopt SFAS No. 121 in  fiscal
1997  and  does not  expect  its provisions  to have  a  material effect  on the
Company's consolidated results of operations in the year of adoption.

    In October 1995, the  Financial Accounting Standards  Board issued SFAS  No.
123,  "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." SFAS  No. 123 will be effective
for fiscal years beginning  after December 15, 1995,  and will require that  the
Company  either recognize in its consolidated financial statements costs related
to its employee stock-based compensation plans,  such as stock option and  stock
purchase  plans, using a prescribed methodology, or make pro forma disclosure of
such costs in a footnote to the consolidated financial statements.

    The Company expects to continue to  use the intrinsic value based method  of
Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No.  25, as allowed under  SFAS No. 123, to
account for all of  its employee stock-based  compensation plans. Therefore,  in
its consolidated financial statements for fiscal 1997, the Company will make the
required  pro  forma disclosures  in a  footnote  to the  consolidated financial
statements. SFAS  No. 123  is not  expected to  have a  material effect  on  the
Company's consolidated results of operations or financial position.


                              FINANCIAL CONDITION

CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS



    The  Company's cash balances and  short-term investments have increased each
year due to profitable operations, partially offset by expenditures for  capital
outlays  and other investments.  In 1995 and  1994, growth in  cash balances and
short-term investments was reduced by increased merger and acquisition activity.

    Cash equivalents consist of highly  liquid money market instruments. All  of
the   Company's   cash  equivalents   and  short-term   investments,  consisting
principally of  municipal  bonds,  commercial paper,  auction  rate  securities,
United  States  government and  government  agency securities,  and asset-backed
securities, are classified  as available-for-sale under  the provisions of  SFAS
No.  115. The securities are carried at fair value with the unrealized gains and
losses, net of tax, reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity.

NONCURRENT LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



    Included above are shareholders'  equity and, in 1993,  put warrants. As  of
December  1,  1995, the  Company  had no  noncurrent  liabilities. Shareholders'
equity as of December 1, 1995 was $698.4 million, compared to $514.3 million  as
of  November 25, 1994 and $457.2 million  as of November 26, 1993. A significant
portion of the year-to-year increases in shareholders' equity is attributable to
issuance of common  stock under the  Company's stock option  and employee  stock
purchase plans.

    The  Company has paid cash dividends on  its common stock each quarter since
the second quarter  of 1988.  During 1995, the  Company paid  cash dividends  of
$0.20  per common share. The Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one
stock split  on July  9, 1993,  payable  in the  form of  a stock  dividend  for
shareholders  of record as of July 27,  1993, with a distribution date of August
10, 1993. All share and per share  data has been restated to reflect this  stock
split.  The  declaration of  future dividends  is within  the discretion  of the
Company's Board of Directors and  will depend upon business conditions,  results
of operations, the financial condition of the Company, and other factors.

WORKING CAPITAL



    Net  working capital grew to $506.5 million as of December 1, 1995, compared
to $402.8 million  as of  November 25, 1994.  Cash flow  provided by  operations
during 1995 was $177.0 million.

    Expenditures   for  property  and  equipment  totaled  $34.1  million.  Such
expenditures are  expected  to  continue, including  expenditures  for  computer
systems   for   development,   sales  and   marketing,   product   support,  and
administrative staff. In addition, in 1995 the Company paid approximately  $67.4
million  to acquire Ceneca  Communications, Inc., to buy  out its future royalty
obligation with respect to its Adobe Photoshop product, and to invest in various
companies, either directly or through a limited partnership arrangement. In  the
future, additional cash may be used to acquire software products or technologies
complementary  to  the  Company's  business.  Net  cash  provided  by  financing
activities during 1995 was $36.9 million, primarily resulting from the  issuance
of  common stock under employee stock  plans, partially offset by repurchases of
common stock and payment of dividends.


    The Company's  principal commitments  as of  December 1,  1995 consisted  of
obligations  under operating  leases, a  real estate  development agreement, and
various service and lease guarantee agreements with a related party.

    The Company has  entered into a  real estate development  agreement for  the
construction  of an  office facility  and in 1996  will enter  into an operating
lease agreement for this facility. The Company will have the option to  purchase
the  facility at the end of the lease term. In the event the Company chooses not
to exercise this option, the Company is obligated to arrange for the sale of the
facility to an unrelated party and is required to pay the lessor any  difference
between  the net sales proceeds and the lessor's net investment in the facility,
in an amount not to exceed that which would preclude classification of the lease
as an  operating  lease,  approximately  $52.0  million.  The  Company  also  is
required, periodically during the construction period, to deposit funds with the
lessor  to secure  the performance  of its  obligations under  the lease. During
1995, the Company increased its deposits by approximately $33.4 million, and  as
of  December  1,  1995,  the Company's  deposits  under  this  agreement totaled
approximately $35.6 million in United States government treasury notes and money
market mutual  funds. These  deposits  are included  in  "Other assets"  in  the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

    The  Company has also entered into  various agreements with McQueen Holdings
Limited ("McQueen"), a European operating entity, whereby the Company has agreed
to guarantee obligations under operating leases for certain European  facilities
utilized  by McQueen, and to guarantee  certain levels of business between Adobe
and McQueen. The Company currently owns  16 percent of the outstanding stock  in
McQueen.  The Company's  ownership percentage  has increased  over that  of 1994
because McQueen repurchased some of its previously outstanding shares.

    The Company believes  that existing cash,  cash equivalents, and  short-term
investments,   together  with  cash  generated  from  operations,  will  provide
sufficient funds for the Company to meet its operating cash requirements in  the
foreseeable future.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    The  Company's financial statements required by this item are submitted as a
separate section of this Form 10-K. See Item 14.(a)1. for a listing of financial
statements provided in the section titled "FINANCIAL STATEMENTS."

                               SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The following tables (presented in thousands, except per share amounts)  set
forth  quarterly supplementary data for each of the years in the two-year period
ended December 1, 1995  and reflect the  results of the  Company as restated  to
reflect  the acquisitions by the Company of Frame Technology Corporation in 1995
and Aldus Corporation in 1994, both of  which were accounted for as poolings  of
interests. See Note 2 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    There  were  no  disagreements  on  any  matter  of  accounting  principles,
financial statement disclosure, or  auditing scope or  procedure to be  reported
under this item.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

                                   DIRECTORS

    Information  with respect to Directors may be found in the section captioned
"Election of  Directors"  appearing in  the  definitive Proxy  Statement  to  be
delivered  to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be  held  on April  10,  1996. Such  information  is incorporated  herein  by
reference.

                               EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

    The  executive  officers of  the  Company as  of  February 20,  1996  are as
follows:



    A biography of the principal occupations for the past five years of each  of
the executive officers is provided below.

    Dr.  Warnock was a founder  of the Company and has  been its Chairman of the
Board since April 1989. He has been a director and Chief Executive Officer since
1982 and was  its President from  December 1982 through  March 1989. From  April
1978  until founding  the Company,  Dr. Warnock  was Principal  Scientist of the
Imaging Sciences Laboratory  at Xerox Corporation's  Palo Alto Research  Center.
Dr.  Warnock received a  Ph.D. in electrical engineering  from the University of
Utah.

    Dr. Geschke was a founder  of the Company and  has been its President  since
April  1989. and  a director  since 1982.  He was  Chief Operating  Officer from
December 1986 until July  1994, and was Executive  Vice President from  December
1982 through March 1989. Dr. Geschke also served as the Company's Secretary from
December  1982  until  September  1987. From  October  1972  until  founding the
Company, Dr. Geschke was the Manager of the Imaging Sciences Laboratory at Xerox
Corporation's Palo  Alto  Research  Center.  Dr. Geschke  received  a  Ph.D.  in
computer science from Carnegie-Mellon University.

    Mr.  Gray joined the Company upon the closing of the acquisition of Aldus in
August 1994, at which time he was  elected Senior Vice President of the  Company
and  General  Manager, Adobe  Europe. Prior  to  that time,  Mr. Gray  served as
Managing Director of Aldus Europe Limited  since 1986. Mr. Gray is a  co-founder
and,  for the  ten years  prior to joining  Aldus, Managing  Director of McQueen
Holdings Limited, a distributor of computer hardware and software, of which  the
Company  is a  16 percent  shareholder by  virtue of  the acquisition  of Aldus.
Pursuant to  a reorganization  of  the Company's  Europe  entity, Mr.  Gray  was
elected General Manager of Adobe Systems Europe in April 1995.


    Mr.  MacDonald joined the Company  in May 1983 as  Vice President. In August
1989, he was promoted to  Senior Vice President and  in November 1995, to  Chief
Operating Officer. From February 1972 until he joined the Company, Mr. MacDonald
was a Marketing Manager for Hewlett-Packard Company.

    Mr.  Nakao joined the  Company in May  1986 and was  elected Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer,  Treasurer, and  Assistant Secretary in  June 1986.  In
December  1992, he was promoted to Senior  Vice President. From February 1982 to
May 1986, Mr. Nakao was Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer,  and
Assistant  Secretary of Ross  Systems, Inc. From January  1980 to February 1982,
Mr. Nakao was Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer of Dividend
Industries, Inc.

    Mr. Pratt  joined  the  Company  in  May 1988  as  General  Manager  of  the
Application  Products  Division.  In  August  1989,  he  was  promoted  to  Vice
President. In September 1992,  he was promoted to  Senior Vice President and  in
November  1995, to Chief Operating Officer. From October 1987 to April 1988, Mr.
Pratt was  Executive Vice  President  and Chief  Operating Officer  of  Logitech
Corporation. From May 1986 to June 1987, Mr. Pratt was Senior Vice President and
Chief  Operating Officer of Quantum Corporation. From March 1982 through January
1986,  Mr.  Pratt  was  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of   Boschert
Incorporated.

    Ms. Pouliot joined the Company in July 1988 as Associate General Counsel and
became the Corporate Secretary in April 1989. In December 1990, she was promoted
to  General Counsel. In December  1992, she was promoted  to Vice President. Ms.
Pouliot was an associate  at the law  firm of Ware  & Freidenrich from  November
1983 until she joined the Company.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Information  with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Executive Compensation"  appearing  in the  definitive  Proxy Statement  to  be
delivered  to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be  held  on April  10,  1996. Such  information  is incorporated  herein  by
reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Information  with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Security Ownership of  Certain Beneficial Owners  and Management" appearing  in
the  definitive Proxy  Statement to be  delivered to  shareholders in connection
with the  Annual  Meeting  of Shareholders  to  be  held April  10,  1996.  Such
information is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    Information  with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Certain Transactions"  appearing  in  the  definitive  Proxy  Statement  to  be
delivered  to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held April 10, 1996. Such information is incorporated herein by reference.


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a) Documents filed as part of this report

        1.  Financial statements

        FINANCIAL STATEMENT DESCRIPTION

       -Management's Report

       -Independent Auditors' Report

       -Consolidated Balance Sheets
          December 1, 1995 and November 25, 1994

       -Consolidated Statements of Income
          Years Ended December 1, 1995, November 25, 1994, and November 26, 1993

       -Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
          Years Ended December 1, 1995, November 25, 1994, and November 26, 1993

       -Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
          Years Ended December 1, 1995, November 25, 1994, and November 26, 1993

       -Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

       -Report of Ernst &  Young LLP, Independent  Auditors on Frame  Technology
        Corporation

       -Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors on Aldus Corporation

        2.  Financial statement schedule



    Other  financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either
not required,  not applicable,  or  the required  information  is shown  in  the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

        3.  Exhibits






- ------------------------
*Compensatory plan or arrangement

    (b) Reports on Form 8-K

        One  report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 1995, as amended on Form 8-K/A
        dated Novem-
       ber 24, 1995, was filed by  the Company describing the completion of  the
        acquisition  of  Frame  Technology  Corporation  and  incorporating  the
        required financial statements related to the acquisition.


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf  by  the undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized, in  the  City  of
Mountain View, California, on the 20th day of February, 1996.

                                          ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                                          By          /s/ M. BRUCE NAKAO

                                             -----------------------------------
                                                       M. Bruce Nakao,
                                             SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND
                                               ADMINISTRATION, CHIEF FINANCIAL
                                                          OFFICER,
                                             TREASURER, AND ASSISTANT SECRETARY
                                                (PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER)

    Pursuant  to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934, this
report has  been  signed  below  by  the following  persons  on  behalf  of  the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 20th day of February 1996.

                    SIGNATURE                                 TITLE
- --------------------------------------------------  -------------------------

                                                    Chairman of the Board of
                     /s/ JOHN E. WARNOCK             Directors and Chief
   -------------------------------------------       Executive Officer
                 John E. Warnock                     (Principal Executive
                                                     Officer)

                   /s/ CHARLES M. GESCHKE
   -------------------------------------------      President and Director
                Charles M. Geschke

                 /s/ WILLIAM R. HAMBRECHT
   -------------------------------------------      Director
               William R. Hambrecht

                    /s/ ROBERT SEDGEWICK
   -------------------------------------------      Director
                 Robert Sedgewick

                    /s/ DELBERT W. YOCAM
   -------------------------------------------      Director
                 Delbert W. Yocam

                   /s/ WILLIAM J. SPENCER
   -------------------------------------------      Director
                William J. Spencer

                      /s/ GENE P. CARTER
   -------------------------------------------      Director
                  Gene P. Carter

                      /s/ PAUL BRAINERD
   -------------------------------------------      Director
                  Paul Brainerd

                                                    Senior Vice President,
                                                     Finance and Administra-
                      /s/ M. BRUCE NAKAO             tion, Chief Financial
   -------------------------------------------       Officer, Treasurer, and
                  M. Bruce Nakao                     Assistant Secretary
                                                     (Principal Financial
                                                     Officer)

                    /s/ MICHAEL M. CULLY            Vice President and
   -------------------------------------------       Controller (Principal
                 Michael M. Cully                    Accounting Officer)


                             SUMMARY OF TRADEMARKS

    The  following trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated or its subsidiaries,
which may be registered  in certain jurisdictions, are  referenced in this  Form
10-K:

Adobe
Acrobat
Acrobat Capture
Acrobat Catalog
Acrobat Exchange
Acrobat Player
Acrobat Search
After Effects
Aldus
Art Explorer
ATM
Brilliant Screens
ColorBurst
Color Central
Dimensions
Display PostScript
Fetch
Font Folio
Frame
FrameMaker
FrameViewer
Gallery Effects
Home Publisher
Illustrator
Image Club
IntelliDraw
Memory Booster
PageMaker
PageMill
Paint & Publish
Persuasion
PhotoDeluxe
Photoshop
Photostyler
PixelBurst
PostScript
Premiere
PrintGear
ScreenReady
SiteMill
Streamline
SuperATM
SuperPaint
TextureMaker
Type Manager
Type On Call
Type Reunion
Type Twister

    All  other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of
their respective holders.


                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    As  required under Item 8. Financial  Statements and Supplementary Data, the
consolidated financial statements of the  Company are provided in this  separate
section.  The consolidated financial statements included  in this section are as
follows:




                              MANAGEMENT'S REPORT

    Management is  responsible  for  all  the  information  and  representations
contained  in the consolidated  financial statements and  other sections of this
FORM 10-K. Management believes that  the consolidated financial statements  have
been  prepared  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting principles
appropriate in  the  circumstances  to  reflect in  all  material  respects  the
substance of events and transactions that should be included, and that the other
information  in this FORM 10-K is consistent with those statements. In preparing
the consolidated financial statements,  management makes informed judgments  and
estimates  of the expected effects of events and transactions that are currently
being accounted for.

    In meeting  its  responsibility  for the  reliability  of  the  consolidated
financial  statements, management  depends on  the Company's  system of internal
accounting control. This system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that
assets  are  safeguarded  and  transactions  are  executed  in  accordance  with
management's  authorization, and are recorded properly to permit the preparation
of consolidated  financial  statements  in accordance  with  generally  accepted
accounting  principles. In  designing control  procedures, management recognizes
that errors  or  irregularities  may nevertheless  occur.  Also,  estimates  and
judgments  are required  to assess  and balance  the relative  cost and expected
benefits of  the controls.  Management believes  that the  Company's  accounting
controls  provide reasonable assurance that  errors or irregularities that could
be material to the consolidated financial  statements are prevented or would  be
detected  within a timely period by employees in the normal course of performing
their assigned functions.

    The Board of  Directors pursues  its oversight role  for these  consolidated
financial  statements through the Audit Committee,  which is comprised solely of
Directors who are not officers or employees of the Company. The Audit  Committee
meets  with  management periodically  to review  their work  and to  monitor the
discharge of  each of  their responsibilities.  The Audit  Committee also  meets
periodically with KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, the independent auditors, who have free
access  to the  Audit Committee  or the  Board of  Directors, without management
present,  to  discuss  internal  accounting  control,  auditing,  and  financial
reporting matters.

    KPMG  Peat Marwick LLP is engaged to  express an opinion on our consolidated
financial statements. Their opinion is based  on procedures believed by them  to
be  sufficient to provide  reasonable assurance that  the consolidated financial
statements are not materially misleading and do not contain material errors.

                                          M. Bruce Nakao
                                          SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND
                                          ADMINISTRATION, CHIEF FINANCIAL
                                          OFFICER, TREASURER, AND ASSISTANT
                                          SECRETARY

December 19, 1995


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Adobe Systems Incorporated:

    We have  audited  the  accompanying consolidated  balance  sheets  of  Adobe
Systems  Incorporated and subsidiaries  as of December 1,  1995 and November 25,
1994, and the related consolidated  statements of income, shareholders'  equity,
and  cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 1,
1995. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we
also have audited the financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying
index. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement  schedule
are  the responsibility  of the Company's  management. Our  responsibility is to
express an  opinion on  these consolidated  financial statements  and  financial
statement  schedule  based on  our  audits. We  did  not audit  the consolidated
financial statements of Frame Technology Corporation, a company acquired by  the
Company  in a business combination  accounted for as a  pooling of interests, as
described in Note 2 to  the consolidated financial statements, which  statements
reflect  total assets constituting 12 percent as of November 25, 1994, and total
revenues constituting 12 and 10 percent  in fiscal 1994 and 1993,  respectively,
of  the  related consolidated  totals. We  also did  not audit  the consolidated
financial statements of Aldus Corporation, a company acquired by the Company  in
a  business combination accounted for as a pooling of interests, as described in
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, which statements reflect  total
revenues  constituting  36 percent  of  consolidated fiscal  1993  revenues. The
statements of Frame Technology Corporation and Aldus Corporation were audited by
other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar
as it relates to the amounts included for Frame Technology Corporation and Aldus
Corporation, is based solely upon the reports of the other auditors.

    We conducted  our  audits in  accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  signi cant  estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that  our audits  and the  reports of  the other  auditors provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In  our opinion, based on our audits  and the reports of the other auditors,
the consolidated financial statements referred  to above present fairly, in  all
material  respects,  the financial  position of  Adobe Systems  Incorporated and
subsidiaries as of December 1,  1995 and November 25,  1994, and the results  of
their  operations and their cash  flows for each of  the years in the three-year
period ended December 1, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted  accounting
principles.  Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, presents  fairly, in  all material  respects, the  information set  forth
therein.

                                          KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

San Jose, California
December 19, 1995


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                       (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)
                                     ASSETS



          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                       (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)



          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
                       (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)


          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
                       (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)


          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)


          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    OPERATIONS

    Founded  in  1982, Adobe  Systems  Incorporated ("Adobe"  or  the "Company")
develops, markets, and supports computer software products and technologies that
enable users  to  create, display,  manage,  communicate, and  print  electronic
documents.  The Company licenses its technology to major computer, printing, and
publishing suppliers, and markets  a line of  application software products  and
type  products for authoring and  editing visually rich documents. Additionally,
the Company markets a line of powerful, easy-to-use products for home and  small
business  users.  The  Company distributes  its  products through  a  network of
original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") customers, distributors and dealers, and
value-added  resellers  ("VARs")  and   system  integrators.  The  Company   has
operations in the Americas, Europe, and Pacific Rim regions.

    In  October 1995, Adobe  acquired Frame Technology  Corporation ("Frame"), a
developer  of   software  applications   for  the   creation,  management,   and
distribution  of documents for  individuals and workgroups.  In July 1995, Frame
acquired Mastersoft,  Inc.  ("Mastersoft"),  a  developer  of  file  conversion,
viewing,  and document comparison software. In August 1994, Adobe acquired Aldus
Corporation ("Aldus"), a developer of software applications for the professional
publishing, graphics,  and prepress  markets;  interactive publishing;  and  the
general  consumer market. Each of these  acquisitions was made through a pooling
of interests. Accordingly, the Company's consolidated financial statements  have
been restated, for all periods prior to the acquisitions, to include the results
of  operations, financial  position, and  cash flows  of Frame,  Mastersoft, and
Aldus.

    FISCAL YEAR

    The Company's current fiscal year is a 52/53 week year ending on the  Friday
closest to November 30.

    BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION

    The  accompanying consolidated  financial statements include  those of Adobe
and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries,  after  elimination  of  all  significant
intercompany accounts and transactions.

    CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

    Cash  equivalents consist of instruments with  maturities of three months or
less at the time of purchase.

    All of the Company's cash  equivalents, short-term investments, and  certain
noncurrent  investments, consisting principally of  United States government and
government agency securities,  municipal bonds, commercial  paper, auction  rate
preferred    stocks,   and   asset-backed    securities,   are   classified   as
available-for-sale under  the provisions  of Statement  of Financial  Accounting
Standards  ("SFAS") No. 115. The Company's investments in equity securities that
are  free  of  trading  restrictions  or  that  will  become  free  of   trading
restrictions  during the  next 12 months  are also  classified as available-for-
sale. The securities are  carried at fair value,  with the unrealized gains  and
losses, net of taxes, reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity.

    The  amortized cost  of available-for-sale  debt securities  is adjusted for
amortization  of  premiums  and  accretion   of  discounts  to  maturity.   Such
amortization  is included in  investment income. Realized  gains and losses, and
declines in  value judged  to  be other  than temporary,  on  available-for-sale
securities  are included  in investment income.  The cost of  securities sold is
based  on  the  specific  identification  method.  Interest  and  dividends   on
securities   classified   as  available-for-sale   are  included   in  interest,
investment, and other income.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

    Assets and  liabilities of  certain foreign  subsidiaries, whose  functional
currency  is the local currency, are translated from their respective functional
currencies to U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. Income and expense  items
are  translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. The
adjustment resulting from translating the  financial statements of such  foreign
subsidiaries  is  reflected as  a  separate component  of  shareholders' equity.
Certain other transaction  gains or losses,  which have not  been material,  are
reported in results of operations.

    INVENTORIES

    Inventories  are stated at the lower  of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or
market (net realizable value).

    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation  and
amortization.  Depreciation of a  building in Edinburgh,  Scotland is calculated
using the  straight-line method  over 35  years. Depreciation  of equipment  and
furniture  and fixtures  is calculated using  the straight-line  method over the
estimated useful lives of the respective  assets, generally two to seven  years.
Leasehold  improvements are amortized over  the lesser of the  lease term or the
estimated useful lives of the related assets, generally five to nine years.

    OTHER ASSETS

    Purchased technology, goodwill, and licensing agreements are stated at  cost
less  accumulated amortization.  Amortization is  provided on  the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, generally three
years for technology, five to seven years  for goodwill, and three to six  years
for  licensing agreements. The  Company periodically reviews  the net realizable
value of its intangible assets and adjusts the carrying amount accordingly.

    Research and development costs are  charged to expense when incurred.  Costs
incurred   in  the  research  and  development  of  new  software  products  and
enhancements to existing software products  are also expensed as incurred  until
the  technological  feasibility  of  the  product  has  been  established. After
technological  feasibility  has  been  established,  any  additional  costs  are
capitalized  in  accordance  with SFAS  No.  86,  "Accounting for  the  Costs of
Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased,  or Otherwise Marketed," and are  included
in  "Other assets" in the Consolidated  Balance Sheets. Such costs are amortized
using the greater of the ratio of  current product revenue to the total  current
and  anticipated product revenue  or the straight-line  method of the software's
estimated economic life, generally 9 to 36 months.

    The Company owns a minority interest  in certain technology companies and  a
majority  interest in a limited partnership, established to invest in technology
companies, and accounts for such investments under the cost and equity  methods,
respectively.

    REVENUE RECOGNITION

    The  Company  recognizes revenue  in accordance  with Statement  of Position
91-1, "Software Revenue Recognition," and SFAS No. 48, "Revenue Recognition When
Right of  Return  Exists."  Application  products  revenue  is  recognized  upon
shipment.  Revenue from distributors  is subject to  agreements allowing limited
rights of return and price protection. The Company provides for estimated future
returns and price protection.

    Licensing revenue is recognized when the Company's OEM customers ship  their
products incorporating Adobe's software to their end user customers. The Company
also enters into contracts with


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
OEMs  to adapt the  Company's software products to  the OEMs' hardware products.
Revenue on such  contracts is recognized  based on the  percentage-of-completion
method and is included in licensing revenue.

    Deferred   revenue  consists  of  customer   advances  under  OEM  licensing
agreements  and  maintenance  contracts  for  application  products,  which  are
deferred  and recognized  ratably over  the term  of the  contract, generally 12
months.

    DIRECT COSTS

    Direct costs include royalties,  amortization of typeface production  costs;
amortization  of  acquired  technologies;  and  direct  product,  packaging, and
shipping costs.

    INCOME TAXES

    The Company accounts for  its income taxes under  SFAS No. 109,  "Accounting
for  Income  Taxes." Under  the  asset and  liability  method of  SFAS  No. 109,
deferred  tax  assets  and  liabilities  are  recognized  for  the  future   tax
consequences   attributable  to  differences  between  the  financial  statement
carrying amounts and the tax basis  of existing assets and liabilities  measured
using  existing tax rates. Under SFAS No. 109, the effect on deferred tax assets
and liabilities due  to a change  in tax rates  is recognized in  income in  the
period that includes the enactment date.

    The  Company does not provide deferred  income taxes for unremitted earnings
of foreign subsidiaries, as it is management's intent to reinvest these earnings
indefinitely.

    NET INCOME PER SHARE

    Net income per  share is  based upon  weighted average  common and  dilutive
common  equivalent shares outstanding using  the treasury stock method. Dilutive
common equivalent shares include stock options and restricted stock.

    RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

    In March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be Disposed Of." SFAS No. 121 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1995, and requires long-lived assets to be evaluated for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of
an asset may not be recoverable. The  Company will adopt SFAS No. 121 in  fiscal
1997  and  does not  expect  its provisions  to have  a  material effect  on the
Company's consolidated results of operations in the year of adoption.

    In October 1995, the  Financial Accounting Standards  Board issued SFAS  No.
123,  "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." SFAS  No. 123 will be effective
for fiscal years beginning  after December 15, 1995,  and will require that  the
Company  either recognize in its consolidated financial statements costs related
to its employee stock-based compensation plans,  such as stock option and  stock
purchase plans, or make pro forma disclosures of such costs in a footnote to the
consolidated financial statements.

    The  Company expects to continue to use  the intrinsic value based method of
Accounting Principles Board Opinion  No. 25, as allowed  under SFAS No. 123,  to
account  for all of  its employee stock-based  compensation plans. Therefore, in
its Consolidated financial statements for fiscal 1997, the Company will make the
required pro  forma disclosures  in  a footnote  to the  consolidated  financial
statements.  SFAS  No. 123  is not  expected to  have a  material effect  on the
Company's consolidated results of operations or financial position.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    RECLASSIFICATIONS

    Certain reclassifications  were  made  to the  1994  and  1993  consolidated
financial statements to conform to the 1995 presentation.

NOTE 2.  ACQUISITIONS

    POOLINGS OF INTERESTS

    On  October 28, 1995, the Company issued approximately 8.5 million shares of
its common stock in exchange for all of the common stock of Frame. Prior to  its
acquisition  by the Company, on July 28,  1995, Frame acquired all of the common
stock of Mastersoft in exchange for approximately 0.6 million equivalent  shares
of Adobe common stock. On August 31, 1994, the Company issued approximately 14.2
million  shares of its common  stock in exchange for all  of the common stock of
Aldus. These  business  combinations have  been  accounted for  as  poolings  of
interests,  and, accordingly, the consolidated  financial statements for periods
prior to  the  combinations  have  been  restated  to  include  the  results  of
operations, financial position, and cash flows of Frame, Mastersoft, and Aldus.

    Prior to the combinations, Frame's and Aldus' fiscal years ended on December
31.  In recording the business combination, Frame's financial statements for the
12 months ended December 1, 1995  were combined with the Company's  consolidated
financial  statements for the same period.  Frame's financial statements for the
years ended  December  31,  1994  and 1993  were  combined  with  the  Company's
consolidated  financial statements  for the  years ended  November 25,  1994 and
November 26, 1993, respectively. Revenue and  net income of Frame for the  month
ended  December 31, 1994  were $8.6 million and  $2.3 million, respectively. Net
income, Subchapter S distributions of Mastersoft, the issuance of common  stock,
and the net decrease in cash and cash equivalents were adjusted to eliminate the
effect  of including Frame's results of operations, financial position, and cash
flows for the month ended December 31, 1994 in the years ended December 1,  1995
and November 25, 1994.

    Similarly,  Aldus' financial statements for the 12 months ended November 25,
1994 were combined  with the  Company's for  the same  period. Aldus'  financial
statements for the year ended December 31, 1993 were combined with the Company's
consolidated  financial statements for the year ended November 26, 1993. Revenue
and net income of Aldus for the month ended December 31, 1993 were $26.1 million
and $4.4 million,  respectively. Net  income, the  foreign currency  translation
adjustment,  the issuance of common stock, and the net increase in cash and cash
equivalents were adjusted to eliminate the effect of including Aldus' results of
operations, financial position, and cash flows for the month ended December  31,
1993 in the years ended November 25, 1994 and November 26, 1993.

    COMBINED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    There  were no significant transactions among  the Company, Frame, and Aldus
prior to the combinations  which required elimination,  and no adjustments  were
required  to conform Aldus' accounting policies to those of the Company. Certain
adjustments were made  to Frame's  tax provision  and deferred  tax accounts  to
reflect  tax benefits  available to the  combined company.  In addition, certain
reclassifications were made  to Frame's  1994 and 1993  financial statements  to
conform to the 1995 presentation.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 2.  ACQUISITIONS (CONTINUED)
    The  table below provides information for  periods prior to the combinations
regarding the results of operations for the separate enterprises.



    PURCHASES

    In October  1995,  the  Company acquired  Ceneca  Communications,  Inc.  for
approximately  $15.2 million  in cash and  assumed liabilities.  Of this amount,
$15.0 million was allocated to in-process research and development and  expensed
at  the time of acquisition.  The remainder of the  purchase price was allocated
primarily to goodwill.

    During 1994, the  Company acquired LaserTools  Corporation and  Compumation,
Incorporated  for an  aggregate purchase  price of  $17.0 million. Approximately
$15.5 million  was allocated  to in-process  research and  development, and  was
expensed at the time of these acquisitions.

    The  operating results of  the acquired companies have  been included in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements from their dates of acquisition.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3.  CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS
    All cash equivalents,  short-term investments,  noncurrent investments,  and
certain   investments   in   equity   securities   have   been   classified   as
available-for-sale securities and consisted of the following:





    Unrealized  gains  (losses)  are  reported   as  a  separate  component   of
shareholders'  equity, net  of taxes  of $12.9  million and  $0.8 million  as of
December 1, 1995 and November 25, 1994, respectively. Net realized gains for the
years ended December  1, 1995 and  November 25,  1994 of $1.4  million and  $0.2
million, respectively, are included in interest, investment, and other income.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 3.  CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
    The Company's investments are classified as follows:



    The  cost  and  estimated  fair value  of  available-for-sale  securities by
contractual maturity consisted of the following:



    Included in auction-rate securities in 1994 are Select Auction Variable Rate
Securities ("SAVRS")  whose stated  maturities exceed  ten years.  However,  the
Company had the option of adjusting the respective interest rates or liquidating
these investments at auction on stated auction dates every 35 days.

NOTE 4.  RECEIVABLES
    Receivables consisted of the following:




                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 5.  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
    Property and equipment consisted of the following:



NOTE 6.  OTHER ASSETS
    Other assets consisted of the following:



    The  following significant transactions and activities are included in other
assets:

PURCHASED TECHNOLOGY

    During 1995, the Company  entered into an agreement  with the developers  of
the  technology underlying its  Adobe Photoshop product  under which the Company
made a lump-sum  payment of  $34.5 million in  lieu of  all royalty  obligations
incurred  in connection  with the technology  after the beginning  of the fourth
quarter of 1994. Accordingly, $8.5 million of the amount paid to the  developers
was  applied to accrued royalties related to  the fourth quarter of 1994 and the
1995 period  prior to  the execution  of  the agreement.  The balance  of  $26.0
million  is being  amortized over  30 months,  and as  of December  1, 1995, the
remaining unamortized  cost was  $18.2  million. Prior  to this  agreement,  the
Company  paid the developers a royalty for  each copy of Adobe Photoshop sold by
the Company.

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT COSTS

    Unamortized software development costs were  $2.5 million and $11.6  million
as  of December  1, 1995  and November  25, 1994,  respectively. Amortization of
software development costs was $11.1  million, $14.3 million, and $10.5  million
for  the years ended December 1, 1995, November 25, 1994, and November 26, 1993,
respectively.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 7.  ACCRUED EXPENSES
    Accrued expenses consisted of the following:



NOTE 8.  ACCRUED RESTRUCTURING COSTS

ASSOCIATED WITH THE ACQUISITION OF FRAME

    On  October 28, 1995,  the Company acquired  Frame, described in  "Note 2 --
Acquisitions," and  initiated  a plan  to  combine  the operations  of  the  two
companies.  On  this  date,  the  Company recorded  a  $32.5  million  charge to
operating expenses related to merger transaction and restructuring costs.

    Merger  transaction  costs  consist  principally  of  transaction  fees  for
investment  bankers,  attorneys,  accountants,  financial  printing,  and  other
related charges.  Restructuring  costs  include  the  elimination  of  redundant
equipment,   the  write-off   of  certain   intangible  assets,   severance  and
outplacement of terminated  employees, and cancellation  of certain  contractual
agreements.

    Merger transaction and restructuring costs are summarized below:



    The nature, timing, and extent of restructuring costs follow:

    SEVERANCE AND OUTPLACEMENT

    As  a result  of the  merger, certain  technical support,  customer service,
distribution,  and   administrative  functions   were  combined   and   reduced.
Restructuring   included   severance   and  outplacement   charges   related  to
approximately  200  terminated  employees.   Affected  employees  had   received
notification of their termination by November 8, 1995, and final assignments are
expected to be completed by mid-1996.

    REDUNDANT EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLES

    To  facilitate  the operations  of  the Company,  the  combined organization
migrated to common management information systems, which resulted in a write-off
of the book value of the abandoned systems as well as other redundant equipment.
In addition, certain intangible assets that will have no benefit to the combined
company were written off. Redundant equipment was either disposed of during  the
fourth quarter or written down to its estimated net realizable value.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 8.  ACCRUED RESTRUCTURING COSTS (CONTINUED)
    CANCELLATION OF FACILITY LEASES AND OTHER CONTRACTS

    The Company has consolidated duplicate offices in Europe, Japan, Canada, and
the   United  States.  Lease  and  third-party  contract  termination  payments,
resulting from the planned closure of these facilities, are expected to continue
through the lease term or negotiated early termination date, if applicable.

ASSOCIATED WITH THE ACQUISITION OF ALDUS

    On August 31, 1994, the Company merged  with Aldus, described in "Note 2  --
Acquisitions,"  and  initiated  a plan  to  combine  the operations  of  the two
companies. On  this  date,  the  Company recorded  a  $72.2  million  charge  to
operating expenses related to merger transaction and restructuring costs.

    Merger  transaction  costs  consisted principally  of  transaction  fees for
investment  bankers,  attorneys,  accountants,  financial  printing,  and  other
related  charges.  Restructuring  costs included  the  elimination  of redundant
information systems  and equipment,  severance  and outplacement  of  terminated
employees,  the  write-off of  certain  assets related  to  product lines  to be
divested or eliminated, and cancellation of certain contractual agreements.

    Merger transaction and restructuring costs are summarized below:





    The nature, timing, and extent of restructuring costs follow:

SEVERANCE AND OUTPLACEMENT

    As a  result of  the merger,  certain technical  support, customer  service,
distribution,   and   administrative  functions   were  combined   and  reduced.
Restructuring  included   severance   and  outplacement   charges   related   to
approximately 500 terminated employees. Affected employees received notification
of  their termination by September 9, 1994, and final assignments were completed
during 1995.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 8.  ACCRUED RESTRUCTURING COSTS (CONTINUED)
REDUNDANT INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT

    To facilitate  the  operations of  the  Company, the  combined  organization
migrated  to  a  common management  information  system, which  resulted  in the
write-off of the  book value  of approximately  $10.8 million  of the  abandoned
systems. The sale or disposal of duplicate information systems and equipment was
completed in the fourth quarter of 1994.

DUPLICATE PRODUCT LINES

    As  a condition of  the merger, the  Company no longer  (after January 1995)
sells and distributes  FreeHand, the  illustration program  previously sold  and
distributed  by Aldus. In addition, PhotoStyler, an image editing software tool,
was discontinued in  the fourth quarter  of 1994, as  the product competed  with
certain  existing  products  of  the  Company.  The  respective  inventories and
capitalized software  development  costs  and technologies  of  these  duplicate
product  lines, totaling  approximately $15.0 million,  were written  off in the
fourth quarter of 1994.

CANCELLATION OF FACILITY LEASES AND OTHER CONTRACTS

    The Company has consolidated duplicate offices in Europe, Japan, Canada, and
the  United  States.  Lease  and  third-party  contract  termination   payments,
resulting from the planned closure of these facilities, are expected to continue
through the lease term or negotiated early termination date, if applicable.

RESTRUCTURING OF FRAME'S OPERATIONS IN 1993

    Due  to  lower  than anticipated  revenues  experienced in  the  first three
quarters of  1993,  Frame  undertook certain  restructuring  measures  primarily
related  to reducing the size and scope  of its operations and re-evaluating and
redirecting its product and distribution  strategies. These actions resulted  in
restructuring  charges totaling $16.0 million. In addition, Frame incurred other
charges relating  to  the restructuring  of  approximately $9.8  million,  which
consisted  primarily of  write-offs of capitalized  software, obsolete inventory
and equipment,  and  the  settlement  of certain  contingencies.  Of  the  total
restructuring  and other charges,  $12.8 million resulted  from the write-off of
assets, which occurred  in 1993, and  $13.0 million involved  cash outflows,  of
which $4.7 million were incurred in 1993.

    During  1994, the  results of  the settlement  of certain  contingencies and
changes in  Frame's  foreign distribution  in  Japan were  more  favorable  than
expected  by approximately $2.2  million. However, these  amounts were offset by
increased estimates  of  costs  related to  facilities  previously  vacated  and
Frame's  decision to curtail significantly its  Irish operations, resulting in a
charge for termination costs, vacated facilities, and fixed asset write-offs. In
1994, Frame paid approximately  $1.6 million in  salary costs and  approximately
$3.3  million related to  the settlement of  certain contingencies, changing its
foreign distribution  in Japan,  the relocation  of its  European  headquarters,
lease payments for vacated facilities, and other charges.

    During  1995,  Frame made  cash payments  of $1.6  million and  $0.2 million
related  to  the  curtailment  of  its  Irish  operations  and  vacated   leased
facilities,  respectively.  In addition,  an analysis  of its  remaining accrued
restructuring  expenses  in   the  fourth   quarter  of   1995  indicated   that
approximately $0.3 million represented excess reserves. This amount was reversed
and credited to "Merger transaction and restructuring costs" in the Consolidated
Statements  of Income. As of December 1, 1995, $1.1 million remained accrued and
represented anticipated  future  cash  outflows related  to  lease  payments  on
vacated facilities.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 9.  INCOME TAXES
    Income   before  income  taxes  includes  net  income  (loss)  from  foreign
operations of approximately $19.2 million, $(8.7) million, and $12.7 million for
the years ended  December 1,  1995, November 25,  1994, and  November 26,  1993,
respectively.

    The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:



    Total  income tax expense differs from the expected tax expense (computed by
multiplying the United States federal statutory rate of approximately 35 percent
for 1995, 1994,  and 1993  to income  before income taxes)  as a  result of  the
following:




                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 9.  INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    The  tax effects of the temporary  differences that give rise to significant
portions of the  deferred tax assets  and liabilities  as of 1995  and 1994  are
presented below:



    As  of December 1, 1995, the Company had United States federal net operating
loss carryforwards of approximately $17.0 million, which expire in 2008, and tax
credit carryforwards of approximately $5.0  million, which expire in years  1997
through 2009. The carryforwards are attributable to the premerger years of Aldus
and  Frame and are subject to certain limitations on usage. The Company also has
foreign operating  loss carryovers  in  various jurisdictions  of  approximately
$16.0 million with various expiration dates. For financial reporting purposes, a
valuation allowance has been established to fully offset the deferred tax assets
related  to foreign  operating losses  due to  uncertainties in  utilizing these
losses. Management believes that it is more likely than not that the results  of
future  operations will  generate sufficient taxable  income to  realize the net
deferred tax assets.

NOTE 10.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

STOCK OPTION PLAN

    As of December 1, 1995, the Company had reserved 20,000,000 shares of common
stock for issuance under its Stock Option Plan.

    Each option assumed  by Adobe  under the  merger agreements  with Frame  and
Aldus  will continue to have,  and be subject to,  the same terms and conditions
set forth  in the  relevant  Stock Option  Plan after,  in  the case  of  Frame,
application of the exchange ratio to the number of shares and the exercise price
of  each option. The  Frame plan provided  for the granting  of stock options to
employees, consultants, and  officers under terms  and conditions determined  by
Frame's Board of Directors at the time of the grant. The Aldus plan provided for
the granting of stock options to employees and officers at the fair market value
at  the grant date.  Options under the Aldus  plan vest at  20 percent after the
first year and ratably each month for the next four years.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 10.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
    The Adobe plan provides for the  granting of stock options to employees  and
officers  at the fair  market value of  the Company's common  stock at the grant
date. Options generally vest over three years: 25 percent after the first  year,
and  the remainder vesting each month for the next two years so that the options
are 50 percent vested  after the second  year and fully  vested after the  third
year.  All options have a five-, seven-, or ten-year term. Stock option activity
for 1995, 1994, and 1993 is presented below.



    Of the options  outstanding, 5,573,788  were exercisable as  of December  1,
1995.

RESTRICTED STOCK OPTION PLAN

    As  of December 1, 1995,  the Company had reserved  500,000 shares of common
stock for issusance under its Restricted  Stock Option Plan, which provides  for
the  granting  of  nonqualified  stock  options  to  nonemployee  directors  and
consultants. Option  grants are  limited to  10,000 shares  per person  in  each
fiscal  year except  for a  new nonemployee director  who may  be granted 15,000
shares upon joining


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 10.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
the Board.  All options  are  immediately exercisable  within a  ten-year  term.
Options  generally vest over  three years: 25  percent in each  of the first two
years and 50 percent in  the third year. Stock  option activity for 1995,  1994,
and 1993 is as follows:



    All  options outstanding were  exercisable as of December  1, 1995 under the
Restricted Stock  Option Plan.  In addition,  Adobe assumed  65,000  outstanding
options  under the  Frame Director's  Stock Option  Plan and  95,375 outstanding
options under the Aldus Restricted Stock  Option Plan. All such assumed  options
had  been exercised as  of December 1,  1995 for an  aggregate exercise price of
$6.1 million.

PERFORMANCE AND RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN

    The Performance  and Restricted  Stock  Plan provides  for the  granting  of
restricted  stock and/or performance units to  officers and key employees. As of
December 1, 1995, the Company had reserved 1,500,000 shares of its common  stock
for  issuance under  this plan.  Restricted shares  issued under  this plan vest
annually over three years but are  considered outstanding at the time of  grant,
as  the shareholders are entitled to dividends and voting rights. As of December
1, 1995, 836,090 shares were outstanding under this plan, of which 167,002  were
not yet vested.

    Performance  units issued under  this plan entitle  the recipient to receive
shares upon completion of the performance period subject to attaining identified
performance goals.  Performance units  are generally  earned over  a  three-year
period  and shares earned  are issued at  the end of  the three-year period. The
ultimate value of the performance units is dependent upon the Company's  revenue
and  operating  margin growth  (as defined  by the  Plan) during  the three-year
performance period adjusted by  a factor determined by  comparing the growth  in
the  Company's stock price to an index of comparable stocks. The projected value
of these  units is  accrued  by the  Company and  charged  to expense  over  the
three-year  performance period.  As of December  1, 1995,  performance units for
75,420 shares were outstanding and $2.5 million was charged to expense for  this
plan in 1995. There were no performance units outstanding during the years ended
November 25, 1994 and November 26, 1993.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

    Under  the terms  of the  Company's Employee  Stock Purchase  Plan, eligible
employee  participants  may  purchase  shares  of  the  Company's  common  stock
semiannually at 85 percent of the market price,


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 10.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
on  either the purchase date or the  offering date, whichever price is lower. As
of December 1,  1995, the Company  had reserved 4,000,000  shares of its  common
stock  for issuance  under this plan  and 1,490,448 shares  remain available for
future issuance.

PRETAX SAVINGS PLAN

    In 1987, the Company  adopted an Employee  Investment Plan, qualified  under
Section  401(k) of  the Internal  Revenue Code, which  is a  pretax savings plan
covering substantially all of the  Company's United States employees. Under  the
plan, eligible employees may contribute up to 18 percent of their pretax salary,
subject  to certain  limitations. There were  2,382 employees under  the plan in
1995 and 841 employees under the plan  in 1994. Commencing in 1992, the  Company
matched  a portion  of employee  contributions. Company  matching contributions,
which can be  terminated at the  Company's discretion, were  $1.2 million,  $0.7
million, and $0.6 million in 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.

NOTE 11.  CAPITAL STOCK

SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

    The  Company's Shareholder Rights  Plan is intended  to protect shareholders
from unfair or coercive  takeover practices. In accordance  with this plan,  the
Board of Directors declared a dividend distribution of one common stock purchase
right  on each outstanding share  of its common stock held  as of July 24, 1990,
and on each share of common stock  issued by the Company thereafter. Each  right
entitles  the registered holder to  purchase from the Company  a share of common
stock at $115. The rights become exercisable in the following circumstances:

    - The rights  become exercisable  ten days  after a  public announcement  by
      another  entity that it has acquired beneficial ownership of 20 percent or
      more of the  shares (and  that is  without the  approval of  the Board  of
      Directors)  or,  if earlier,  a  public announcement  of  another entity's
      intention to commence a tender offer to acquire beneficial ownership of 20
      percent or more of the shares.

    - The rights  become  exercisable  if  another  entity  engages  in  certain
      self-dealing transactions with the Company or becomes the beneficial owner
      of 20 percent or more of the shares.

    - The  rights become exercisable if the Company is acquired by any person in
      a merger or business combination transaction, or if 50 percent or more  of
      the Company's assets or earnings powers are being sold to another entity.

    The  rights are  redeemable by  the Company prior  to exercise  at $0.01 per
right and expire on July 24, 2000.

PUT WARRANTS

    In a series of  private placements in  1994 and 1993,  the Company sold  put
warrants  entitling the holder of each warrant to sell one share of common stock
to the Company at a specified price. The Company received $719,000 and  $694,000
for the sale of put warrants in 1994 and 1993, respectively.

    The  Company's $6.9 million potential buyback obligation, as of November 26,
1993, was removed from shareholders' equity and recorded as put warrants. At the
prevailing market prices for the Company's  common stock, there was no  dilutive
effect  on earnings per  share in 1993.  No put warrants  were outstanding as of
December 1, 1995 and November 25, 1994.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 12.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LEASE COMMITMENTS

    The Company has operating leases for its corporate headquarters, field sales
offices and certain office equipment that expire at various dates through  2015.
Rent expense for these leases aggregated $21.0 million, $16.9 million, and $18.7
million  during  1995, 1994,  and 1993,  respectively. As  of December  1, 1995,
future minimum  lease  payments  under noncancelable  operating  leases  are  as
follows: 1996 -- $16.7 million; 1997 -- $9.0 million; 1998 -- $7.4 million; 1999
- -- $4.7 million; 2000 -- $2.8 million; and $18.0 million thereafter.

REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

    In  1994, the Company  entered into a real  estate development agreement for
the construction of an office facility and in 1996 will enter into an  operating
lease  agreement for this facility. The Company will have the option to purchase
the facility at the end of the lease term. In the event the Company chooses  not
to exercise this option, the Company is obligated to arrange for the sale of the
facility  to an unrelated party and is required to pay the lessor any difference
between the net sales proceeds and the lessor's net investment in the  facility,
in an amount not to exceed that which would preclude classification of the lease
as an operating lease, which is approximately $52.0 million. The Company also is
required, periodically during the construction period, to deposit funds with the
lessor  to secure the performance of its  obligations under the lease, and as of
December 1,  1995, the  Company  had deposited  approximately $35.6  million  in
United States government treasury notes and money market mutual funds.

ROYALTIES

    The Company has certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and
licensing  of certain  products. While royalty  expense is generally  based on a
dollar amount per unit shipped, ranging from $0.05 to $40.83, certain  royalties
are  based on  a percentage,  ranging from  0.05 percent  to 50  percent, of the
underlying revenue.  Royalty  expense  was approximately  $23.1  million,  $35.2
million,  and $32.8 million for  the years ended December  1, 1995, November 25,
1994, and November 26, 1993, respectively.

LEGAL ACTIONS

    The Company is  engaged in  certain legal  actions arising  in the  ordinary
course  of business.  The Company  believes it  has adequate  legal defenses and
believes that the  ultimate outcome of  these actions will  not have a  material
effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 13.  TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATE
    The  Company holds a 16 percent  equity interest in McQueen Holdings Limited
("McQueen") and accounts for  the investment at cost.  During 1994, the  Company
entered  into various  agreements with  McQueen, whereby  the Company contracted
with McQueen to perform product localization and technical support functions and
to provide  printing, assembly,  and  warehousing services,  and has  agreed  to
guarantee  obligations under operating leases for certain facilities utilized by
McQueen and to  guarantee a certain  level of business  between the Company  and
McQueen.  The remaining aggregate  contingent liability for  nonpayment of rent,
through September 1999,  for facilities  occupied by  McQueen was  approximately
$1.8 million, and minimum annual payments Adobe will make to McQueen for certain
services  are  approximately $4.6  million and  $4.8 million  in 1996  and 1997,
respectively. Purchases from McQueen amounted  to $23.6 million, $13.0  million,
and $12.6 million during 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.

NOTE 14.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    The  Company's cash  equivalents, short-term  investments, restricted funds,
and investments in equity  securities that are free  of trading restrictions  or
that  will become  free of  trading restrictions during  the next  12 months are
carried at  fair value,  based on  quoted  market prices  for these  or  similar
investments. (See Note 3.)

    The  Company's investment in equity securities  which are subject to trading
restrictions are carried at cost, which aggregates $4.4 million. The fair  value
of  these securities as of December 1,  1995, based on quoted market prices, was
$125.9 million. These  investments are  recorded as equity  securities in  other
assets.

    The  Company's  majority interest  in a  limited partnership,  accounted for
using the  equity  method,  is  carried  at $18.5  million  as  part  of  equity
securities  in  other assets.  Most  of the  technology  companies in  which the
limited partnership invests are not publicly  traded, and therefore there is  no
established  market  for  these  investments.  One  investment  of  the  limited
partnership is publicly traded, and the  fair value of this investment is  based
on quoted market price.

    CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

    Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations
of credit risk are primarily cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and
accounts   receivable.   The   Company's   investment   portfolio   consists  of
investment-grade securities diversified  among security  types, industries,  and
issuers.   The  Company's  investments  are   managed  by  recognized  financial
institutions that follow the Company's  investment policy. The Company's  policy
limits  the amount of credit exposure in any one issue, and the Company believes
no significant  concentration  of  credit  risk exists  with  respect  to  these
investments.

    Credit  risk  in  receivables  is  limited  to  OEMs,  and  to  dealers  and
distributors of hardware and software products to the retail market. The Company
adopts credit policies  and standards to  keep pace with  the evolving  software
industry.  Management believes that any risk of accounting loss is significantly
reduced due to  the diversity of  its products, end  users and geographic  sales
areas.  The  Company  performs  ongoing  credit  evaluations  of  its customers'
financial condition and requires letters of credit or other guarantees, whenever
deemed necessary.


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 14.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
    INDUSTRY SEGMENT

    Adobe and its  subsidiaries operate  in one dominant  industry segment.  The
Company  is  engaged principally  in  the design,  development,  manufacture and
licensing of computer software. No customer  accounted for more than 10  percent
of the Company's total revenue in 1995, 1994, or 1993.

NOTE 15.  INDUSTRY SEGMENT REPORTING AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS
    The  Americas operations include revenue and  results of operations in North
America, South America, Mexico, and Latin America, as well as licensing  revenue
recognized  on  a  worldwide basis.  Licensing  revenue  is not  available  on a
geographic basis, because the source of  licensing revenue is known only by  the
OEMs'  headquarters, and not necessarily by  the geographic region providing the
revenue stream to the  OEMs. Accordingly, all licensing  revenue is included  in
the  Americas.  Substantially all  of the  merger transaction  and restructuring
costs and write-off of in-process  research and development costs were  incurred
in  the Americas and therefore have  been charged against the Americas operating
income.

    European operations primarily include  subsidiaries in the Netherlands,  the
United  Kingdom,  France,  Germany,  and Sweden,  while  Pacific  Rim operations
include subsidiaries in Japan and Australia. Transfers between subsidiaries  are
accounted for at amounts that are generally above cost and consistent with rules
and  regulations of governing tax authorities.  Such transfers are eliminated in
the consolidated financial statements. Identifiable assets are those assets that
can be directly  associated with  a particular geographic  area and  subsidiary.
Geographic  information for  each of  the years  in the  three-year period ended
December 1, 1995 is presented below.




               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
Frame Technology Corporation

    We  have  audited  the  consolidated  balance  sheet  of  Frame   Technology
Corporation  as of December 31, 1994, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, shareholders' equity, and  cash flows for each  of the two years  in
the  period  then  ended  (not  presented  separately  herein).  These financial
statements are the responsibility of  Frame's management. Our responsibility  is
to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We  conducted  our audits  in  accordance with  generally  accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles  used  and significant  estimates  made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In  our  opinion, the  consolidated financial  statements referred  to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Frame Technology Corporation at December 31, 1994, and the consolidated  results
of  its operations and  its cash flows for  each of the two  years in the period
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

                                             Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California
January 30, 1995


               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
Adobe Systems Incorporated

    We have audited the  balance sheet of Aldus  Corporation as of December  31,
1993,  and the related consolidated  statements of income, shareholders' equity,
and cash flows for the year then ended (not presented separately herein).  These
financial   statements  are   the  responsibility  of   Aldus'  management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion  on these financial statements based  on
our audits.

    We  conducted  our audits  in  accordance with  generally  accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles  used  and significant  estimates  made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In  our opinion, the financial statements  referred to above present fairly,
in  all  material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial  position  of   Aldus
Corporation at December 31, 1993, and the consolidated results of its operations
and  its  cash flows  for  the year  then  ended, in  conformity  with generally
accepted accounting principles.

                                             Ernst & Young LLP

Seattle, Washington
January 28, 1994


               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
Frame Technology Corporation

    We have  audited  the  supplemental  consolidated  balance  sheet  of  Frame
Technology  Corporation  (formed  as  a result  of  the  consolidation  of Frame
Technology Corporation and Mastersoft,  Inc.) as of December  31, 1994, and  the
related   supplemental  consolidated  statements  of  operations,  shareholders'
equity, and cash flows for each of the  two years in the period then ended  (not
presented separately herein). The supplemental consolidated financial statements
give  retroactive  effect  to the  merger  of Frame  Technology  Corporation and
Mastersoft, Inc.  on July  28, 1995,  which  has been  accounted for  using  the
pooling  of  interests method  as  described in  the  notes to  the supplemental
consolidated financial statements. These  supplemental financial statements  are
the  responsibility  of  the  management of  Frame  Technology  Corporation. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion  on these financial statements based  on
our audits.

    We  conducted  our audits  in  accordance with  generally  accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles  used  and significant  estimates  made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In  our opinion, the supplemental consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly,  in all material  respects, the consolidated  financial
position  of  Frame  Technology  Corporation  at  December  31,  1994,  and  the
consolidated results of its operations  and its cash flows  for each of the  two
years in the period then ended, after giving effect to the merger of Mastersoft,
Inc.  as  described  in the  notes  to the  supplemental  consolidated financial
statements, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

                                             Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California
May 31, 1995
except for Note 13, as to which the date is
June 22, 1995


                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

    As required under Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  the
financial  statement  schedule  of  the Company  is  provided  in  this separate
section. The  financial  statement  schedule  included in  this  section  is  as
follows:




                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
                                  SCHEDULE II
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

            VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS WHICH ARE DEDUCTED IN THE
               BALANCE SHEET FROM THE ASSETS TO WHICH THEY APPLY



- ------------------------
    Deductions related to the allowance for doubtful accounts, represent amounts
written off against the allowance.

(1)  The  $423,000  reduction in  1995  relects  the effect  of  including Frame
    allowance activity for the month ended December 31, 1994 in the years  ended
    November 25, 1994 and December 1, 1995. See Note 2 to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

                 See accompanying independent auditors' report.


                                    EXHIBITS

    As  required  under Item  14.  Exhibits, Financial  Statement  Schedules and
Reports on Form 8-K, the exhibits filed  as part of this report are provided  in
this separate section. The exhibits included in this section are as follows:




