Item 1. Business

NiSource (the “Company”) is an energy holding company whose subsidiaries provide natural gas, electricity and other products and services to approximately 3.8 million customers located within a corridor that runs from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. NiSource is the successor to an Indiana corporation organized in 1987 under the name of NIPSCO Industries, Inc., which changed its name to NiSource on April 14, 1999.

NiSource is one of the nation’s largest natural gas distribution companies, as measured by number of customers. NiSource’s principal subsidiaries include NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., a natural gas distribution holding company, and Columbia, a transmission and storage holding company, whose subsidiaries provide service to customers in the Midwest, the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast; NIPSCO, a gas and electric company providing service to customers in northern Indiana. NiSource derives substantially all of its revenues and earnings from the operating results of its thirteen direct subsidiaries.

NiSource’s business segments are: Gas Distribution Operations; Columbia Pipeline Group Operations; and Electric Operations. Following is a summary of the business for each reporting segment. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for additional information for each segment.

Gas Distribution Operations

NiSource’s natural gas distribution operations serve approximately 3.4 million customers in seven states and operate approximately 58,000 miles of pipeline. Through its wholly-owned subsidiary NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., NiSource owns six distribution subsidiaries that provide natural gas to approximately 2.6 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Kentucky, Maryland and Massachusetts. Additionally, NiSource also distributes natural gas to approximately 803,000 customers in northern Indiana through its wholly-owned subsidiary NIPSCO.

Columbia Pipeline Group Operations

NiSource’s Columbia Pipeline Group Operations subsidiaries own and operate approximately 15,000 miles of interstate pipelines and operate one of the nation’s largest underground natural gas storage systems, capable of storing approximately 642 Bcf of natural gas. Through its subsidiaries, Columbia Transmission, Columbia Gulf, NiSource Midstream and Crossroads Pipeline, NiSource owns and operates an interstate pipeline network extending from the Gulf of Mexico to New York and the eastern seaboard. Together, these companies serve customers in 16 northeastern, mid-Atlantic, midwestern and southern states and the District of Columbia.

NiSource’s Columbia Pipeline Group Operations continue to develop a range of growth initiatives, including mineral leasing and optimization, midstream projects and traditional pipeline expansion opportunities that leverage NiSource’s strategically positioned pipeline and storage assets. A number of Columbia Pipeline Group Operations’ new growth projects are designed to support increasing Marcellus and Utica shale production, while the segment also has continued to grow and adapt its system to provide critical transportation and storage services to markets across its high-demand service territory.

NiSource Midstream is an unregulated business that is a provider of midstream services including gathering, treating, conditioning, processing, compression and liquids handling. NiSource Midstream supports the growing production in the Utica and Marcellus resource plays. NiSource Midstream constructed 57 miles of gathering pipeline capable of delivering 425 MMcf of gas per day produced from the Marcellus shale formation. NiSource Midstream, through a wholly owned subsidiary, has a joint venture with 50 miles of wet gas gathering pipeline capable of gathering 600 MMcf per day, a gas processing plant with a capacity of 200 MMcf per day, and a NGL pipeline from the processing plant in development with an initial capacity of 45,000 barrels per day that can be expanded to 90,000 barrels per day. The gathering pipeline and processing plant are anchored by volumetric and acreage dedications from an experienced resource play production company.

NEVCO is an unregulated business that manages the company's mineral rights positions in the Marcellus and Utica shale areas. NEVCO has entered into multiple transactions to develop its minerals position including a joint venture with an established resource play producer to form an AMI in which NEVCO combined its production rights from a certain acreage position in northeast Ohio with the producer's much larger acreage position in the same area. The transaction resulted in NEVCO participating in the development of the entire acreage position through a non-operating working interest and an overriding royalty interest.

NEVCO has also retained the right to participate as a non-operating working interest owner in one of the fields it has subleased.  NEVCO may participate up to a 12.5% interest in any unit that includes acres that have been subleased to a producer.  This option was exercised in 2013 with positive results and NEVCO plans to continue to participate in additional drilling opportunities.

The Columbia Pipeline Group Operations subsidiaries are also involved in the other joint ventures, Millennium and Hardy Storage, which effectively expand their facilities and throughput. Millennium, which includes 253 miles of 30-inch-diameter pipe across New York’s Southern Tier and lower Hudson Valley, has the capability to transport natural gas to markets along its route, as well





as to the New York City markets through its pipeline interconnections. Millennium is jointly owned by affiliates of NiSource, DTE Energy and National Grid. Hardy Storage, which consists of underground natural gas storage facilities in West Virginia, has a working storage capacity of 12 Bcf and the ability to deliver 176,000 Dth of natural gas per day. Hardy Storage is jointly owned by affiliates of Columbia Transmission and Piedmont.

Electric Operations

NiSource generates, transmits and distributes electricity through its subsidiary NIPSCO to approximately 460,000 customers in 20 counties in the northern part of Indiana and engages in wholesale and transmission transactions. NIPSCO owns and operates three coal-fired electric generating stations. The three operating facilities have a net capability of 2,540 mw. NIPSCO also owns and operates Sugar Creek, a CCGT plant with net capacity of 535 mw, four gas-fired generating units located at NIPSCO’s coal-fired electric generating stations with a net capability of 206 mw and two hydroelectric generating plants with a net capability of 10 mw. These facilities provide for a total system operating net capability of 3,291 mw. NIPSCO’s transmission system, with voltages from 69,000 to 345,000 volts, consists of 2,802 circuit miles. NIPSCO is interconnected with five neighboring electric utilities.  During the year ended December 31, 2013, NIPSCO generated 77.3% and purchased 22.7% of its electric requirements.

NIPSCO participates in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market. The MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with FERC regulations to improve the flow of electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, the MISO is responsible for managing the energy markets, managing transmission constraints, managing the day-ahead, real-time and FTR markets and managing the ancillary market. NIPSCO transferred functional control of its electric transmission assets to the MISO and transmission service for NIPSCO occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff.

Corporate and Other Operations

During the first quarter of 2010, NiSource made the decision to wind down its unregulated natural gas marketing activities as a part of the Company’s long-term strategy of focusing on its core regulated business. On September 1, 2013, NiSource sold the commercial and industrial natural gas portfolio of its unregulated natural gas marketing business. The sale included the physical contracts and associated financial hedges that comprise the portfolio, as well as the gas inventory and customer deposits of the business.

Divestiture of Non-Core Assets

In recent years, NiSource sold certain businesses judged to be non-core to NiSource’s strategy. Lake Erie Land, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NiSource, is pursuing the sale of the real estate assets it owns. NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting its low income housing investments. NiSource began marketing to sell the service plan and leasing business lines of its Retail Services business in 2012. The sale of these business lines closed in January 2013. NiSource also sold the commercial and industrial natural gas portfolio of its unregulated natural gas marketing business in September 2013.

Business Strategy

NiSource focuses its business strategy on its core, rate-regulated asset-based businesses with most of its operating income generated from the rate-regulated businesses. With one of the nation’s largest natural gas pipelines, one of the largest natural gas distribution networks east of the Rocky Mountains and one of the nation’s largest natural gas storage networks, NiSource operates throughout the energy-intensive corridor that extends from the supply areas in the Gulf Coast through the consumption centers in the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic, New England and Northeast. This corridor includes over 40% of the nation’s population and close to 50% of its natural gas consumption. NiSource continues to position its assets to meet the corridor’s growing energy needs.

Competition and Changes in the Regulatory Environment

The regulatory frameworks applicable to NiSource’s operations, at both the state and federal levels, continue to evolve. These changes have had and will continue to have an impact on NiSource’s operations, structure and profitability. Management continually seeks new ways to be more competitive and profitable in this changing environment, including providing gas customers with increased choices for products and services.

Natural Gas Competition

.    Open access to natural gas supplies over interstate pipelines and the deregulation of the commodity price of gas has led to tremendous change in the energy markets. LDC customers and marketers purchase gas directly from producers and marketers as an open, competitive market for gas supplies has emerged. This separation or “unbundling” of the transportation and other services offered by pipelines and LDCs allows customers to purchase the commodity independent of services provided by the pipelines and LDCs. The LDCs continue to purchase gas and recover the associated costs from their customers. NiSource’s Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries are involved in programs that provide customers the opportunity to purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties and use the NiSource Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries for





transportation services. The Columbia Pipeline Group Operations compete for transportation customers based on the type of service a customer needs, operating flexibility, available capacity and price under tariff provisions.

Electric Competition

.    Indiana electric utilities generally enjoy exclusive service areas under Indiana regulations and retail electric customers in Indiana do not have the ability to choose their electric supplier.  NIPSCO faces non-utility competition from other energy sources, such as self-generation by large industrial customers and other distributed energy sources.

Financing Subsidiary

NiSource Finance is a 100% owned, consolidated finance subsidiary of NiSource that engages in financing activities to raise funds for the business operations of NiSource and its subsidiaries. NiSource Finance was incorporated in March 2000 under the laws of the state of Indiana. Prior to 2000, the function of NiSource Finance was performed by Capital Markets. NiSource Finance obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NiSource.

Other Relevant Business Information

NiSource’s customer base is broadly diversified, with no single customer accounting for a significant portion of revenues.

As of December 31, 2013, NiSource had 8,477 employees of whom 3,318 were subject to collective bargaining agreements.

For a listing of certain subsidiaries of NiSource refer to Exhibit 21.

NiSource files various reports with the SEC. The reports include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. NiSource makes all SEC filings available without charge to the public on its web site at http://www.nisource.com.