Item 1. Business

NiSource (the “Company”) is an energy holding company whose subsidiaries provide natural gas, electricity and other products and services to approximately 3.8 million customers located within a corridor that runs from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. NiSource is the successor to an Indiana corporation organized in 1987 under the name of NIPSCO Industries, Inc., which changed its name to NiSource on April 14, 1999.

NiSource is one of the nation’s largest natural gas distribution companies, as measured by number of customers. NiSource’s principal subsidiaries include Columbia, a vertically integrated natural gas distribution, transmission and storage holding company whose subsidiaries provide service to customers in the Midwest, the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast; Northern Indiana, a vertically-integrated gas and electric company providing service to customers in northern Indiana; and Columbia of Massachusetts, a natural gas distribution company serving customers in Massachusetts. NiSource derives substantially all of its revenues and earnings from the operating results of its thirteen direct subsidiaries.

NiSource’s business segments are: Gas Distribution Operations; Gas Transmission and Storage Operations; and Electric Operations. Following is a summary of the business for each reporting segment. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information for each segment.

Gas Distribution Operations

NiSource’s natural gas distribution operations serve more than 3.3 million customers in seven states and operate approximately 58,000 miles of pipeline. Through its subsidiary, Columbia, NiSource owns five distribution subsidiaries that provide natural gas to approximately 2.2 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Kentucky, and Maryland. NiSource's subsidiary Northern Indiana also distributes natural gas to approximately 798,000 customers in northern Indiana. Additionally, NiSource’s subsidiary, Columbia Gas of Massachusetts, distributes natural gas to approximately 303,000 customers in Massachusetts.

Gas Transmission and Storage Operations

NiSource’s Gas Transmission and Storage Operations subsidiaries own and operate approximately 15,000 miles of pipeline and operate one of the nation’s largest underground natural gas storage systems capable of storing approximately 637.8 Bcf of natural gas. Through its subsidiaries, Columbia Transmission, Columbia Gulf and Crossroads Pipeline, NiSource owns and operates an interstate pipeline network extending from the Gulf of Mexico to New York and the eastern seaboard. Together, these companies serve customers in 16 northeastern, mid-Atlantic, midwestern and southern states and the District of Columbia.

NiSource’s Gas Transmission and Storage Operations continue to develop a range of supply-driven growth initiatives, including mineral leasing and optimization, midstream projects and traditional pipeline expansion opportunities that leverage NiSource’s strategically positioned pipeline and storage assets. A number of Gas Transmission and Storage Operations’ new growth projects are designed to support increasing Marcellus and Utica shale production, while the segment also has continued to grow and adapt its system to provide critical transportation and storage services to markets across its high-demand service territory.

NiSource Midstream is an unregulated business that is a provider of midstream services including gathering, treating, conditioning, processing, compression and liquids handling. NiSource Midstream has entered into two fee-based transactions designed to support growing production in the Utica and Marcellus resource plays. The first transaction involves the construction of 57 miles of gathering pipeline capable of delivering 425 Mcf of gas per day produced from the Marcellus shale formation. The second transaction is a joint venture with 50 miles of gathering pipeline capable of gathering 600 Mcf per day and a gas processing plant with a capacity of 200 Mcf per day. Both projects are anchored by volumetric and acreage dedications from experienced resource play production companies.

NEVCO is an unregulated business that manages the company's mineral rights positions in the Marcellus and Utica shale areas. NEVCO has entered into multiple transactions to develop its minerals position including a joint venture with an established resource play producer to form an AMI in which NEVCO combined its production rights from a certain acreage position in northeast Ohio with the producer's much larger acreage position in the same area. The transaction resulted in NEVCO participating in the development of the entire acreage position through a non-operating working interest as well as an overriding royalty interest.

The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations subsidiaries are also involved in the joint ventures, Millennium and Hardy Storage, which effectively expand their facilities and throughput. Millennium, which includes 253 miles of 30-inch-diameter pipe across New York’s Southern Tier and lower Hudson Valley, has the capability to transport up to 525,400 Dth per day of natural gas to markets along its route, as well as to the New York City markets through its pipeline interconnections. Millennium is jointly owned by affiliates of NiSource, DTE Energy and National Grid. Hardy Storage, which consists of underground natural gas storage





facilities in West Virginia, has a working storage capacity of 12 Bcf and the ability to deliver 176,000 Dth of natural gas per day. Hardy Storage is jointly owned by affiliates of Columbia Transmission and Piedmont.

Electric Operations

NiSource generates, transmits and distributes electricity through its subsidiary Northern Indiana to approximately 458,000 customers in 20 counties in the northern part of Indiana and engages in electric wholesale and transmission transactions. Northern Indiana operates three coal-fired electric generating stations. The three operating facilities have a net capability of 2,540 mw. Northern Indiana also owns and operates Sugar Creek, a CCGT plant with a 535 mw capacity rating, four gas-fired generating units located at Northern Indiana’s coal-fired electric generating stations with a net capability of 206 mw and two hydroelectric generating plants with a net capability of 10 mw. These facilities provide for a total system operating net capability of 3,291 mw. Northern Indiana’s transmission system, with voltages from 69,000 to 345,000 volts, consists of 2,800 circuit miles. Northern Indiana is interconnected with five neighboring electric utilities.  During the year ended December 31, 2012, Northern Indiana generated 74.1% and purchased 25.9% of its electric requirements.

Northern Indiana participates in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market. The MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with FERC regulations to improve the flow of electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, the MISO is responsible for managing the energy markets, managing transmission constraints, managing the day-ahead, real-time and FTR markets and managing the ancillary market. Northern Indiana transferred functional control of its electric transmission assets to the MISO and transmission service for Northern Indiana occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff.

Corporate and Other Operations

During the first quarter of 2010, NiSource made the decision to wind down its unregulated natural gas marketing activities as a part of the Company’s long-term strategy of focusing on its core regulated business.

Divestiture of Non-Core Assets

In recent years, NiSource sold certain businesses judged to be non-core to NiSource’s strategy. Lake Erie Land, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NiSource, is pursuing the sale of the real estate assets it owns. NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting its low income housing investments. NiSource began marketing to sell the service plan and leasing business lines of its Retail Services business in 2012. The sale of these business lines closed in January 2013. NiSource is also in the process of winding down its unregulated natural gas marketing business, where gas financial contracts are utilized to economically hedge expected future gas purchases associated with forward gas agreements.

Business Strategy

NiSource focuses its business strategy on its core, rate-regulated asset-based businesses with most of its operating income generated from the rate-regulated businesses. With one of the nation’s largest natural gas pipelines, one of the largest natural gas distribution networks east of the Rocky Mountains and one of the nation’s largest natural gas storage networks, NiSource operates throughout the energy-intensive corridor that extends from the supply areas in the Gulf Coast through the consumption centers in the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic, New England and Northeast. This corridor includes over 40% of the nation’s population and close to 50% of its natural gas consumption. NiSource continues to position its assets to meet the corridor’s growing energy needs.

Competition and Changes in the Regulatory Environment

The regulatory frameworks applicable to NiSource’s operations, at both the state and federal levels, continue to evolve. These changes have had and will continue to have an impact on NiSource’s operations, structure and profitability. Management continually seeks new ways to be more competitive and profitable in this changing environment, including providing gas customers with increased choices for products and services.

Natural Gas Competition

.    Open access to natural gas supplies over interstate pipelines and the deregulation of the commodity price of gas has led to tremendous change in the energy markets. LDC customers and marketers purchase gas directly from producers and marketers as an open, competitive market for gas supplies has emerged. This separation or “unbundling” of the transportation and other services offered by pipelines and LDCs allows customers to purchase the commodity independent of services provided by the pipelines and LDCs. The LDCs continue to purchase gas and recover the associated costs from their customers. NiSource’s Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries are involved in programs that provide customers the opportunity to purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties and use the NiSource Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries for transportation services. The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations compete for transportation customers based on the type of service a customer needs, operating flexibility, available capacity and price under tariff provisions.





Electric Competition

.    Northern Indiana currently dispatches all power from its plants into the MISO. Transmission service for Northern Indiana occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff.

Financing Subsidiary

NiSource Finance is a 100% owned, consolidated finance subsidiary of NiSource that engages in financing activities to raise funds for the business operations of NiSource and its subsidiaries. NiSource Finance was incorporated in March 2000 under the laws of the state of Indiana. Prior to 2000, the function of NiSource Finance was performed by Capital Markets. NiSource Finance obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NiSource.

Other Relevant Business Information

NiSource’s customer base is broadly diversified, with no single customer accounting for a significant portion of revenues.

As of December 31, 2012, NiSource had 8,286 employees of whom 3,360 were subject to collective bargaining agreements.

For a listing of certain subsidiaries of NiSource refer to Exhibit 21.

NiSource files various reports with the SEC. The reports include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. NiSource makes all SEC filings available without charge to the public on its web site at http://www.nisource.com.
