ITEM 1.BUSINESS

NiSource Inc.

NiSource is an energy holding company whose subsidiaries provide natural gas, electricity and other
products and services to approximately 3.8 million customers located within a corridor that runs
from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. NiSource is the successor to an Indiana
corporation organized in 1987 under the name of NIPSCO Industries, Inc., which changed its name to
NiSource on April 14, 1999.

NiSource is one of the nation’s largest natural gas distribution companies, as measured by number
of customers. NiSource’s principal subsidiaries include Columbia, a vertically-integrated natural
gas distribution, transmission and storage holding company whose subsidiaries provide service to
customers in the Midwest, the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast; Northern Indiana, a
vertically-integrated gas and electric company providing service to customers in northern Indiana;
and Columbia of Massachusetts, a natural gas distribution company serving customers in
Massachusetts. NiSource derives substantially all of its revenues and earnings from the operating
results of its fifteen direct subsidiaries.

NiSource’s business segments are: Gas Distribution Operations; Gas Transmission and Storage
Operations; and Electric Operations. Following is a summary of the business for each reporting
segment. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations”, for additional information for each segment.

Gas Distribution OperationsNiSource’s natural gas distribution operations serve more than 3.3 million customers in seven
states and operate approximately 59 thousand miles of pipeline. Through its wholly-owned
subsidiary, Columbia, NiSource owns five distribution subsidiaries that provide natural gas to
approximately 2.2 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, Kentucky, and Maryland. NiSource also distributes natural gas to approximately 795
thousand customers in northern Indiana through three subsidiaries: Northern Indiana, Kokomo Gas
and Northern Indiana Fuel and Light. Additionally, NiSource’s subsidiary, Columbia Gas of
Massachusetts, distributes natural gas to approximately 296 thousand customers in Massachusetts.

Gas Transmission and Storage OperationsNiSource’s Gas Transmission and Storage Operations subsidiaries own and operate nearly 15,000 miles
of jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional pipelines and operate one of the nation’s largest
underground natural gas storage systems capable of storing approximately 639 Bcf of natural gas.
Through its subsidiaries, Columbia Transmission, Columbia Gulf and Crossroads Pipeline, NiSource
owns and operates an interstate pipeline network extending from the Gulf of Mexico to New York and
the eastern seaboard. Together, these companies serve customers in 16 northeastern, mid-Atlantic,
midwestern and southern states and the District of Columbia.

NiSource’s Gas Transmission and Storage Operations continue to capture growth opportunities
leveraging NiSource’s strategically positioned pipeline and storage assets. A number of Gas
Transmission and Storage Operations’ new growth projects are designed to support increasing
Marcellus Shale production, while the Company also has continued to grow and adapt its system to
provide critical transportation and storage services to markets across its high-demand service
territory.

The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations subsidiaries are also involved in two joint ventures,
Millennium and Hardy Storage, which effectively expand their facilities and throughput. Millennium
pipeline, which includes 247 miles of 30-inch-diameter pipe across New York’s Southern Tier and
lower Hudson Valley, has the capability to transport up to 525,400 Dth per day of natural gas to
markets along its route, as well as to the New York City markets through its pipeline
interconnections. Millennium is jointly owned by affiliates of NiSource, DTE Energy and National
Grid. Hardy Storage, which consists of underground natural gas storage facilities in West Virginia,
has a working storage capacity of 12 Bcf and the ability to deliver 176,000 Dth of natural gas per
day. Hardy Storage is a joint venture of subsidiaries of Columbia Transmission and Piedmont.

Electric OperationsNiSource generates, transmits and distributes electricity through its subsidiary Northern Indiana
to approximately 458 thousand customers in 20 counties in the northern part of Indiana and engages
in wholesale and transmission transactions. Northern Indiana operates three coal-fired electric
generating stations. The three operating facilities have a net capability of 2,574 mw. Northern
Indiana also owns and operates Sugar Creek, a CCGT plant with a 535






ITEM 1.BUSINESS

NiSource Inc.

mw capacity rating, four gas-fired generating units located at Northern Indiana’s coal-fired
electric generating stations with a net capability of 203 mw and two hydroelectric generating
plants with a net capability of 10 mw. These facilities provide for a total system operating net
capability of 3,322 mw. Sugar Creek was purchased in May 2008 and dispatched into MISO on December
1, 2008. Northern Indiana’s transmission system, with voltages from 69,000 to 345,000 volts,
consists of 2,795 circuit miles. Northern Indiana is interconnected with five neighboring electric
utilities.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, Northern Indiana generated 86.7% and purchased 13.3% of
its electric requirements. Northern Indiana’s Mitchell Station, indefinitely shut down in 2002, is
not included in the net capacity of the three coal-fired generation stations. In the order
received on May 25, 2010 related to the 2008 rate case, the IURC approved a rate base that excludes
the Mitchell Station. All utility plant assets of the Mitchell Station in service were retired and
CWIP, materials and supplies, and base coal totaling $4.3 million were expensed during the third
quarter of 2010 as there were no future economic benefits associated with these assets.

Northern Indiana participates in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market. The
MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with FERC regulations, to improve the flow
of electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, MISO
is responsible for managing the energy markets, managing transmission constraints, managing the
day-ahead, real-time and FTR markets and managing the ancillary market. Northern Indiana
transferred functional control of its electric transmission assets to MISO and transmission service
for Northern Indiana occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff.

Corporate and Other OperationsDuring the first quarter of 2010, NiSource made the decision to wind down the unregulated natural
gas marketing activities as a part of the Company’s long-term strategy of focusing on its core
regulated business.

Divestiture of Non-Core AssetsIn recent years, NiSource sold certain businesses judged to be non-core to NiSource’s strategy.
NiSource sold Whiting Clean Energy to BPAE in April 2008 for $216.7 million which included $16.1
million in working capital. In December 2008, NiSource sold Northern Utilities and Granite State
Gas for $209.1 million which included $49.1 million in working capital. Columbia Gulf sold a
portion of Columbia Gulf’s offshore assets to Tennessee Gas Pipeline in June 2008. Lake Erie Land,
a wholly-owned subsidiary of NiSource, sold its Sand Creek Golf Club assets in June 2006, to a
private real estate developer. Lake Erie Land is pursuing the sale of certain other real estate
assets it owns. NiSource Corporate Services is continuing to work with potential buyers to sell
its Marble Cliff facility. In the fourth quarter of 2010, NiSource Corporate Services executed a
purchase and sale agreement of the Marble Cliff facility with the closing date planned in the first
quarter 2011. NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the
process of exiting some of its low income housing investments.

Business StrategyNiSource focuses its business strategy on its core, rate-regulated asset-based businesses with
virtually 100% of its operating income generated from the rate-regulated businesses. With the
nation’s fourth largest natural gas pipeline, the largest natural gas distribution network east of
the Rocky Mountains and one of the nation’s largest natural gas storage networks, NiSource operates
throughout the energy-intensive corridor that extends from the supply areas in the Gulf Coast
through the consumption centers in the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic, New England and Northeast. This
corridor includes over 40% of the nation’s population and close to 50% of its natural gas
consumption. NiSource continues to position its assets to meet the corridor’s growing energy
needs.

Competition and Changes in the Regulatory EnvironmentThe regulatory frameworks applicable to NiSource’s operations, at both the state and federal
levels, continue to evolve. These changes have had and will continue to have an impact on
NiSource’s operations, structure and profitability. Management continually seeks new ways to be
more competitive and profitable in this changing environment, including providing gas customers
with increased choices for products and services.

Natural Gas Competition. Open access to natural gas supplies over interstate pipelines and the
deregulation of the commodity price of gas has led to tremendous change in the energy markets. LDC
customers and marketers






ITEM 1.BUSINESS

NiSource Inc.

purchase gas directly from producers and marketers as an open, competitive market for gas supplies
has emerged. This separation or “unbundling” of the transportation and other services offered by
pipelines and LDCs allows customers to purchase the commodity independent of services provided by
the pipelines and LDCs. The LDCs continue to purchase gas and recover the associated costs from
their customers. NiSource’s Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries are involved in programs
that provide customers the opportunity to purchase their natural gas requirements from third
parties and use the NiSource Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries for transportation services.

Electric Competition. Northern Indiana currently dispatches all power from its plants into the
MISO. Transmission service for Northern Indiana occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission
Tariff.

Financing SubsidiaryNiSource Finance is a wholly-owned, consolidated finance subsidiary of NiSource that engages in
financing activities to raise funds for the business operations of NiSource and its subsidiaries.
NiSource Finance was incorporated in February 2000 under the laws of the state of Indiana.
NiSource Finance’s obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NiSource.

Other Relevant Business InformationNiSource’s customer base is broadly diversified, with no single customer accounting for a
significant portion of revenues.

As of
December 31, 2010, NiSource had 7,604 employees of whom 3,278 were subject to collective
bargaining agreements.

For a listing of certain subsidiaries of NiSource refer to Exhibit 21.

NiSource files various reports with the SEC. The reports include the annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments to
those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. NiSource makes all SEC filings available without charge to the public on its web site athttp://www.nisource.com.








