Item 1. Business

NiSource (the “Company”) is an energy holding company whose subsidiaries provide natural gas, electricity and other products and services to approximately 3.8 million customers located within a corridor that runs from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. NiSource is the successor to an Indiana corporation organized in 1987 under the name of NIPSCO Industries, Inc., which changed its name to NiSource on April 14, 1999.

NiSource is one of the nation’s largest natural gas distribution companies, as measured by number of customers. NiSource’s principal subsidiaries include NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., a natural gas distribution holding company, and Columbia Pipeline Group, Inc. ("CPG"), a transmission and storage holding company, whose subsidiaries provide service to customers in the Midwest, the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast; NIPSCO, a gas and electric company providing service to customers in northern Indiana. NiSource derives substantially all of its revenues and earnings from the operating results of its thirteen direct subsidiaries. NiSource's subsidiary CPG was recently formed to be the holding company under which Columbia is organized in connection with the Proposed Separation (as defined below).

NiSource’s business segments are: Gas Distribution Operations; Columbia Pipeline Group Operations; and Electric Operations. Following is a summary of the business for each reporting segment. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 22, "Segments of Business," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information for each segment.

On September 28, 2014, NiSource announced that its Board of Directors had approved in principle plans to separate its natural gas pipeline and related businesses into a stand-alone publicly traded company (the “Proposed Separation”).  If completed, the Proposed Separation will result in two energy infrastructure companies:  NiSource , a fully regulated natural gas and electric utilities company, and CPG, a natural gas pipeline, midstream and storage company.  The Proposed Separation is expected to occur in mid-2015. The Proposed Separation is subject to various conditions, and there is no assurance that the transaction will be completed in mid-2015 or at all. Refer to the "Consolidated Review" under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," for additional information on the Proposed Separation. In connection with the Proposed Separation, CPG has filed with the SEC a registration statement under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that is not yet effective.

Under the plan for the Proposed Separation, NiSource stockholders would retain their current shares of NiSource stock and receive a

pro rata

distribution of shares of CPG stock in a transaction that is expected to be tax-free to NiSource and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

On February 11, 2015, CPPL (the "Partnership") completed its IPO of 53.8 million common units representing limited partnership interests, constituting 53.5% of the Partnership's outstanding limited partnership interests. The Partnership received $1,170.0 million of net proceeds for the IPO. NiSource, through CPG, owns the general partner of the Partnership, all of the Partnership's subordinated units and the incentive distribution rights. The assets of the Partnership consist of a 15.7 percent limited partner interest in Columbia OpCo, which consists of substantially all of the Columbia Pipeline Group Operations segment. The operations of the Partnership will be consolidated in NiSource's results as long as the Partnership remains a subsidiary. If the Proposed Separation occurs, CPG would no longer be a subsidiary of NiSource and, thus, NiSource would cease to own (a) any interest in Columbia OpCo, (b) the general partner of the Partnership, (c) any of the limited partner interests in the Partnership or (d) any of the incentive distribution rights in the Partnership.

Gas Distribution Operations

NiSource’s natural gas distribution operations serve approximately 3.4 million customers in seven states and operate approximately 58,000 miles of pipeline. Through its wholly-owned subsidiary NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., NiSource owns six distribution subsidiaries that provide natural gas to approximately 2.6 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Kentucky, Maryland and Massachusetts. Additionally, NiSource also distributes natural gas to approximately 807,000 customers in northern Indiana through its wholly-owned subsidiary NIPSCO.

Columbia Pipeline Group Operations

NiSource’s Columbia Pipeline Group Operations subsidiaries own and operate approximately 15,000 miles of interstate pipelines and operate one of the nation’s largest underground natural gas storage systems, capable of operationally storing approximately 622 Bcf of natural gas. Through its subsidiaries, Columbia Transmission, Columbia Gulf, Columbia Midstream and Crossroads Pipeline, NiSource owns and operates an interstate pipeline network extending from the Gulf of Mexico to New York and the eastern seaboard. Together, these companies serve customers in 16 northeastern, mid-Atlantic, Midwestern and southern states and the District of Columbia.





NiSource’s Columbia Pipeline Group Operations continue to develop a range of growth initiatives, including mineral leasing and optimization, midstream projects and traditional pipeline expansion opportunities that leverage NiSource’s strategically positioned pipeline and storage assets. A number of Columbia Pipeline Group Operations’ new growth projects are designed to support increasing Marcellus and Utica Shale production, while the segment also has continued to grow and adapt its system to provide critical transportation and storage services to markets across its high-demand service territory.

Columbia Midstream is an unregulated business that provides natural gas producer services including gathering, treating, conditioning, processing, compression and liquids handling in the Appalachian Basin. Columbia Midstream owns approximately 103 miles of natural gas gathering pipeline and one compressor station with 6,800 horsepower of installed capacity and also owns a 50% ownership interest in Pennant, which owns approximately 80 miles of wet natural gas gathering pipeline infrastructure, a cryogenic processing plant and an NGL pipeline. Columbia Midstream supports the growing production in the Utica and Marcellus resource plays.

CEVCO is an unregulated business that manages the company's mineral rights positions in the Marcellus and Utica Shale areas. CEVCO owns production rights to approximately 460,000 acres and has sub-leased the production rights in four storage fields and has also contributed its production rights in one other field. CEVCO has entered into multiple transactions to develop its minerals position and as a result receives revenue through working interests and/or overriding royalty interests.

CEVCO has also retained the right to participate as a non-operating working interest owner in one of the fields it has subleased.  CEVCO may participate up to a 12.5% interest in any unit that includes acres that have been subleased to a producer.  This option was exercised in 2013 with positive results and CEVCO plans to continue to participate in additional drilling opportunities.

The Columbia Pipeline Group Operations subsidiaries are also involved in the other joint ventures, Millennium and Hardy Storage, which effectively expand their facilities and throughput. Millennium, which includes 253 miles of 30-inch-diameter pipe across New York’s Southern Tier and lower Hudson Valley, has the capability to transport natural gas to markets along its route, as well as to the New York City markets through its pipeline interconnections. Millennium is jointly owned by affiliates of NiSource, DTE Energy and National Grid. Hardy Storage, which consists of underground natural gas storage facilities in West Virginia, has a working storage capacity of 12 Bcf and the ability to deliver 176,000 Dth/d of natural gas. Hardy Storage is jointly owned by affiliates of Columbia Transmission and Piedmont.

Electric Operations

NiSource generates, transmits and distributes electricity through its subsidiary NIPSCO to approximately 461,000 customers in 20 counties in the northern part of Indiana and engages in wholesale and transmission transactions. NIPSCO owns and operates three coal-fired electric generating stations. The three operating facilities have a net capability of 2,540 mw. NIPSCO also owns and operates Sugar Creek, a CCGT plant with net capacity of 535 mw, three gas-fired generating units located at NIPSCO’s coal-fired electric generating stations with a net capability of 196 mw and two hydroelectric generating plants with a net capability of 10 mw. These facilities provide for a total system operating net capability of 3,281 mw. NIPSCO’s transmission system, with voltages from 69,000 to 345,000 volts, consists of 2,802 circuit miles. NIPSCO is interconnected with five neighboring electric utilities.  During the year ended December 31, 2014, NIPSCO generated 77.3% and purchased 22.7% of its electric requirements.

NIPSCO participates in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market. The MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with FERC regulations to improve the flow of electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, the MISO is responsible for managing the energy markets, managing transmission constraints, managing the day-ahead, real-time and FTR markets and managing the ancillary market. NIPSCO transferred functional control of its electric transmission assets to the MISO and transmission service for NIPSCO occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff.

Divestiture of Non-Core Assets

In recent years, NiSource sold certain businesses judged to be non-core to NiSource’s strategy. Lake Erie Land, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NiSource, is pursuing the sale of the real estate assets it owns. NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development Company, is in the process of exiting its low income housing investments. NiSource sold the service plan and leasing business lines of its Retail Services business in January 2013. NiSource also sold the commercial and industrial natural gas portfolio of its unregulated natural gas marketing business in September 2013.

Business Strategy

NiSource focuses its business strategy on its core, rate-regulated asset-based businesses with most of its operating income generated from the rate-regulated businesses. With one of the nation’s largest natural gas pipelines, one of the largest natural gas distribution networks, as measured by number of customers, and one of the nation's largest natural gas storage networks, NiSource operates throughout the energy-intensive corridor that extends from the supply areas in the Gulf Coast through the consumption centers in





the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic, New England and Northeast. This corridor includes over 30% of the nation’s population and close to 31% of its natural gas consumption. NiSource continues to position its assets to meet the corridor’s growing energy needs.

Competition and Changes in the Regulatory Environment

The regulatory frameworks applicable to NiSource’s operations, at both the state and federal levels, continue to evolve. These changes have had and will continue to have an impact on NiSource’s operations, structure and profitability. Management continually seeks new ways to be more competitive and profitable in this changing environment, including providing gas customers with increased choices for products and services.

Natural Gas Competition

.    Open access to natural gas supplies over interstate pipelines and the deregulation of the commodity price of gas has led to tremendous change in the energy markets. LDC customers and marketers purchase gas directly from producers and marketers as an open, competitive market for gas supplies has emerged. This separation or “unbundling” of the transportation and other services offered by pipelines and LDCs allows customers to purchase the commodity independent of services provided by the pipelines and LDCs. The LDCs continue to purchase gas and recover the associated costs from their customers. NiSource’s Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries are involved in programs that provide customers the opportunity to purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties and use the NiSource Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries for transportation services. The Columbia Pipeline Group Operations compete for transportation customers based on the type of service a customer needs, operating flexibility, available capacity and price under tariff provisions.

Electric Competition

.    Indiana electric utilities generally have exclusive service areas under Indiana regulations and retail electric customers in Indiana do not have the ability to choose their electric supplier.  NIPSCO faces non-utility competition from other energy sources, such as self-generation by large industrial customers and other distributed energy sources.

Financing Subsidiary

NiSource Finance is a 100% owned, consolidated finance subsidiary of NiSource that engages in financing activities to raise funds for the business operations of NiSource and its subsidiaries. NiSource Finance was incorporated in March 2000 under the laws of the state of Indiana. Prior to 2000, the function of NiSource Finance was performed by Capital Markets. NiSource Finance obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NiSource.

Other Relevant Business Information

NiSource’s customer base is broadly diversified, with no single customer accounting for a significant portion of revenues.

As of December 31, 2014, NiSource had 8,982 employees of whom 3,323 were subject to collective bargaining agreements.

For a listing of certain subsidiaries of NiSource refer to Exhibit 21.

NiSource electronically files various reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports. The public may read and copy any materials that NiSource files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at

http://www.sec.gov

. NiSource makes all SEC filings available without charge to the public on its web site at

http://www.nisource.com

.