Item 1. Business.



M&T Bank Corporation (“Registrant” or
    “M&T”) is a New York business corporation which
    is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding
    Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”) and underArticle III-Aof the New York Banking Law (“Banking Law”). The
    principal executive offices of the Registrant are located at One
    M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. The Registrant was
    incorporated in November 1969. The Registrant and its direct and
    indirect subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the
    “Company.” As of December 31, 2009 the Company
    had consolidated total assets of $68.9 billion, deposits of
    $47.4 billion and stockholders’ equity of
    $7.8 billion. The Company had 12,802 full-time and
    1,424 part-time employees as of December 31, 2009.

At December 31, 2009, the Registrant had two wholly owned
    bank subsidiaries: M&T Bank and M&T Bank, National
    Association (“M&T Bank, N.A.”). The banks
    collectively offer a wide range of commercial banking, trust and
    investment services to their customers. At December 31,
    2009, M&T Bank represented 99% of consolidated assets of
    the Company. M&T Bank operates branch offices in New York,
    Maryland, Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey, Virginia, West
    Virginia and the District of Columbia.

The Company from time to time considers acquiring banks, thrift
    institutions, branch offices of banks or thrift institutions, or
    other businesses within markets currently served by the Company
    or in other locations that would complement the Company’s
    business or its geographic reach. The Company has pursued
    acquisition opportunities in the past, continues to review
    different opportunities, including the possibility of major
    acquisitions, and intends to continue this practice.



Relationship
    With Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c.

Form 8-K



Board of
    Directors; Management







As long as AIB remains a significant shareholder of M&T,
    AIB will have representation on the boards of directors of both
    M&T and M&T Bank as follows:



•As long as AIB holds at least 15% of the outstanding shares of
    M&T common stock, AIB will be entitled to designate four
    persons on both the M&T and M&T Bank boards of
    directors and representation on the committees of the M&T
    board described above.

•If AIB holds at least 10%, but less than 15%, of the outstanding
    shares of M&T common stock, AIB will be entitled to
    designate at least two people on both the M&T and M&T
    Bank boards of directors.

•If AIB’s ownership interest in M&T is at least 5%, but
    less than 10%, of the outstanding shares of M&T common
    stock, AIB will be entitled to designate at least one person on
    both the M&T and M&T Bank boards of directors.

•As long as AIB holds at least 15% of the outstanding shares of
    M&T common stock, neither M&T’s board of
    directors nor M&T Bank’s board of directors will
    consist of more than twenty-eight directors without the consent
    of the AIB Designees.

•If AIB’s holdings of M&T common stock fall below 15%,
    but not lower than 12% of the outstanding shares of M&T
    common stock, AIB will continue to have the same rights that it
    would have had if it owned 15% of the outstanding shares of
    M&T common stock, as long as AIB restores its ownership
    percentage to 15% within one year. Additionally, as described in
    more detail below, M&T has agreed to repurchase shares of
    M&T common stock in order to offset dilution to AIB’s
    ownership interests that may otherwise be caused by issuances of
    M&T common stock under M&T employee and director
    benefit or stock purchase plans. Dilution of AIB’s
    ownership position caused by such issuances will not be counted
    in determining whether the “Sunset Date” has occurred
    or whether any of AIB’s other rights under the
    Reorganization Agreement have terminated. The “Sunset
    Date” is the date on which AIB no longer holds at least 15%
    of M&T common stock, calculated as described in this
    paragraph.



The AIB Designees at December 31, 2009 were Michael D.
    Buckley, Colm E. Doherty, Richard G. King and Eugene J. Sheehy.
    Mr. Buckley serves as a member of the Executive Committee
    and the Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee, and
    Mr. King serves as a member of the Audit and Risk
    Committee. Robert G. Wilmers, Chairman of the Board and Chief
    Executive Officer of M&T, is a member of the AIB board of
    directors.



Amendments
    to M&T’s Bylaws

Pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement, M&T amended and
    restated its bylaws. The following is a description of the
    amended bylaws:

The amended bylaws provide that until the Sunset Date, the
    M&T board of directors may not take or make any
    recommendation to M&T’s shareholders regarding the
    following actions without the approval of the Executive
    Committee, including the approval of the AIB Designee serving on
    the committee:

•Any amendment of M&T’s Certificate of Incorporation or
    bylaws that would be inconsistent with the rights described
    herein or that would otherwise have an adverse effect on the
    board representation, committee representation or other rights
    of AIB contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement;•Any activity not permissible for a U.S. bank holding
    company;•The adoption of any shareholder rights plan or other measures
    having the purpose or effect of preventing or materially
    delaying completion of any transaction involving a change in
    control of M&T; and•Any public announcement disclosing M&T’s desire or
    intention to take any of the foregoing actions.



The amended bylaws also provide that until the Sunset Date, the
    M&T board of directors may only take or make any
    recommendation to M&T’s shareholders regarding the
    following actions if the action has been approved by the
    Executive Committee (in the case of the first four items and
    sixth item below) or Nomination, Compensation and Governance
    Committee (in the case of the fifth item below)







and the members of such committee not voting in favor of the
    action do not include the AIB Designee serving on such committee
    and at least one other member of the committee who is not an AIB
    Designee:

•Any reduction in M&T’s cash dividend policy such that
    the ratio of cash dividends to net income is less than 15%, or
    any extraordinary dividends or distributions to holders of
    M&T common stock;•Any acquisition of any assets or businesses, (1) if the
    consideration is in M&T common stock, where the stock
    consideration paid by M&T exceeds 10% of the aggregate
    voting power of M&T common stock and (2) if the
    consideration is cash, M&T stock or other consideration,
    where the fair market value of the consideration paid by
    M&T exceeds 10% of the market capitalization of M&T,
    as determined under the Reorganization Agreement;•Any sale of any assets or businesses in which the value of the
    aggregate consideration to be received exceeds 10% of the market
    capitalization of M&T, as determined under the
    Reorganization Agreement;•Any liquidation or dissolution of M&T;•The appointment or election of the Chairman of the board of
    directors or the Chief Executive Officer of M&T; and•Any public announcement disclosing M&T’s desire or
    intention to take any of the foregoing actions prior to
    obtaining the requisite committee approval.



The provisions of the bylaws described above may not be amended
    or repealed without the unanimous approval of the entire
    M&T board of directors or the approval of the holders of
    not less than 80% of the outstanding shares of M&T common
    stock. The provisions of the bylaws described above will
    automatically terminate when AIB holds less than 5% of the
    outstanding shares of M&T common stock.



Investment
    Parameters

The Reorganization Agreement provides that through the second
    anniversary of the Sunset Date, without prior written consent of
    the M&T board of directors, AIB will not, directly or
    indirectly, acquire or offer to acquire (except by way of stock
    dividends, offerings made available to M&T shareholders
    generally, or pursuant to compensation plans) more than 25% of
    the then outstanding shares of M&T common stock. Further,
    during this period, AIB and AIB’s subsidiaries have agreed
    not to participate in any proxy solicitation or to otherwise
    seek to influence any M&T shareholder with respect to the
    voting of any shares of M&T common stock for the approval
    of any shareholder proposals.

The Reorganization Agreement also provides that, during this
    period, AIB will not make any public announcement with respect
    to any proposal or offer by AIB or any AIB subsidiary with
    respect to certain transactions (such as mergers, business
    combinations, tender or exchange offers, the sale or purchase of
    securities or similar transactions) involving M&T or any of
    the M&T subsidiaries. The Reorganization Agreement also
    provides that, during this period, AIB may not subject any
    shares of M&T common stock to any voting trust or voting
    arrangement or agreement and will not execute any written
    consent as a shareholder with respect to the M&T common
    stock.

The Reorganization Agreement also provides that, during this
    period, AIB will not seek to control or influence the
    management, the board of directors or policies of M&T,
    including through communications with shareholders of M&T
    or otherwise, except through non-public communications with the
    directors of M&T, including the AIB Designees.

These restrictions on AIB will no longer apply if a third party
    commences or announces its intention to commence a tender offer
    or an exchange offer and, within a reasonable time, the M&T
    board of directors either does not recommend that shareholders
    not accept the offer or fails to adopt a shareholders rights
    plan, or if M&T or M&T Bank becomes subject to any
    regulatory capital directive or becomes an institution in
    “troubled” condition under applicable banking
    regulations. However, in the event the tender offer or exchange
    offer is not commenced or consummated in accordance with its
    terms, the restrictions on AIB described above will thereafter
    continue to apply.



Anti-Dilution
    Protections

M&T has agreed that until the Sunset Date, in the event
    M&T issues shares of M&T stock (other than certain
    issuances to employees pursuant to option and benefit plans),
    subject to applicable law and







regulatory requirements, AIB will have the right to purchase at
    fair market value up to the number of shares of M&T common
    stock required to increase or maintain its equity interest in
    M&T to 22.5% of the then outstanding M&T common stock.

M&T has also agreed that until the Sunset Date, in
    connection with any issuance of M&T stock pursuant to
    employee option or benefit plans, M&T will as soon as
    reasonably practicable, taking into account applicable law,
    regulatory capital requirements, capital planning and risk
    management, take such necessary actions so that AIB’s
    proportionate ownership of M&T common stock is not reduced
    as a result of such issuances, including by funding such
    issuances through purchases of M&T common stock in the open
    market or by undertaking share repurchase programs.



Sale of
    M&T Common Stock; Right of First Refusal in Certain
    Circumstances

The M&T common stock issued to AIB was not registered under
    the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and
    may only be disposed of by AIB pursuant to an effective
    registration statement or pursuant to an exemption from
    registration under the Securities Act and subject to the
    provisions of the Reorganization Agreement.

M&T and AIB have entered into a registration rights
    agreement that provides that upon AIB’s request, M&T
    will file a registration statement relating to all or a portion
    of AIB’s shares of M&T common stock providing for the
    sale of such shares by AIB from time to time on a continuous
    basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act,
    provided that M&T need only effect one such “shelf
    registration” in any12-monthperiod. In addition, the registration rights agreement provides
    that AIB is entitled to demand registration under the Securities
    Act of all or part of its shares of M&T stock, provided
    that M&T is not obligated to effect two such “demand
    registrations” in any12-monthperiod. Any demand or shelf registration must cover no less than
    one million shares.

The registration rights agreement further provides that in the
    event M&T proposes to file a registration statement other
    than pursuant to a shelf registration or demand registration orForms S-8orS-4,for
    an offering and sale of shares by M&T in an underwritten
    offering or an offering and sale of shares on behalf of one or
    more selling shareholders, M&T must give AIB notice at
    least 15 days prior to the anticipated filing date, and AIB
    may request that all or a portion of its M&T common shares
    be included in the registration statement. M&T will honor
    the request, unless the managing underwriter advises M&T in
    writing that in its opinion the inclusion of all shares
    requested to be included by M&T, the other selling
    shareholders, if any, and AIB would materially and adversely
    affect the offering, in which case M&T may limit the number
    of shares included in the offering to a number that would not
    reasonably be expected to have such an effect. In such event,
    the number of shares to be included in the registration
    statement shall first include the number of shares requested to
    be included by M&T and then the shares requested by other
    selling shareholders, including AIB, on a pro rata basis
    according to the number of shares requested to be included in
    the registration statement by each shareholder.

As long as AIB holds 5% or more of the outstanding shares of
    M&T common stock, AIB will not dispose of any of its shares
    of M&T common stock except, subject to the terms and
    conditions of the Reorganization Agreement and applicable law,
    in a widely dispersed public distribution; a private placement
    in which no one party acquires the right to purchase more than
    2% of the outstanding shares of M&T common stock; an
    assignment to a single party (such as a broker or investment
    banker) for the purpose of conducting a widely dispersed public
    distribution on AIB’s behalf; pursuant to Rule 144
    under the Securities Act; pursuant to a tender or exchange offer
    to M&T’s shareholders not opposed by M&T’s
    board of directors, or open market purchase programs made by
    M&T; with the consent of M&T, which consent will not
    be unreasonably withheld, to a controlled subsidiary of AIB; or
    pursuant to M&T’s right of first refusal as described
    below.

The Reorganization Agreement provides that until AIB no longer
    holds at least 5% of the outstanding shares of M&T common
    stock, if AIB wishes to sell or otherwise transfer any of its
    shares of M&T common stock other than as described in the
    preceding paragraph, AIB must first submit an offer notice to
    M&T identifying the proposed transferee and setting forth
    the proposed terms of the transaction, which shall be limited to
    sales for cash, cash equivalents or marketable securities.
    M&T will have the right, for 20 days following receipt
    of an offer notice from AIB, to purchase all (but not less than
    all) of the shares of M&T common stock that AIB wishes to
    sell, on the proposed terms specified in







the offer notice. If M&T declines or fails to respond to
    the offer notice within 20 days, AIB may sell all or a
    portion of the M&T shares specified in the offer notice to
    the proposed transferee at a purchase price equal to or greater
    than the price specified in the offer notice, at any time during
    the three months following the date of the offer notice, or, if
    prior notification to or approval of the sale by the Federal
    Reserve Board or another regulatory agency is required, AIB
    shall pursue regulatory approval expeditiously and the sale may
    occur on the first date permitted under applicable law.



Certain
    Post-Closing Bank Regulatory Matters

The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
    (“Federal Reserve Board”) deems AIB to be
    M&T’s bank holding company for purposes of the BHCA.
    In addition, the New York Banking Superintendent (“Banking
    Superintendent”) deems AIB to be M&T’s bank
    holding company for purposes ofArticle III-Aof the Banking Law. Among other things, this means that, should
    M&T propose to make an acquisition or engage in a new type
    of activity that requires the submission of an application or
    notice to the Federal Reserve Board or the Banking
    Superintendent, AIB, as well as M&T, may also be required
    to file an application or notice. The Reorganization Agreement
    generally provides that AIB will make any applications, notices
    or filings that M&T determines to be necessary or
    desirable. The Reorganization Agreement also requires AIB not to
    take any action that would have a material adverse effect on
    M&T and to advise M&T prior to entering into any
    material transaction or activity. These provisions of the
    Reorganization Agreement would no longer apply if AIB ceased to
    be M&T’s bank holding company and also was not
    otherwise considered to control M&T for purposes of the
    BHCA.

30-day

As long as AIB is considered to “control” M&T for
    purposes of the BHCA or the federal Change in Bank Control Act,
    if AIB acquires any insured depository institution with total
    assets greater than 25% of the assets of M&T’s largest
    insured depository institution subsidiary, then within two years
    AIB must terminate its affiliation with the insured depository
    institution or take such steps as may be necessary so that none
    of M&T’s bank subsidiaries would be subject to
    “cross guarantee” liability for losses incurred if the
    institution AIB acquired potentially were to fail. This
    liability applies under the FDI Act to insured depository
    institutions that are commonly controlled. The actions AIB would
    take could include disposing of shares of M&T common stockand/orsurrendering its representation or governance rights. Also, if
    such an insured depository institution that is controlled by AIB
    and of the size described in the first sentence of this
    paragraph that would be considered to be commonly controlled
    with M&T’s insured depository institution subsidiaries
    fails to meet applicable requirements to be “adequately
    capitalized” under applicable U.S. banking laws, then
    AIB will have to take the actions described in the previous







sentence no later than 180 days after the date that the
    institution failed to meet those requirements, unless the
    institution is sooner returned to “adequately
    capitalized” status.



Subsidiaries

M&T Bank, N.A., a national banking association and a member
    of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC, commenced operations
    on October 2, 1995. The deposit liabilities of M&T
    Bank, N.A. are insured by the FDIC through the DIF. The main
    office of M&T Bank, N.A. is located at 48 Main Street,
    Oakfield, New York 14125. M&T Bank, N.A. offers selected
    deposit and loan products on a nationwide basis, through direct
    mail, telephone marketing techniques and the Internet. As of
    December 31, 2009, M&T Bank, N.A. had total assets of
    $908 million, deposits of $523 million and
    stockholder’s equity of $146 million.

M&T Life Insurance Company (“M&T Life
    Insurance”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T, was
    incorporated as an Arizona business corporation in January 1984.
    M&T Life Insurance is a captive credit reinsurer which
    reinsures credit life and accident and health insurance
    purchased by the Company’s consumer loan customers. As of
    December 31, 2009, M&T Life Insurance had assets of
    $33 million and stockholder’s equity of
    $30 million. M&T Life Insurance recorded revenues of
    $1 million during 2009. Headquarters of M&T Life
    Insurance are located at 101 North First Avenue, Phoenix,
    Arizona 85003.

M&T Credit Services, LLC (“M&T Credit”), a
    wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was a New York limited
    liability company that was merged into M&T Bank, effective
    April 1, 2009. M&T Credit was a credit and leasing
    company offering consumer loans and commercial loans and leases.
    M&T Credit recorded $60 million of revenue during 2009
    prior to its merger into M&T Bank .

M&T Insurance Agency, Inc. (“M&T Insurance
    Agency”), a wholly owned insurance agency subsidiary of
    M&T Bank, was incorporated as a New York corporation in
    March 1955. M&T Insurance Agency provides insurance agency
    services principally to the commercial market. As of
    December 31, 2009, M&T Insurance Agency had assets of
    $40 million and stockholder’s equity of
    $26 million. M&T Insurance Agency recorded revenues of
    $22 million during 2009. The headquarters of M&T
    Insurance Agency are located at 285 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo,
    New York 14202.

M&T Mortgage Reinsurance Company, Inc. (“M&T
    Reinsurance”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank,
    was incorporated as a Vermont business corporation in July 1999.
    M&T Reinsurance enters into reinsurance contracts with
    insurance companies who insure against the risk of a mortgage
    borrower’s payment default in connection with M&T
    Bank-related mortgage loans. M&T Reinsurance receives a







share of the premium for those policies in exchange for
    accepting a portion of the insurer’s risk of borrower
    default. As of December 31, 2009, M&T Reinsurance had
    assets of $39 million and stockholder’s equity of
    $23 million. M&T Reinsurance recorded approximately
    $9 million of revenue during 2009. M&T
    Reinsurance’s principal and registered office is at 148
    College Street, Burlington, Vermont 05401.

M&T Real Estate Trust (“M&T Real Estate”) is
    a Maryland Real Estate Investment Trust that was formed through
    the merger of two separate subsidiaries, but traces its origin
    to the incorporation of M&T Real Estate, Inc. in July 1995.
    M&T Real Estate engages in commercial real estate lending
    and provides loan servicing to M&T Bank. As of
    December 31, 2009, M&T Real Estate had assets of
    $16.2 billion, common stockholder’s equity of
    $15.6 billion, and preferred stockholders’ equity,
    consisting of 9% fixed-rate preferred stock (par value $1,000),
    of $1 million. All of the outstanding common stock and 89%
    of the preferred stock of M&T Real Estate is owned by
    M&T Bank. The remaining 11% of M&T Real Estate’s
    outstanding preferred stock is owned by officers or former
    officers of the Company. M&T Real Estate recorded
    $743 million of revenue in 2009. The headquarters of
    M&T Real Estate are located at M&T Center, One
    Fountain Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203.

M&T Realty Capital Corporation (“M&T Realty
    Capital”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was
    incorporated as a Maryland corporation in October 1973. M&T
    Realty Capital engages in multifamily commercial real estate
    lending and provides loan servicing to purchasers of the loans
    it originates. As of December 31, 2009 M&T Realty
    Capital serviced $7.1 billion of commercial mortgage loans
    for non-affiliates and had assets of $205 million and
    stockholder’s equity of $29 million. M&T Realty
    Capital recorded revenues of $47 million in 2009. The
    headquarters of M&T Realty Capital are located at 25 South
    Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.

M&T Securities, Inc. (“M&T Securities”) is a
    wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank that was incorporated
    as a New York business corporation in November 1985. M&T
    Securities is registered as a broker/dealer under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as an investment advisor
    under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended. M&T
    Securities is licensed as a life insurance agent in each state
    where M&T Bank operates branch offices and in a number of
    other states. It provides securities brokerage, investment
    advisory and insurance services. As of December 31, 2009,
    M&T Securities had assets of $55 million and
    stockholder’s equity of $44 million. M&T
    Securities recorded $83 million of revenue during 2009. The
    headquarters of M&T Securities are located at One M&T
    Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203.

MTB Investment Advisors, Inc. (“MTB Investment
    Advisors”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was
    incorporated as a Maryland corporation on June 30, 1995.
    MTB Investment Advisors serves as investment advisor to the MTB
    Group of Funds, a family of proprietary mutual funds, and
    institutional clients. As of December 31, 2009, MTB
    Investment Advisors had assets of $17 million and
    stockholder’s equity of $14 million. MTB Investment
    Advisors recorded revenues of $43 million in 2009. The
    headquarters of MTB Investment Advisors are located at 100 East
    Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.

The Registrant and its banking subsidiaries have a number of
    other special-purpose or inactive subsidiaries. These other
    subsidiaries did not represent, individually and collectively, a
    significant portion of the Company’s consolidated assets,
    net income and stockholders’ equity at December 31,
    2009.



Segment
    Information, Principal Products/Services and Foreign
    Operations

Information about the Registrant’s business segments is
    included in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements filed
    herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data” and is further discussed
    in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.” The Registrant’s reportable segments have
    been determined based upon its internal profitability reporting
    system, which is organized by strategic business unit. Certain
    strategic business units have been combined for segment
    information reporting purposes where the nature of the products
    and services, the type of customer and the distribution of those
    products and services are similar. The reportable segments are
    Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate,
    Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail
    Banking. The Company’s international activities are
    discussed in note 17 of Notes to Financial Statements filed
    herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.”







The only activities that, as a class, contributed 10% or more of
    the sum of consolidated interest income and other income in any
    of the last three years were interest on loans and investment
    securities and fees for providing deposit account services. The
    amount of income from such sources during those years is set
    forth on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Income
    filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.”



Supervision
    and Regulation of the Company

The banking industry is subject to extensive state and federal
    regulation and continues to undergo significant change. The
    following discussion summarizes certain aspects of the banking
    laws and regulations that affect the Company. Proposals to
    change the laws and regulations governing the banking industry
    are frequently raised in Congress, in state legislatures, and
    before the various bank regulatory agencies. The likelihood and
    timing of any changes and the impact such changes might have on
    the Company are impossible to determine with any certainty. A
    change in applicable laws or regulations, or a change in the way
    such laws or regulations are interpreted by regulatory agencies
    or courts, may have a material impact on the business,
    operations and earnings of the Company. To the extent that the
    following information describes statutory or regulatory
    provisions, it is qualified entirely by reference to the
    particular statutory or regulatory provision.



Financial
    Services Modernization

Under the BHCA, bank holding companies are permitted to offer
    their customers virtually any type of financial service that is
    financial in nature or incidental thereto, including banking,
    securities underwriting, insurance (both underwriting and
    agency), and merchant banking.

In order to engage in these financial activities, a bank holding
    company must qualify and register with the Federal Reserve Board
    as a “financial holding company” by demonstrating that
    each of its bank subsidiaries is “well capitalized,”
    “well managed,” and has at least a
    “satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment
    Act of 1977 (“CRA”). To date, M&T has not elected
    to register as a financial holding company. For as long as AIB
    owns at least 15% of M&T’s outstanding common stock,
    M&T may not become a financial holding company without the
    approval of the Executive Committee of the M&T board of
    directors, which must also include the affirmative approval of
    the AIB Designee on such committee, as described above under the
    caption “Amendments to M&T’s Bylaws.”



Bank
    Holding Company Regulation

As a registered bank holding company, the Registrant and its
    nonbank subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation
    under the BHCA by the Federal Reserve Board and under the
    Banking Law by the Banking Superintendent. The Federal Reserve
    Board requires regular reports from the Registrant and is
    authorized by the BHCA to make regular examinations of the
    Registrant and its subsidiaries.







The Registrant may not acquire direct or indirect ownership or
    control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company,
    including a bank, without the prior approval of the Federal
    Reserve Board, except as specifically authorized under the BHCA.
    The Registrant is also subject to regulation under the Banking
    Law with respect to certain acquisitions of domestic banks.
    Under the BHCA, the Registrant, subject to the approval of the
    Federal Reserve Board, may acquire shares of non-banking
    corporations the activities of which are deemed by the Federal
    Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or
    controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto.

The Federal Reserve Board has enforcement powers over bank
    holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries, among
    other things, to interdict activities that represent unsafe or
    unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule,
    regulation, administrative orders or written agreements with a
    federal bank regulator. These powers may be exercised through
    the issuance ofcease-and-desistorders, civil money penalties or other actions.

The BHCA generally permits bank holding companies to acquire
    banks in any state, and preempts all state laws restricting the
    ownership by a bank holding company of banks in more than one
    state. The FDI Act also permits a bank to merge with anout-of-statebank and convert any offices into branches of the resulting bank
    if both states have not opted out of interstate branching;
    permits a bank to acquire branches from anout-of-statebank if the law of the state where the branches are located
    permits the interstate branch acquisition; and permits banks to
    establish and operate de novo interstate branches whenever the
    host state opts-in to de novo branching. Bank holding companies
    and banks seeking to engage in transactions authorized by these
    laws must be adequately capitalized and managed.

The Banking Law authorizes interstate branching by merger or
    acquisition on a reciprocal basis, and permits the acquisition
    of a single branch without restriction, but does not provide for
    de novo interstate branching.







Law contains provisions similar to the CRA which are applicable
    to New York-chartered banks. M&T Bank has a CRA rating of
    “Outstanding” as determined by the New York State
    Banking Department.



Supervision
    and Regulation of Bank Subsidiaries

The Registrant’s bank subsidiaries are subject to
    supervision and regulation, and are examined regularly, by
    various bank regulatory agencies: M&T Bank by the Federal
    Reserve Board and the Banking Superintendent; and M&T Bank,
    N.A. by the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”). The
    Registrant and its direct non-banking subsidiaries are
    affiliates, within the meaning of the Federal Reserve Act, of
    the Registrant’s subsidiary banks and their subsidiaries.
    As a result, the Registrant’s subsidiary banks and their
    subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on loans or extensions
    of credit to, purchases of assets from, investments in, and
    transactions with the Registrant and its direct non-banking
    subsidiaries and on certain other transactions with them or
    involving their securities. Similar restrictions are imposed on
    the Registrant’s subsidiary banks making loans or extending
    credit to, purchasing assets from, investing in, or entering
    into transactions with, their financial subsidiaries.

Under the “cross-guarantee” provisions of the FDI Act,
    insured depository institutions under common control are
    required to reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered by the FDIC
    as a result of the default of a commonly controlled insured
    depository institution or for any assistance provided by the
    FDIC to a commonly controlled insured depository institution in
    danger of default. Thus, any insured depository institution
    subsidiary of M&T could incur liability to the FDIC in the
    event of a default of another insured depository institution
    owned or controlled by M&T. The FDIC’s claim under the
    cross-guarantee provisions is superior to claims of stockholders
    of the insured depository institution or its holding company and
    to most claims arising out of obligations or liabilities owed to
    affiliates of the institution, but is subordinate to claims of
    depositors, secured creditors and holders of subordinated debt
    (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured
    depository institution. The FDIC may decline to enforce the
    cross-guarantee provisions if it determines that a waiver is in
    the best interest of the DIF.



Dividends

The Registrant is a legal entity separate and distinct from its
    banking and other subsidiaries. Historically, the majority of
    the Registrant’s revenue has been from dividends paid to
    the Registrant by its subsidiary banks. M&T Bank and
    M&T Bank, N.A. are subject, under one or more of the
    banking laws, to restrictions on the amount of dividend
    declarations. Future dividend payments to the Registrant by its
    subsidiary banks will be dependent on a number of factors,
    including the earnings and financial condition of each such
    bank, and are subject to the limitations referred to in
    note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in
    Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data,” and to other statutory powers of bank
    regulatory agencies.

An insured depository institution is prohibited from making any
    capital distribution to its owner, including any dividend, if,
    after making such distribution, the depository institution fails
    to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital
    measure, including the risk-based capital adequacy and leverage
    standards discussed herein.

As described herein under the heading “The Emergency
    Economic Stabilization Act of 2008,” in connection with the
    issuance of Series A Preferred Stock to the
    U.S. Treasury Department (“U.S. Treasury”),
    M&T is restricted from increasing its common stock dividend.



Supervision
    and Regulation of M&T Bank’s Subsidiaries

M&T Bank has a number of subsidiaries. These subsidiaries
    are subject to the laws and regulations of both the federal
    government and the various states in which they conduct
    business. For example, M&T Securities is regulated by the
    Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry
    Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators.



Capital
    Adequacy

The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC have adopted
    risk-based capital adequacy guidelines for bank holding
    companies and banks under their supervision. Under these
    guidelines, the so-called







“Tier 1 capital” and “Total capital” as
    a percentage of risk-weighted assets and certain off-balance
    sheet instruments must be at least 4% and 8%, respectively.

The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC have also
    imposed a leverage standard to supplement their risk-based
    ratios. This leverage standard focuses on a banking
    institution’s ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total
    assets, adjusted for goodwill and certain other items. Under
    these guidelines, banking institutions that meet certain
    criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low
    interest rate exposure and good earnings, and that have received
    the highest regulatory rating must maintain a ratio of
    Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets of at least
    3%. Institutions not meeting these criteria, as well as
    institutions with supervisory, financial or operational
    weaknesses, along with those experiencing or anticipating
    significant growth are expected to maintain a Tier 1
    capital to total adjusted average assets ratio equal to at least
    4% to 5%. As reflected in the table in note 23 of Notes to
    Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II,
    Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data,” the risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratios of
    the Registrant, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. as of
    December 31, 2009 exceeded the required capital ratios for
    classification as “well capitalized,” the highest
    classification under the regulatory capital guidelines.

The federal banking agencies, including the Federal Reserve
    Board and the OCC, maintain risk-based capital standards in
    order to ensure that those standards take adequate account of
    interest rate risk, concentration of credit risk, the risk of
    nontraditional activities and equity investments in nonfinancial
    companies, as well as reflect the actual performance and
    expected risk of loss on certain multifamily housing loans. Bank
    regulators periodically propose amendments to the risk-based
    capital guidelines and related regulatory framework, and
    consider changes to the risk-based capital standards that could
    significantly increase the amount of capital needed to meet the
    requirements for the capital tiers described below. While the
    Company’s management studies such proposals, the timing of
    adoption, ultimate form and effect of any such proposed
    amendments on M&T’s capital requirements and
    operations cannot be predicted.

The federal banking agencies are required to take “prompt
    corrective action” in respect of depository institutions
    and their bank holding companies that do not meet minimum
    capital requirements. The FDI Act establishes five capital
    tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately
    capitalized,” “undercapitalized,”
    “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically
    undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital
    tier, or that of its bank holding company, depends upon where
    its capital levels are in relation to various relevant capital
    measures, including a risk-based capital measure and a leverage
    ratio capital measure, and certain other factors.

“Undercapitalized” depository institutions, among
    other things, are subject to growth limitations, are prohibited,
    with certain exceptions, from making capital distributions, are
    limited in their ability to







Each federal banking agency prescribes standards for depository
    institutions and depository institution holding companies
    relating to internal controls, information systems, internal
    audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest
    rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, a maximum ratio of
    classified assets to capital, minimum earnings sufficient to
    absorb losses, a minimum ratio of market value to book value for
    publicly traded shares and other standards as they deem
    appropriate. The Federal Reserve Board and OCC have adopted such
    standards.

Depository institutions that are not “well
    capitalized” or “adequately capitalized” and have
    not received a waiver from the FDIC are prohibited from
    accepting or renewing brokered deposits. As of December 31,
    2009, M&T Bank had approximately $1.5 billion of
    brokered deposits, while M&T Bank, N.A. did not have any
    brokered deposits at that date.

Although M&T has issued shares of common stock in
    connection with acquisitions or at other times, the Company has
    generally maintained capital ratios in excess of minimum
    regulatory guidelines largely through internal capital
    generation (i.e. net income less dividends paid).
    Management’s policy of managing capital through
    reinvestment of earnings, repurchases of shares of common stock
    and dividends is intended to enhance M&T’s earnings
    per share prospects and thereby reward stockholders over time
    with capital gains in the form of increased stock price.



The
    Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008; American Recovery
    and Reinvestment Act of 2009













On August 26, 2009, the FDIC extended the TAG for an
    additional six months for those insured depository institutions
    that elected to continue in the program. M&T Bank and
    M&T Bank, N.A. elected to continue in the TAG through
    June 30, 2010, when the program will end. The surcharge for
    coverage in the program after December 31, 2009 was raised
    to 15 basis points based upon M&T Bank and M&T
    Bank, N.A. being assigned the lowest risk category by the FDIC
    under its risk-based premium system. Pursuant to the terms of
    the TAG, after June 30, 2010 funds held at M&T Bank
    and M&T Bank N.A. in noninterest-bearing transaction
    accounts will no longer be guaranteed in full, but will be
    insured under the FDIC’s general deposit insurance rules.
    As a result of the FDIC’s actions to phase out the Debt
    Guarantee Program under the TLGP, M&T Bank and M&T
    Bank, N.A. ceased their participation in that program on
    October 31, 2009.



FDIC
    Deposit Insurance Assessments

As institutions with deposits insured by the FDIC, M&T Bank
    and M&T Bank, N.A. are subject to FDIC deposit insurance
    assessments. Under the provisions of the FDI Act, the regular
    insurance assessments to be paid by insured institutions are
    specified in schedules issued by the FDIC that specify a target
    reserve ratio designed to maintain that ratio between 1.15% and
    1.50% of estimated insured deposits.

Under the FDI Act, the FDIC imposed deposit insurance
    assessments based on one of four assessment categories depending
    on an institution’s capital classification under the prompt
    corrective action provisions described above and an
    institution’s long-term debt issuer ratings. The adjusted
    assessment rates for insured institutions under the modified
    system range from .05% to .43% of assessable deposits depending
    upon the assessment category into which the insured institution
    is placed. The annual assessment rates for M&T Bank and
    M&T Bank N.A. during 2008 were each between .05% and .06%.

The FDI Act also allows for a one-time assessment credit for
    eligible insured depository institutions (those institutions
    that were in existence on December 31, 1996 and paid a
    deposit insurance assessment prior to that date, or are a
    successor to any such institution). The credit is determined
    based on the assessment base of the institution as of
    December 31, 1996 as compared with the combined aggregate
    assessment base of all eligible institutions as of that date.
    Those institutions having credits could use them to offset up to
    100% of the 2007 DIF assessment, and if not completely used in
    2007, may apply the remaining credits to not more than 90% of
    each of the aggregate 2008, 2009 and 2010 DIF assessments.
    M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. offset 90% of their DIF
    assessments with available one-time assessment credits during
    2008. During 2008, credits utilized to offset amounts assessed
    for M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. totaled
    $18 million and $268 thousand, respectively. Assessments
    for M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A., during 2009 which
    were offset by available credits, were $9 million and $261
    thousand, respectively. All credits available to M&T Bank
    and M&T Bank, N.A. to offset DIF assessments had been
    utilized as of December 31, 2009.

In December 2008, the FDIC approved a final rule on deposit
    assessment rates for the first quarter of 2009. The rule raised
    assessment rates uniformly by 7 basis points (annually) for
    the first quarter of 2009 only. On February, 27, 2009, the FDIC
    adopted a final rule modifying the risk-based assessment system
    and setting initial base assessment rates beginning
    April 1, 2009 and an interim final rule imposing a special
    assessment on each insured depository institution to increase
    the DIF reserve ratio. The final rule revising the FDIC
    risk-based assessment system, which was first proposed in
    October 2008, adjusted the risk-based calculation for an
    institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and
    brokered deposits. The revisions effectively result in a range
    of possible assessments under the risk-based system of 7 to
    77.5 basis points of assessable deposits. The basic
    assessments for Risk Category I, applicable to the least
    risky institutions, including M&T, range from 12 to
    16 basis points, but can be adjusted to from 7 to
    24 basis points under the revised system. The interim final
    rule proposing the emergency assessment contemplated a
    20 basis point assessment on each insured depository
    institution’s insured deposits as of June 30, 2009 and
    collected on September 30, 2009.

On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule reducing the
    amount of the proposed emergency assessment and imposed a
    5 basis point special assessment on each insured depository
    institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of
    June 30, 2009. The amount of the special assessment for any
    institution could not exceed 10 basis points times the
    institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of
    2009. The







special assessment was collected on September 30, 2009. The
    Company’s special assessment amounted to $33 million.

On September 29, 2009, the FDIC proposed a rule that was
    subsequently adopted in final form by the FDIC board of
    directors on November 12, 2009 that required insured
    depository institutions to prepay their quarterly risk-based
    assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010,
    2011, and 2012, on December 30, 2009, along with each
    institution’s risk-based deposit insurance assessment for
    the third quarter of 2009. For purposes of calculating the
    amount to prepay, the FDIC required that institutions use their
    total base assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009
    and increase that assessment base quarterly at a 5 percent
    annual growth rate through the end of 2012. On
    September 29, 2009, the FDIC also increased annual
    assessment rates uniformly by 3 basis points beginning in
    2011 such that an institution’s assessment for 2011 and
    2012 would be increased by an annualized 3 basis points.
    The Company’s prepayment for 2010, 2011 and 2012 amounted
    to $249 million.

In addition to the standard deposit insurance assessments, as
    noted above, in the third quarter of 2008, the FDIC announced
    the TLGP which temporarily guarantees the senior debt of all
    FDIC-insured institutions and certain holding companies, as well
    as deposits in noninterest-bearing deposit transaction accounts.
    As a result, the Company recognized additional FDIC insurance
    expense of approximately $500 thousand in the final quarter of
    2008 and $7 million during 2009. The Company expects
    assessments related to the TLGP in the first half of 2010 of
    approximately $6 million - $7 million.

Incremental to insurance fund assessments, the FDIC assesses
    deposits to fund the repayment of debt obligations of the
    Financing Corporation (“FICO”). FICO is a government
    agency-sponsored entity that was formed to borrow the money
    necessary to carry out the closing and ultimate disposition of
    failed thrift institutions by the Resolution
    Trust Corporation. The current annualized rate established
    by the FDIC is 1.06 basis points.



Consumer
    Protection Laws

In connection with their respective lending and leasing
    activities, M&T Bank, certain of its subsidiaries, and
    M&T Bank, N.A. are each subject to a number of federal and
    state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to
    various sectors of the economy. These laws include the Equal
    Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair
    and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Truth in Lending Act,
    the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, and the Real Estate Settlement
    Procedures Act, and various state law counterparts.

In addition, federal law currently contains extensive customer
    privacy protection provisions. Under these provisions, a
    financial institution must provide to its customers, at the
    inception of the customer relationship and annually thereafter,
    the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the
    handling of customers’ nonpublic personal financial
    information. These provisions also provide that, except for
    certain limited exceptions, a financial institution may not
    provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties
    unless the institution discloses to the customer that such
    information may be so provided and the customer is given the
    opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it
    a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain
    or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature
    by fraudulent or deceptive means.

Effective July 1, 2010, a new federal banking rule under
    the Electronic Fund Transfer Act will prohibit financial
    institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts
    on automated teller machines (“ATM”) and one-time
    debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in,
    to the overdraft service for those type of transactions. If a
    consumer does not opt in, any ATM transaction or debit that
    overdraws the consumer’s account will be denied. Overdrafts
    on the payment of checks and regular electronic bill payments
    are not covered by this new rule. Before opting in, the consumer
    must be provided a notice that explains the financial
    institution’s overdraft services, including the fees
    associated with the service, and the consumer’s choices.
    Financial institutions must provide consumers who do not opt in
    with the same account terms, conditions and features (including
    pricing) that they provide to consumers who do opt in.







Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002



USA
    Patriot Act

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate
    Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001
    (the “USA Patriot Act”) imposes obligations on
    U.S. financial institutions, including banks and broker
    dealer subsidiaries, to implement policies, procedures and
    controls which are reasonably designed to detect and report
    instances of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. In
    addition, provisions of the USA Patriot Act require the federal
    financial institution regulatory agencies to consider the
    effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money
    laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and bank
    holding company acquisitions. The Registrant and its impacted
    subsidiaries have approved policies and procedures that are
    believed to be compliant with the USA Patriot Act.



Regulatory
    Impact of M&T’s Relationship With AIB

As described above under the caption “Relationship With
    Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c.,” AIB owns approximately 22.6%
    of the issued and outstanding shares of M&T common stock
    and has representation on the M&T and M&T Bank boards
    of directors. As a result, AIB has become M&T’s bank
    holding company under the BHCA and the Banking Law and
    AIB’s relationship with M&T is subject to the statutes
    and regulations governing bank holding companies described
    above. Among other things, AIB will have to join M&T in
    applications by M&T for acquisitions and new activities.
    The Reorganization Agreement requires AIB to join in such
    applications at M&T’s request, subject to certain
    limitations. In addition, because AIB is regulated by the
    Central Bank of Ireland (“CBI”), the CBI may assert
    jurisdiction over M&T as a company controlled by AIB.
    Additional discussion of the regulatory implications of the
    Allfirst acquisition for M&T is set forth above under the
    caption “Certain Post-Closing Bank Regulatory Matters.”



Governmental
    Policies

The earnings of the Company are significantly affected by the
    monetary and fiscal policies of governmental authorities,
    including the Federal Reserve Board. Among the instruments of
    monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement
    these objectives are open-market operations in
    U.S. Government securities and federal funds, changes in
    the discount rate on member bank borrowings and changes in
    reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These
    instruments of monetary policy are used in varying combinations
    to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and
    deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans and paid for
    deposits. The Federal Reserve Board frequently uses these
    instruments of monetary policy, especially its open-market
    operations and the discount rate, to influence the level of
    interest rates and to affect the strength of the economy, the
    level of inflation or the price of







the dollar in foreign exchange markets. The monetary policies of
    the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the
    operating results of banking institutions in the past and are
    expected to continue to do so in the future. It is not possible
    to predict the nature of future changes in monetary and fiscal
    policies, or the effect which they may have on the
    Company’s business and earnings.



Competition



The Company competes in offering commercial and personal
    financial services with other banking institutions and with
    firms in a number of other industries, such as thrift
    institutions, credit unions, personal loan companies, sales
    finance companies, leasing companies, securities firms and
    insurance companies. Furthermore, diversified financial services
    companies are able to offer a combination of these services to
    their customers on a nationwide basis. The Company’s
    operations are significantly impacted by state and federal
    regulations applicable to the banking industry. Moreover, the
    provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, the Interstate
    Banking Act and the Banking Law have allowed for increased
    competition among diversified financial services providers.



Other
    Legislative Initiatives

Proposals may be introduced in the United States Congress and in
    the New York State Legislature and before various bank
    regulatory authorities which would alter the powers of, and
    restrictions on, different types of banking organizations and
    which would restructure part or all of the existing regulatory
    framework for banks, bank holding companies and other providers
    of financial services. Moreover, other bills may be introduced
    in Congress which would further regulate, deregulate or
    restructure the financial services industry, including proposals
    to substantially reform the regulatory framework. It is not
    possible to predict whether these or any other proposals will be
    enacted into law or, even if enacted, the effect which they may
    have on the Company’s business and earnings.



Other
    Information

Through a link on the Investor Relations section of
    M&T’s website at www.mtb.com, copies of
    M&T’s Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Qand Current Reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made
    available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable
    after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it
    to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of such
    reports and other information are also available at no charge to
    any person who requests them or at www.sec.gov. Such requests
    may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder
    Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor,
    Buffalo, NY14203-2399(Telephone:(716) 842-5138).



Corporate
    Governance

M&T’s Corporate Governance Standards and the following
    corporate governance documents are also available on
    M&T’s website at the Investor Relations link:
    Disclosure Policy; Executive Committee Charter; Nomination,
    Compensation and Governance Committee Charter; Audit and Risk
    Committee Charter; Financial Reporting and Disclosure Controls
    and Procedures Policy; Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior
    Financial Officers; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and
    Employee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing
    Matters. Copies of such governance documents are also available,
    free of charge, to any person who requests them. Such requests
    may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder
    Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor,
    Buffalo, NY14203-2399(Telephone:(716) 842-5138).







Statistical
    Disclosure Pursuant to Guide 3

See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere
    in this Annual Report onForm 10-K.Additional information is included in the following tables.



Table



SELECTED
    CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END BALANCES






(In thousands)



Interest-bearing deposits at banks$133,335$10,284$18,431$6,639$8,408

Federal funds sold20,11921,34748,03819,45811,220

Resell agreements—90,000—100,000—

Trading account386,984617,821281,244136,752191,617

Investment securities

U.S. Treasury and federal agencies4,006,9683,909,4933,540,6412,381,5843,016,374

Obligations of states and political subdivisions266,748135,585153,231130,207181,938

Other3,506,8933,874,1295,268,1264,739,8075,201,852



Total investment securities7,780,6097,919,2078,961,9987,251,5988,400,164

Loans and leases

Commercial, financial, leasing, etc.13,790,73714,563,09113,387,02611,896,55611,105,827

Real estate — construction4,726,5704,568,3684,190,0683,453,9812,335,498

Real estate — mortgage21,747,53319,224,00319,468,44917,940,08316,636,557

Consumer12,041,61711,004,27511,306,7199,916,33410,475,809



Total loans and leases52,306,45749,359,73748,352,26243,206,95440,553,691

Unearned discount(369,771)(359,274)(330,700)(259,657)(223,046)

Allowance for credit losses(878,022)(787,904)(759,439)(649,948)(637,663)



Loans and leases, net51,058,66448,212,55947,262,12342,297,34939,692,982

Goodwill3,524,6253,192,1283,196,4332,908,8492,904,081

Core deposit and other intangible assets182,418183,496248,556250,233108,260

Real estate and other assets owned94,60499,61740,17512,1419,486

Total assets68,880,39965,815,75764,875,63957,064,90555,146,406







Noninterest-bearing deposits13,794,6368,856,1148,131,6627,879,9778,141,928

NOW accounts1,396,4711,141,3081,190,161940,439901,938

Savings deposits23,676,79819,488,91815,419,35714,169,79013,839,150

Time deposits7,531,4959,046,93710,668,58111,490,62911,407,626

Deposits at foreign office1,050,4384,047,9865,856,4275,429,6682,809,532



Total deposits47,449,83842,581,26341,266,18839,910,50337,100,174

Short-term borrowings2,442,5823,009,7355,821,8973,094,2145,152,872

Long-term borrowings10,240,01612,075,14910,317,9456,890,7416,196,994

Total liabilities61,127,49259,031,02658,390,38350,783,81049,270,020

Stockholders’ equity7,752,9076,784,7316,485,2566,281,0955,876,386





Table



STOCKHOLDERS,
    EMPLOYEES AND OFFICES



Number at Year-End20092008200720062005Stockholders13,20711,19711,61110,08410,437Employees14,22613,62013,86913,35213,525Offices832725760736724











Table



CONSOLIDATED
    EARNINGS






(In thousands)



Interest income

Loans and leases, including fees$2,326,748$2,825,587$3,155,967$2,927,411$2,420,660

Deposits at banks34109300372169

Federal funds sold632548571,670807

Resell agreements661,81722,9783,9271

Trading account5341,4697442,4461,544

Investment securities

Fully taxable389,268438,409352,628363,401351,423

Exempt from federal taxes8,4849,94611,33914,86614,090



Total interest income2,725,1973,277,5913,544,8133,314,0932,788,694



Interest expense

NOW accounts1,1222,8944,6383,4612,182

Savings deposits112,550248,083250,313201,543139,445

Time deposits206,220330,389496,378551,514294,782

Deposits at foreign office2,39184,483207,990178,348120,122

Short-term borrowings7,129142,627274,079227,850157,853

Long-term borrowings340,037529,319461,178333,836279,967



Total interest expense669,4491,337,7951,694,5761,496,552994,351



Net interest income2,055,7481,939,7961,850,2371,817,5411,794,343

Provision for credit losses604,000412,000192,00080,00088,000



Net interest income after provision for credit losses1,451,7481,527,7961,658,2371,737,5411,706,343



Other income

Mortgage banking revenues207,561156,012111,893143,181136,114

Service charges on deposit accounts469,195430,532409,462380,950369,918

Trust income128,568156,149152,636140,781134,679

Brokerage services income57,61164,18659,53360,29555,572

Trading account and foreign exchange gains23,12517,63030,27124,76122,857

Gain on bank investment securities1,16534,4711,2042,5661,050

Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment (“OTTI”) losses(264,363)(182,222)(127,300)—(29,183)

Portion of OTTI losses recognized in other comprehensive income
    (before taxes)126,066————



Net OTTI losses recognized in earnings(138,297)(182,222)(127,300)—(29,183)

Equity in earnings of Bayview Lending Group LLC(25,898)(37,453)8,935——

Other revenues from operations325,076299,674286,355293,318258,711



Total other income1,048,106938,979932,9891,045,852949,718



Other expense

Salaries and employee benefits1,001,873957,086908,315873,353822,239

Equipment and net occupancy211,391188,845169,050168,776173,689

Printing, postage and supplies38,21635,86035,76533,95633,743

Amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets64,25566,64666,48663,00856,805

FDIC assessments96,5196,6894,2034,5054,546

Other costs of operations568,309471,870443,870408,153394,120



Total other expense1,980,5631,726,9961,627,6891,551,7511,485,142



Income before income taxes519,291739,779963,5371,231,6421,170,919

Income taxes139,400183,892309,278392,453388,736



Net income$379,891$555,887$654,259$839,189$782,183



Dividends declared

Common$326,617$308,501$281,900$249,817$198,619

Preferred31,946————









Table



COMMON
    SHAREHOLDER DATA



20092008200720062005Per shareNet incomeBasic$2.90$5.04$6.05$7.55$6.88Diluted2.895.015.957.376.73Cash dividends declared2.802.802.602.251.75Common stockholders’ equity at year-end59.3156.2958.9956.9452.39Tangible common stockholders’ equity at year-end28.2725.9427.9828.5725.91Dividend payout ratio97.36%55.62%43.12%29.79%25.42%





Table



CHANGES
    IN INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE(a)



2009 Compared with 20082008 Compared with 2007Resulting fromResulting fromTotalChanges in:TotalChanges in:ChangeVolumeRateChangeVolumeRate(Increase (decrease) in thousands)Interest incomeLoans and leases, including fees$(498,433)118,677(617,110)$(328,595)316,338(644,933)Deposits at banks(75)103(178)(191)36(227)Federal funds sold and agreements to resell securities(1,942)(729)(1,213)(21,764)(11,664)(10,100)Trading account(906)127(1,033)802250552Investment securitiesU.S. Treasury and federal agencies1,0653,008(1,943)80,48770,13710,350Obligations of states and political subdivisions3,9005,179(1,279)6241,169(545)Other(56,035)(35,242)(20,793)2,4438,964(6,521)Total interest income$(552,426)$(266,194)Interest expenseInterest-bearing depositsNOW accounts$(1,772)220(1,992)$(1,744)383(2,127)Savings deposits(135,533)52,405(187,938)(2,230)47,542(49,772)Time deposits(124,169)(25,770)(98,399)(165,989)(44,273)(121,716)Deposits at foreign office(82,092)(31,707)(50,385)(123,507)(9,424)(114,083)Short-term borrowings(135,498)(49,651)(85,847)(131,452)32,037(163,489)Long-term borrowings(189,282)(22,502)(166,780)68,141153,793(85,652)Total interest expense$(668,346)$(356,781)









(a)Interest income data are on a
    taxable-equivalent basis. The apportionment of changes resulting
    from the combined effect of both volume and rate was based on
    the separately determined volume and rate changes.



