Item 1. Business.



M&T Bank Corporation (“Registrant” or
    “M&T”) is a New York business corporation which
    is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding
    Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”) and underArticle III-Aof the New York Banking Law (“Banking Law”). The
    principal executive offices of the Registrant are located at One
    M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. The Registrant was
    incorporated in November 1969. The Registrant and its direct and
    indirect subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the
    “Company.” As of December 31, 2010 the Company
    had consolidated total assets of $68.0 billion, deposits of
    $49.8 billion and shareholders’ equity of
    $8.4 billion. The Company had 12,031 full-time and
    1,334 part-time employees as of December 31, 2010.

At December 31, 2010, the Registrant had two wholly owned
    bank subsidiaries: M&T Bank and M&T Bank, National
    Association (“M&T Bank, N.A.”). The banks
    collectively offer a wide range of commercial banking, trust and
    investment services to their customers. At December 31,
    2010, M&T Bank represented 99% of consolidated assets of
    the Company.

The Company from time to time considers acquiring banks, thrift
    institutions, branch offices of banks or thrift institutions, or
    other businesses within markets currently served by the Company
    or in other locations that would complement the Company’s
    business or its geographic reach. The Company has pursued
    acquisition opportunities in the past, continues to review
    different opportunities, including the possibility of major
    acquisitions, and intends to continue this practice.



Relationship
    with Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c.

On April 1, 2003, M&T completed the acquisition of
    Allfirst Financial Inc. (“Allfirst”), a bank holding
    company headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland from Allied Irish
    Banks, p.l.c. (“AIB”). Under the terms of the
    Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated September 26,
    2002 by and among AIB, Allfirst and M&T, M&T combined
    with Allfirst through the acquisition of all of the issued and
    outstanding Allfirst stock in exchange for
    26,700,000 shares of M&T common stock and $886,107,000
    in cash paid to AIB. Those shares of common stock owned by AIB
    represented 22.4% of the issued and outstanding shares of
    M&T common stock on September 30, 2010. In an effort
    to raise its capital position to meet new Irish
    government-mandated capital requirements, on November 4,
    2010 AIB sold those 26,700,000 shares. As a result, the
    provisions of the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization between
    M&T and AIB, which included several provisions related to
    AIB’s rights as a substantial shareholder in the corporate
    governance of M&T, became inoperative.



Subsidiaries







trade or business. Additional financial services are provided
    through other operating subsidiaries of the Company.

M&T Bank, N.A., a national banking association and a member
    of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC, commenced operations
    on October 2, 1995. The deposit liabilities of M&T
    Bank, N.A. are insured by the FDIC through the DIF. The main
    office of M&T Bank, N.A. is located at 48 Main Street,
    Oakfield, New York 14125. M&T Bank, N.A. offers selected
    deposit and loan products on a nationwide basis, through direct
    mail, telephone marketing techniques and the Internet. As of
    December 31, 2010, M&T Bank, N.A. had total assets of
    $797 million, deposits of $472 million and
    shareholder’s equity of $162 million.

M&T Life Insurance Company (“M&T Life
    Insurance”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T, was
    incorporated as an Arizona business corporation in January 1984.
    M&T Life Insurance is a captive credit reinsurer which
    reinsures credit life and accident and health insurance
    purchased by the Company’s consumer loan customers. As of
    December 31, 2010, M&T Life Insurance had assets of
    $33 million and shareholder’s equity of
    $31 million. M&T Life Insurance recorded revenues of
    $1 million during 2010. Headquarters of M&T Life
    Insurance are located at 101 North First Avenue, Phoenix,
    Arizona 85003.

M&T Insurance Agency, Inc. (“M&T Insurance
    Agency”), a wholly owned insurance agency subsidiary of
    M&T Bank, was incorporated as a New York corporation in
    March 1955. M&T Insurance Agency provides insurance agency
    services principally to the commercial market. As of
    December 31, 2010, M&T Insurance Agency had assets of
    $41 million and shareholder’s equity of
    $28 million. M&T Insurance Agency recorded revenues of
    $24 million during 2010. The headquarters of M&T
    Insurance Agency are located at 285 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo,
    New York 14202.

M&T Mortgage Reinsurance Company, Inc. (“M&T
    Reinsurance”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank,
    was incorporated as a Vermont business corporation in July 1999.
    M&T Reinsurance enters into reinsurance contracts with
    insurance companies who insure against the risk of a mortgage
    borrower’s payment default in connection with M&T
    Bank-related mortgage loans. M&T Reinsurance receives a
    share of the premium for those policies in exchange for
    accepting a portion of the insurer’s risk of borrower
    default. As of December 31, 2010, M&T Reinsurance had
    assets of $38 million and shareholder’s equity of
    $20 million. M&T Reinsurance recorded approximately
    $4 million of revenue during 2010. M&T
    Reinsurance’s principal and registered office is at 148
    College Street, Burlington, Vermont 05401.

M&T Real Estate Trust (“M&T Real Estate”) is
    a Maryland Real Estate Investment Trust that was formed through
    the merger of two separate subsidiaries, but traces its origin
    to the incorporation of M&T Real Estate, Inc. in July 1995.
    M&T Real Estate engages in commercial real estate lending
    and provides loan servicing to M&T Bank. As of
    December 31, 2010, M&T Real Estate had assets of
    $16.3 billion, common shareholder’s equity of
    $15.6 billion, and preferred shareholders’ equity,
    consisting of 9% fixed-rate preferred stock (par value $1,000),
    of $1 million. All of the outstanding common stock and 89%
    of the preferred stock of M&T Real Estate is owned by
    M&T Bank. The remaining 11% of M&T Real Estate’s
    outstanding preferred stock is owned by officers or former
    officers of the Company. M&T Real Estate recorded
    $774 million of revenue in 2010. The headquarters of
    M&T Real Estate are located at M&T Center, One
    Fountain Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203.

M&T Realty Capital Corporation (“M&T Realty
    Capital”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was
    incorporated as a Maryland corporation in October 1973. M&T
    Realty Capital engages in multifamily commercial real estate
    lending and provides loan servicing to purchasers of the loans
    it originates. As of December 31, 2010 M&T Realty
    Capital serviced $8.1 billion of commercial mortgage loans
    for non-affiliates and had assets of $321 million and
    shareholder’s equity of $47 million. M&T Realty
    Capital recorded revenues of $64 million in 2010. The
    headquarters of M&T Realty Capital are located at 25 South
    Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.

M&T Securities, Inc. (“M&T Securities”) is a
    wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank that was incorporated
    as a New York business corporation in November 1985. M&T
    Securities is registered as a broker/dealer under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as an investment advisor
    under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended. M&T
    Securities is licensed as a life insurance agent in each state
    where M&T Bank operates branch offices and in a number of
    other states. It provides securities brokerage, investment
    advisory and insurance services. As of December 31, 2010,
    M&T Securities had assets of $43 million and
    shareholder’s equity of $32 million. M&T
    Securities recorded







$78 million of revenue during 2010. The headquarters of
    M&T Securities are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo,
    New York 14203.

MTB Investment Advisors, Inc. (“MTB Investment
    Advisors”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was
    incorporated as a Maryland corporation on June 30, 1995.
    MTB Investment Advisors serves as investment advisor to the MTB
    Group of Funds, a family of proprietary mutual funds, and
    institutional clients. As of December 31, 2010, MTB
    Investment Advisors had assets of $17 million and
    shareholder’s equity of $13 million. MTB Investment
    Advisors recorded revenues of $34 million in 2010. The
    headquarters of MTB Investment Advisors are located at 100 East
    Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.

The Registrant and its banking subsidiaries have a number of
    other special-purpose or inactive subsidiaries. These other
    subsidiaries did not represent, individually and collectively, a
    significant portion of the Company’s consolidated assets,
    net income and shareholders’ equity at December 31,
    2010.



Segment
    Information, Principal Products/Services and Foreign
    Operations

Information about the Registrant’s business segments is
    included in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements filed
    herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data” and is further discussed
    in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.” The Registrant’s reportable segments have
    been determined based upon its internal profitability reporting
    system, which is organized by strategic business unit. Certain
    strategic business units have been combined for segment
    information reporting purposes where the nature of the products
    and services, the type of customer and the distribution of those
    products and services are similar. The reportable segments are
    Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate,
    Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail
    Banking. The Company’s international activities are
    discussed in note 17 of Notes to Financial Statements filed
    herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.”

The only activities that, as a class, contributed 10% or more of
    the sum of consolidated interest income and other income in any
    of the last three years were interest on loans and investment
    securities and fees for providing deposit account services. The
    amount of income from such sources during those years is set
    forth on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Income
    filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.”



Supervision
    and Regulation of the Company

M&T and its subsidiaries are subject to the extensive
    regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and
    their subsidiaries. Regulation of financial institutions such as
    M&T and its subsidiaries is intended primarily for the
    protection of depositors, the FDIC’s DIF and the banking
    system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the
    protection of stockholders, creditors or other investors.
    Described below are the material elements of selected laws and
    regulations applicable to M&T and its subsidiaries. The
    descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified
    in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes
    and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or
    regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies,
    cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the
    business and results of M&T and its subsidiaries.



Overview

M&T is registered with the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve Board System (the “Federal Reserve
    Board”) as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding
    Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”). As such,
    M&T and its subsidiaries are subject to the supervision,
    examination and reporting requirements of the BHCA and the
    regulations of the Federal Reserve Board.

In general, the BHCA limits the business of bank holding
    companies to banking, managing or controlling banks and other
    activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be
    so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident
    thereto. In addition, bank holding companies that qualify and
    elect to be financial holding companies may engage in any
    activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged
    in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or
    incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the
    Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the Secretary of the
    Treasury)







or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and does not
    pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of
    depository institutions or the financial system generally (as
    solely determined by the Federal Reserve Board), without prior
    approval of the Federal Reserve Board. Activities that are
    financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing,
    insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments.

In order to qualify and register with the Federal Reserve Board
    as a financial holding company, a bank holding company must
    demonstrate that each of its bank subsidiaries is “well
    capitalized,” “well managed,” and has at least a
    “satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment
    Act of 1977 (“CRA”). Beginning in July 2011, a bank
    holding company’s eligibility to elect financial holding
    company status will also depend upon the holding company being
    well-capitalized and well-managed. M&T filed a declaration
    to elect to become a financial holding company on
    January 26, 2011.



Recent
    Developments

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
    (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which was enacted in July
    2010, significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime
    in the United States, including through the creation of a new
    resolution authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity
    requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to
    regulatory agencies, and through numerous other provisions aimed
    at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services
    sector. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new systemic risk
    oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council
    (“FSOC”). The FSOC will oversee and coordinate the
    efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies
    (including the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the SEC) in
    establishing regulations to address financial stability
    concerns. The Dodd-Frank Act directs the FSOC to make
    recommendations to the Federal Reserve Board regarding
    supervisory requirements and prudential standards applicable to
    systemically important financial institutions which, based upon
    the proposed rule issued on February 8, 2011, is expected
    to include M&T, including capital, leverage, liquidity and
    risk-management requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that
    the requirements applicable to systemically important financial
    institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other
    financial companies.

In addition to the framework for systemic risk oversight
    implemented through the FSOC, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes
    heightened prudential requirements on bank holding companies
    with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets,
    such as M&T, and requires the Federal Reserve Board to
    establish prudential standards for such large bank holding
    companies that are more stringent than those applicable to other
    bank holding companies, including standards for risk-based
    capital requirements and leverage limits, liquidity,
    risk-management requirements, resolution plan and credit
    exposure reporting, and concentration. The Federal Reserve Board
    has discretionary authority to establish additional prudential
    standards, on its own or at the FSOC’s recommendation,
    regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures,
    short-term debt limits, and otherwise as it deems appropriate.
    The Dodd-Frank Act also







requires the Federal Reserve Board to conduct annual analyses of
    such bank holding companies to evaluate whether the companies
    have sufficient capital on a total consolidated basis necessary
    to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions.

Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act provides for the creation of
    the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”),
    a new consumer financial services regulator. The CFPB is
    directed to prevent unfair, deceptive and abusive practices and
    ensure that all consumers have access to markets for consumer
    financial products and services, and that such markets are fair,
    transparent and competitive. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the CFPB
    authority to enforce and issue rules and regulations
    implementing existing consumer protection laws and
    responsibility for all such existing regulations. Depository
    institutions with assets exceeding $10 billion, such as
    M&T Bank, their affiliates, and other “larger
    participants” in the markets for consumer financial
    services (as determined by the CFPB) will be subject to direct
    supervision by the CFPB, including any applicable examination,
    enforcement and reporting requirements the CFPB may establish.

New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and
    regulations (including changes in interpretation or enforcement)
    could materially adversely affect M&T’s financial
    condition or results of operations. As discussed further
    throughout this section, many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are
    subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several
    years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial
    impact on M&T and its subsidiaries or the financial
    services industry generally. In addition to the discussion in
    this section, see “Recent Legislative Developments” in
    Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” for a discussion of the potential impact
    legislative and regulatory reforms may have on our results of
    operations and financial condition.



Dividends

The Registrant is a legal entity separate and distinct from its
    banking and other subsidiaries. Historically, the majority of
    the Registrant’s revenue has been from dividends paid to
    the Registrant by its subsidiary banks. M&T Bank and
    M&T Bank, N.A. are subject, under one or more of the
    banking laws, to restrictions on the amount of dividend
    declarations. Future dividend payments to the Registrant by its
    subsidiary banks will be dependent on a number of factors,
    including the earnings and financial condition of each such
    bank, and are subject to the limitations referred to in
    note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in
    Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data,” and to other statutory powers of bank
    regulatory agencies.

An insured depository institution is prohibited from making any
    capital distribution to its owner, including any dividend, if,
    after making such distribution, the depository institution fails
    to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital
    measure, including the risk-based capital adequacy and leverage
    standards discussed herein.

As described herein under the heading “U.S. Treasury
    Capital Purchase Program”, in connection with the issuance
    of Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Department of
    the Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”), M&T is
    restricted from increasing its common stock dividend.



Supervision
    and Regulation of M&T Bank’s Subsidiaries

M&T Bank has a number of subsidiaries. These subsidiaries
    are subject to the laws and regulations of both the federal
    government and the various states in which they conduct
    business. For example, M&T Securities is regulated by the
    Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry
    Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators.



Capital
    Requirements

M&T and its subsidiary banks are required to comply with
    the applicable capital adequacy standards established by the
    Federal Reserve Board. There are two basic measures of capital
    adequacy for bank holding companies that have been promulgated
    by the Federal Reserve Board: a risk-based measure and a
    leverage measure.

Risk-based Capital Standards.The risk-based
    capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital
    requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market
    risk profiles among banks and







financial holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet
    exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid
    assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to broad
    risk categories, each with appropriate weights. The resulting
    capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total
    risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items.

The minimum guideline to be considered well-capitalized for
    Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital is 6.0% and 10.0%,
    respectively. At December 31, 2010, the Registrant’s
    consolidated Tier 1 Capital ratio was 9.47% and its Total
    Capital ratio was 13.08%. The elements currently comprising
    Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital and the minimum
    Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios may in the future
    be subject to change, as discussed in greater detail below.

Basel I and II Standards.

In July 2008, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies issued a
    proposed rule that would provide banking organizations that do
    not use the advanced approaches with the option to implement a
    new risk-based capital framework. This framework would adopt the
    standardized approach of Basel II for credit risk, the
    basic indicator approach of Basel II for operational risk,
    and related disclosure requirements. While this proposed rule
    generally parallels the relevant approaches under Basel II, it
    diverges where United States markets have unique characteristics
    and risk profiles, most notably with respect to risk weighting
    residential mortgage exposures. The proposed rule, if adopted,
    would replace the agencies’ earlier proposed amendments to
    existing risk-based capital guidelines to make them more risk
    sensitive (formerly referred to as the “Basel I-A”
    approach).







Leverage Requirements.Neither Basel I nor
    Basel II includes a leverage requirement as an
    international standard, however, the Federal Reserve Board has
    established minimum leverage ratio guidelines to be considered
    well-capitalized for bank holding companies. These guidelines
    provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 Capital to average
    total assets, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets
    (the “Leverage Ratio”), of 3.0% for bank holding
    companies that meet certain specified criteria, including having
    the highest regulatory rating. All other bank holding companies
    generally are required to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at least
    4%. M&T’s Leverage Ratio at December 31, 2010 was
    9.33%.

The guidelines also provide that bank holding companies
    experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be
    expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially
    above the minimum supervisory levels without significant
    reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve
    Board has indicated that it will consider a “tangible
    Tier 1 Capital leverage ratio” (deducting all
    intangibles) and other indicators of capital strength in
    evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.

Basel III Standards.In December 2010,
    the Basel Committee released its final framework for
    strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation,
    now officially identified by the Basel Committee as “Basel
    III.” Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. bank
    regulatory agencies and fully phased-in, will require bank
    holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain
    substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common
    equity. The Basel III final capital framework, among other
    things:

•introduces as a new capital measure “Common Equity
    Tier 1”,or “CET1”, specifies that
    Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional
    Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified
    requirements, defines CET1 narrowly by requiring that most
    deductions or adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made
    to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and expands
    the scope of the deductions or adjustments as compared to
    existing regulations;•when fully phased in on January 1, 2019, requires banks to
    maintain:

•as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of
    CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5%
    “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the
    4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively
    resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of
    at least 7%);•a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets
    of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is
    added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is
    phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1
    capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation);•a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus
    Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least
    8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to
    the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in,
    effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5%
    upon full implementation);•as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage
    ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to
    balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures
    (as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the
    quarter); and

•provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer”,
    generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that
    excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup
    of systemic risk, that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital
    conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully
    implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between
    2.5% and 5%).



The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses
    during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a
    ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but
    below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital
    conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the
    latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity
    repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the
    shortfall.

The implementation of the Basel III final framework will
    commence January 1, 2013. On that date, banking
    institutions will be required to meet the following minimum
    capital ratios before the application of any buffer:

•3.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;•4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and•8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.







The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new
    deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for
    example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights,
    deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and
    significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities
    be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category
    exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate
    exceed 15% of CET1.

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1
    will begin on January 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a
    five-year period (20% per year). The implementation of the
    capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016
    at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing
    by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it
    reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).

The U.S. banking agencies have indicated informally that
    they expect to propose regulations implementing Basel III
    in mid-2011 with final adoption of implementing regulations in
    mid-2012. Notwithstanding its release of the Basel III
    framework as a final framework, the Basel Committee is
    considering further amendments to Basel III, including the
    imposition of additional capital surcharges on globally
    systemically important financial institutions. In addition to
    Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act requires or permits the Federal
    banking agencies to adopt regulations affecting banking
    institutions’ capital requirements in a number of respects,
    including potentially more stringent capital requirements for
    systemically important financial institutions. Accordingly, the
    regulations ultimately applicable to M&T may be
    substantially different from the Basel III final framework
    as published in December 2010.

Liquidity Ratios under Basel
    III.

30-day

Capital Requirements of Subsidiary Depository
    Institutions.M&T Bank and M&T Bank,
    N.A. are subject to substantially similar capital requirements
    as those applicable to M&T. As of December 31, 2010,
    both M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. were in compliance
    with applicable minimum capital requirements. None of M&T,
    M&T Bank or M&T Bank, N.A. has been advised by any
    federal banking agency of any specific minimum capital ratio
    requirement applicable to it as of December 31, 2010.
    Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank to a
    variety of enforcement remedies, including the termination of
    deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on
    its business. See “Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA”
    below.

Given that the Basel III rules are subject to change and
    the scope and content of capital regulations that
    U.S. federal banking agencies may adopt under the
    Dodd-Frank Act is uncertain, M&T cannot be certain of the
    impact new capital regulations will have on its capital ratios
    or those of its bank subsidiaries.



Safety
    and Soundness Standards

Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies
    pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the
    “FDIA”), establish general standards relating to
    internal controls and information systems, internal audit
    systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate
    exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In
    general, these guidelines require, among other things,







appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the
    risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. Additionally,
    the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not
    require, an agency to order an institution that has been given
    notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety
    and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after
    being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable
    compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an
    acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order
    directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an
    order directing other actions of the types to which an
    undercapitalized institution is subject under the “prompt
    corrective action” provisions of the FDIA. See
    “Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA” below. If an
    institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may
    seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose
    civil money penalties.



Regulatory
    Remedies under the FDIA

The FDIA establishes a system of regulatory remedies to resolve
    the problems of undercapitalized institutions. The federal
    banking regulators have established five capital categories
    (“well-capitalized,” “adequately
    capitalized,” “undercapitalized,”
    “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically
    undercapitalized”) and must take certain mandatory
    supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other
    discretionary actions, with respect to institutions which are
    undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically
    undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and
    discretionary supervisory actions depend upon the capital
    category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject
    to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the banking regulator
    to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is
    critically undercapitalized. The federal bank regulatory
    agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital
    levels for each category:



“Well-Capitalized”“Adequately
    Capitalized”Leverage Ratio of 5%,Tier 1 Capital ratio of 6%,Total Capital ratio of 10%, andNot subject to a written agreement, order, capitaldirective or regulatory remedy directive requiringa specific capital level.Leverage Ratio of 4%,Tier 1 Capital ratio of 4%, andTotal Capital ratio of 8%.“Undercapitalized”“Significantly Undercapitalized”Leverage Ratio less than 4%,Tier 1 Capital ratio less than 4%, orTotal Capital ratio less than 8%.Leverage Ratio less than 3%,Tier 1 Capital ratio less than 3%, orTotal Capital ratio less than 6%.“Critically undercapitalized”Tangible equity to total assets less than 2%.





For purposes of these regulations, the term “tangible
    equity” includes core capital elements counted as
    Tier 1 Capital for purposes of the risk-based capital
    standards plus the amount of outstanding cumulative perpetual
    preferred stock (including related surplus), minus all
    intangible assets with certain exceptions. An institution that
    is classified as well-capitalized based on its capital levels
    may be classified as adequately capitalized, and an institution
    that is adequately capitalized or undercapitalized based upon
    its capital levels may be treated as though it were
    undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized,
    respectively, if the appropriate federal banking agency, after
    notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or
    unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such
    treatment.

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized,
    significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is
    required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its
    appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order
    for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the
    appropriate federal banking agency, a bank holding company must
    guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply
    with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain
    limitations. The bank holding company must also provide
    appropriate assurances of performance. The obligation of a
    controlling bank holding company under the FDIA to fund a
    capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5.0% of an







undercapitalized subsidiary’s assets or the amount required
    to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized
    institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its
    average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any
    branches or engaging in any new line of business, except in
    accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the
    approval of the FDIC. Institutions that are significantly
    undercapitalized or undercapitalized and either fail to submit
    an acceptable capital restoration plan or fail to implement an
    approved capital restoration plan may be subject to a number of
    requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell
    sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized,
    requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of
    deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized
    depository institutions failing to submit or implement an
    acceptable capital restoration plan are subject to appointment
    of a receiver or conservator.



Support
    of Subsidiary Banks

Under longstanding Federal Reserve Board policy which has been
    codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, M&T is expected to act as a
    source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to
    support, its subsidiary banks. This support may be required at
    times when M&T may not be inclined to provide it. In
    addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to a
    subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits
    and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In
    the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any
    commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank
    regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank
    will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a
    priority of payment.



Cross-Guarantee
    Provisions

Each insured depository institution “controlled” (as
    defined in the BHCA) by the same bank holding company can be
    held liable to the FDIC for any loss incurred, or reasonably
    expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of any
    other insured depository institution controlled by that holding
    company and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to any of
    those banks that is in danger of default. The FDIC’s claim
    under the cross-guarantee provisions is superior to claims of
    shareholders of the insured depository institution or its
    holding company and to most claims arising out of obligations or
    liabilities owed to affiliates of the institution, but is
    subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and
    holders of subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the
    commonly controlled insured depository institution. The FDIC may
    decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provisions if it
    determines that a waiver is in the best interest of the DIF.



Transactions
    with Affiliates







FDIC
    Insurance Assessments

Deposit Insurance Assessments.M&T Bank
    and M&T Bank, N.A. pay deposit insurance premiums to the
    FDIC based on an assessment rate established by the FDIC. FDIC
    assessment rates generally depend upon a combination of
    regulatory ratings and financial ratios. Regulatory ratings
    reflect the applicable bank regulatory agency’s evaluation
    of the financial institution’s capital, asset quality,
    management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity (or
    “CAMELS” ratings) to risk. The assessment rate for
    large institutions with long-term debt issuer ratings, such as
    M&T Bank, are currently determined using a combination of
    the institutions weighted-average regulatory ratings, its
    long-term debt issuer ratings and the institution’s
    financial ratios, each equally weighted. Assessment rates for
    institutions that are in the lowest risk category currently vary
    from seven to twenty-four basis points per $100 of insured
    deposits, and may be increased or decreased by the FDIC on a
    semi-annual basis. Such base assessment rates are subject to
    adjustments based upon the institution’s ratio of
    (i) long-term unsecured debt to its domestic deposits,
    (ii) secured liabilities to domestic deposits and
    (iii) brokered deposits to domestic deposits (if greater
    than 10%).

M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A.’s deposit insurance
    assessments are currently based on the total domestic deposits
    held by such insured depository institution. The Dodd-Frank Act
    requires the FDIC to amend its regulations to base insurance
    assessments on the average consolidated assets less the average
    tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the
    assessment period. Under the New Assessment Rule, which
    implements these requirements effective April 1, 2011,
    assessments paid by M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. are
    expected to increase in 2011.

On November 17, 2009, the FDIC implemented a final rule
    requiring insured institutions, such as M&T Bank and
    M&T Bank, N.A., to prepay their estimated quarterly
    risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for
    all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Such prepaid assessments were paid
    on December 30, 2009, along with each institution’s
    quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third
    quarter of 2009 (assuming 5% annual growth in deposits between
    the third quarter of 2009 and the end of 2012 and taking into
    account, for 2011 and 2012, the annualized three basis point
    increase discussed below). The remaining amount of prepaid
    insurance assessments at December 31, 2010 related to 2011
    and 2012 for M&T Bank was $178.5 million and for
    M&T Bank, N.A. was $2.5 million.

The FDIA establishes a minimum ratio of deposit insurance
    reserves to estimated insured deposits, the designated reserve
    ratio (the “DRR”), of 1.15% prior to September 2020
    and 1.35% thereafter. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC issued
    a final rule setting the DRR at 2%. Because the DRR fell below
    1.15% as of June 30, 2008, and was expected to remain below
    1.15% the FDIC was required to establish and implement a
    Restoration Plan that would restore the reserve ratio to at
    least 1.15% within five years. In October 2008, the FDIC adopted
    such a restoration plan (the “Restoration Plan”). In
    February 2009,







Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the
    FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe
    and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to
    continue operations, or has violated any applicable law,
    regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC.

FICO Assessments.In addition, the Deposit
    Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation
    (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF applicable
    deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond
    obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount
    assessed on individual institutions by FICO is in addition to
    the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the
    FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedules. FICO
    assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change
    in assessment base. M&T Bank recognized $5 million of
    expense related to its FICO assessments and M&T Bank, N.A.
    recognized $57 thousand of such expense in 2010.



Acquisitions

The BHCA requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior
    approval of the Federal Reserve Board before: (1) it may
    acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting
    shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after
    such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or
    indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the
    institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than
    a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of
    any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may
    merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company.
    Effective July 2011, financial holding companies and bank
    holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding
    $50 billion, such as M&T, must (i) obtain prior
    approval from the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring certain
    nonbank financial companies with assets exceeding
    $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to
    the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring direct or indirect
    ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having
    consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Bank holding
    companies seeking approval to complete an acquisition must be
    well-capitalized and well-managed effective July 2011.

The BHCA further provides that the Federal Reserve Board may not
    approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would
    be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize
    or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section
    of the United States, or the effect of which may be
    substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a
    monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other
    manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the
    anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly
    outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and
    needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve Board
    is also required to consider the financial and managerial
    resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and
    banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community
    to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally
    focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience
    and needs issues includes the parties’







performance under the CRA, both of which are discussed below. In
    addition, the Federal Reserve Board must take into account the
    institutions’ effectiveness in combating money laundering.



FDIC
    Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program

In October 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity
    Guarantee Program (“TLGP”), under which the FDIC would
    guarantee certain senior unsecured debt of FDIC-insured
    U.S. depository institutions and U.S. bank holding
    companies as well as non-interest bearing transaction account
    deposits at FDIC-insured U.S. depository institutions,
    unless such institutions opted out of the program. M&T
    participated in the Debt Guarantee Program through
    October 31, 2009. Although the guarantee of non-interest
    bearing transaction account deposits under the TLGP ended on
    June 30, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act extended this guarantee
    to all insured institutions, regardless of participation in the
    TLGP, until January 1, 2013.



U.S.
    Treasury Capital Purchase Program

Pursuant to the CPP, on December 23, 2008, M&T issued
    and sold to the U.S. Treasury in a private offering
    (i) $600 million of Series A Preferred Stock and
    (ii) a warrant to purchase 1,218,522 shares of
    M&T Common Stock at an exercise price of $73.86 per share,
    subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments. M&T
    elected to participate in the capital purchase program at an
    amount equal to approximately 1% of its risk-weighted assets at
    the time. In connection with its acquisition of Provident on
    May 23, 2009, M&T issued $152 million of
    Series C Preferred Stock in exchange for the securities
    issued by Provident to the U.S. Treasury on
    November 14, 2008, and assumed a warrant issued by
    Provident to the U.S. Treasury, which, on a converted
    basis, provides for the purchase of 407,542 shares of
    M&T Common Stock at $55.76 per share.

The securities purchase agreement, dated December 23, 2008,
    pursuant to which the securities issued to the
    U.S. Treasury under the CPP were sold, limits the payment
    of quarterly dividends on M&T’s common stock to $0.70
    per share without prior approval of the U.S. Treasury,
    limits M&T’s ability to repurchase shares of its
    common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase
    of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based
    compensation awards), grants the holders of the Series A
    Preferred Stock, the Warrant and the common stock of M&T to
    be issued under the warrant certain registration rights, and
    subjects M&T to certain of the executive compensation
    limitations included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act
    of 2008 (“EESA”), as amended by the American Recovery
    and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), described below
    under “Executive and Incentive Compensation”. The
    securities purchase agreement between Provident and the
    U.S. Treasury, to which M&T succeeded, has the same
    limitations and effects.



Depositor
    Preference

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for
    administrative expenses and employee compensation against an
    insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over
    other general unsecured claims against such an institution in
    the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an
    institution by any receiver. If an insured depository
    institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with
    the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured,
    non-deposit creditors, including depositors whose deposits are
    payable only outside of the United States and the parent bank
    holding company, with respect to any extensions of credit they
    have made to such insured depository institution.



Executive
    and Incentive Compensation

ARRA, an economic stimulus package signed into law on
    February 17, 2009, significantly expanded the restrictions
    on executive compensation that were included in Section 111
    of EESA and imposed various corporate governance standards on
    recipients of TARP funds, including under the
    U.S. Treasury’s capital purchase program, until such
    funds are repaid. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury
    issued the TARP Interim Final Rule to clarify and provide
    additional guidance with respect to the restrictions on
    executive compensation that apply to executives and certain
    other employees of TARP recipients that includes: (i) a
    prohibition on paying bonuses, retention awards and incentive
    compensation, other than long-term restricted stock or pursuant
    to certain preexisting employment contracts, to its Senior
    Executive Officers







The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators’
    policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop and
    are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be
    determined at this time whether compliance with such policies
    will adversely affect the ability of M&T and its
    subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees.



Orderly
    Liquidation Authority

The Dodd-Frank Act creates the Orderly Liquidation Authority
    (“OLA”), a resolution regime for systemically
    important non-bank financial companies, including bank holding
    companies, under which the FDIC may be appointed receiver to
    liquidate such a company if the company is in danger of default
    and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability.
    This determination must come after supermajority recommendations
    by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC and consultation
    between the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury and the
    President. This resolution authority is similar to the FDIC
    resolution model for depository institutions, with certain
    modifications to reflect differences between depository
    institutions and non-financial companies and to reduce
    disparities between the treatment of creditors’ claims
    under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in an orderly
    liquidation authority proceeding compared to those that would
    exist under the resolution model for insured depository
    institutions.







An Orderly Liquidation Fund will fund OLA liquidation
    proceedings through borrowings from the Treasury Department and
    risk-based assessments made, first, on entities that received
    more in the resolution than they would have received in
    liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if
    necessary, on bank holding companies with total consolidated
    assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T. If an
    orderly liquidation is triggered, M&T could face
    assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund.



Financial
    Privacy

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the
    ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose
    non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third
    parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy
    policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow
    consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information
    to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how
    consumer information is transmitted through diversified
    financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In
    addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain
    information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used
    to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that
    shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income
    information from applications. Consumers also have the option to
    direct banks and other financial institutions not to share
    information about transactions and experiences with affiliated
    companies for the purpose of marketing products or services.



Consumer
    Protection Laws

In connection with their respective lending and leasing
    activities, M&T Bank, certain of its subsidiaries, and
    M&T Bank, N.A. are each subject to a number of federal and
    state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to
    various sectors of the economy. These laws include the Equal
    Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair
    and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Truth in Lending Act,
    the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, and the Real Estate Settlement
    Procedures Act, and various state law counterparts.

In addition, federal law currently contains extensive customer
    privacy protection provisions. Under these provisions, a
    financial institution must provide to its customers, at the
    inception of the customer relationship and annually thereafter,
    the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the
    handling of customers’ nonpublic personal financial
    information. These provisions also provide that, except for
    certain limited exceptions, a financial institution may not
    provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties
    unless the institution discloses to the customer that such
    information may be so provided and the customer is given the
    opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it
    a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain
    or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature
    by fraudulent or deceptive means.

Effective July 1, 2010, a new federal banking rule under
    the Electronic Fund Transfer Act prohibits financial
    institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts
    on automated teller machines (“ATM”) and one-time
    debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in,
    to the overdraft service for those type of transactions. If a
    consumer does not opt in, any ATM transaction or debit that
    overdraws the consumer’s account will be denied. Overdrafts
    on the payment of checks and regular electronic bill payments
    are not covered by this new rule. Before opting in, the consumer
    must be provided a notice that explains the financial
    institution’s overdraft services, including the fees
    associated with the service, and the consumer’s choices.
    Financial institutions must provide consumers who do not opt in
    with the same account terms, conditions and features (including
    pricing) that they provide to consumers who do opt in.



Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented a broad range of
    corporate governance, accounting and reporting measures for
    companies that have securities registered under the Exchange
    Act, including publicly-held bank holding companies such as
    M&T. Specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the
    various regulations promulgated thereunder, established, among
    other things: (i) requirements for audit committees,
    including independence, expertise, and responsibilities;
    (ii) responsibilities regarding







financial statements for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer of the reporting company; (iii) the
    forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive-based compensation and
    profits from the sale of the reporting company’s securities
    by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer in
    the twelve-month period following the initial publication of any
    financial statements that later require restatement;
    (iv) the creation of an independent accounting oversight
    board; (v) standards for auditors and regulation of audits,
    including independence provisions that restrict non-audit
    services that accountants may provide to their audit clients;
    (vi) disclosure and reporting obligations for the reporting
    company and their directors and executive officers, including
    accelerated reporting of stock transactions and a prohibition on
    trading during pension blackout periods; (vii) a
    prohibition on personal loans to directors and officers, except
    certain loans made by insured financial institutions on
    nonpreferential terms and in compliance with other bank
    regulatory requirements; and (viii) a range of civil and
    criminal penalties for fraud and other violations of the
    securities laws.



Community
    Reinvestment Act



USA
    Patriot Act

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate
    Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001
    (the “USA Patriot Act”) imposes obligations on
    U.S. financial institutions, including banks and broker
    dealer subsidiaries, to implement and maintain appropriate
    policies, procedures and controls which are reasonably designed
    to prevent, detect and report instances of money laundering and
    the financing of terrorism and to verify the identity of their
    customers. In addition, provisions of the USA Patriot Act
    require the federal financial institution regulatory agencies to
    consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s
    anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and
    bank holding company acquisitions. Failure of a financial
    institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to
    combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have
    serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.
    The Registrant and its impacted subsidiaries have approved
    policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with
    the USA Patriot Act.



Office of
    Foreign Assets Control Regulation

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect
    transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and
    others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules
    based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury
    Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”).
    The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many
    different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of
    the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or
    investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions
    against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a
    sanctioned country and prohibitions on
    “U.S. persons” engaging in financial transactions
    relating to making investments in, or providing
    investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned
    country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the
    government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned
    country







have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject
    to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession
    or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g. property
    and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or
    transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure
    to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and
    reputational consequences.



Regulation
    of Insurers and Insurance Brokers

M&T’s operations in the areas of insurance brokerage
    and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to
    regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory
    authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of
    supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws
    generally grant broad discretion to regulatory authorities in
    adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. This
    supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance
    brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling of
    customer funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Certain of
    M&T’s insurance company subsidiaries are subject to
    extensive regulatory supervision and to insurance laws and
    regulations requiring, among other things, maintenance of
    capital, record keeping, reporting and examinations.



Governmental
    Policies

The earnings of the Company are significantly affected by the
    monetary and fiscal policies of governmental authorities,
    including the Federal Reserve Board. Among the instruments of
    monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement
    these objectives are open-market operations in
    U.S. Government securities and federal funds, changes in
    the discount rate on member bank borrowings and changes in
    reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These
    instruments of monetary policy are used in varying combinations
    to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and
    deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans and paid for
    deposits. The Federal Reserve Board frequently uses these
    instruments of monetary policy, especially its open-market
    operations and the discount rate, to influence the level of
    interest rates and to affect the strength of the economy, the
    level of inflation or the price of the dollar in foreign
    exchange markets. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve
    Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of
    banking institutions in the past and are expected to continue to
    do so in the future. It is not possible to predict the nature of
    future changes in monetary and fiscal policies, or the effect
    which they may have on the Company’s business and earnings.



Competition

The Company competes in offering commercial and personal
    financial services with other banking institutions and with
    firms in a number of other industries, such as thrift
    institutions, credit unions, personal loan companies, sales
    finance companies, leasing companies, securities firms and
    insurance companies. Furthermore, diversified financial services
    companies are able to offer a combination of these services to
    their customers on a nationwide basis. The Company’s
    operations are significantly impacted by state and federal
    regulations applicable to the banking industry. Moreover, the
    provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, the Interstate
    Banking Act and the Banking Law have allowed for increased
    competition among diversified financial services providers.



Other
    Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives

Proposals may be introduced in the United States Congress and
    state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such
    initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the
    powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or
    proposals to substantially change the financial institution
    regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking
    statutes and the operating environment of the Registrant in
    substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation
    could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or
    expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance
    among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other
    financial institutions. M&T cannot predict whether any such
    legislation will be enacted, and, if enacted, the effect that
    it, or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial
    condition or results of operations of the Registrant. A change
    in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to
    M&T or any of its subsidiaries could have a material effect
    on the business of the Registrant. See the section captioned
    “Recent Developments” included elsewhere in this item.







Other
    Information

Through a link on the Investor Relations section of
    M&T’s website at www.mtb.com, copies of
    M&T’s Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Qand Current Reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made
    available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable
    after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it
    to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of such
    reports and other information are also available at no charge to
    any person who requests them or at www.sec.gov. Such requests
    may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder
    Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor,
    Buffalo, NY14203-2399(Telephone:(716) 842-5138).



Corporate
    Governance

M&T’s Corporate Governance Standards and the following
    corporate governance documents are also available on
    M&T’s website at the Investor Relations link:
    Disclosure Policy; Executive Committee Charter; Nomination,
    Compensation and Governance Committee Charter; Audit and Risk
    Committee Charter; Financial Reporting and Disclosure Controls
    and Procedures Policy; Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior
    Financial Officers; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and
    Employee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing
    Matters. Copies of such governance documents are also available,
    free of charge, to any person who requests them. Such requests
    may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder
    Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor,
    Buffalo, NY14203-2399(Telephone:(716) 842-5138).







Statistical
    Disclosure Pursuant to Guide 3

See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere
    in this Annual Report onForm 10-K.Additional information is included in the following tables.



Table



SELECTED
    CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END BALANCES






(In thousands)



Interest-bearing deposits at banks$101,222$133,335$10,284$18,431$6,639

Federal funds sold25,00020,11921,34748,03819,458

Resell agreements——90,000—100,000

Trading account523,834386,984617,821281,244136,752

Investment securities

U.S. Treasury and federal agencies4,177,7834,006,9683,909,4933,540,6412,381,584

Obligations of states and political subdivisions251,544266,748135,585153,231130,207

Other2,721,2133,506,8933,874,1295,268,1264,739,807



Total investment securities7,150,5407,780,6097,919,2078,961,9987,251,598

Loans and leases

Commercial, financial, leasing, etc.13,645,60013,790,73714,563,09113,387,02611,896,556

Real estate — construction4,332,6184,726,5704,568,3684,190,0683,453,981

Real estate — mortgage22,854,16021,747,53319,224,00319,468,44917,940,083

Consumer11,483,56412,041,61711,004,27511,306,7199,916,334



Total loans and leases52,315,94252,306,45749,359,73748,352,26243,206,954

Unearned discount(325,560)(369,771)(359,274)(330,700)(259,657)



Loans and leases, net of unearned discount51,990,38251,936,68649,000,46348,021,56242,947,297

Allowance for credit losses(902,941)(878,022)(787,904)(759,439)(649,948)



Loans and leases, net51,087,44151,058,66448,212,55947,262,12342,297,349

Goodwill3,524,6253,524,6253,192,1283,196,4332,908,849

Core deposit and other intangible assets125,917182,418183,496248,556250,233

Real estate and other assets owned220,04994,60499,61740,17512,141

Total assets68,021,26368,880,39965,815,75764,875,63957,064,905







Noninterest-bearing deposits14,557,56813,794,6368,856,1148,131,6627,879,977

NOW accounts1,393,3491,396,4711,141,3081,190,161940,439

Savings deposits26,431,28123,676,79819,488,91815,419,35714,169,790

Time deposits5,817,1707,531,4959,046,93710,668,58111,490,629

Deposits at Cayman Islands office1,605,9161,050,4384,047,9865,856,4275,429,668



Total deposits49,805,28447,449,83842,581,26341,266,18839,910,503

Short-term borrowings947,4322,442,5823,009,7355,821,8973,094,214

Long-term borrowings7,840,15110,240,01612,075,14910,317,9456,890,741

Total liabilities59,663,56861,127,49259,031,02658,390,38350,783,810

Shareholders’ equity8,357,6957,752,9076,784,7316,485,2566,281,095





Table



SHAREHOLDERS,
    EMPLOYEES AND OFFICES



Number at Year-End20102009200820072006Shareholders12,77313,20711,19711,61110,084Employees13,36514,22613,62013,86913,352Offices778832725760736









Table



CONSOLIDATED
    EARNINGS






(In thousands)



Interest income

Loans and leases, including fees$2,394,082$2,326,748$2,825,587$3,155,967$2,927,411

Deposits at banks8834109300372

Federal funds sold42632548571,670

Resell agreements404661,81722,9783,927

Trading account6155341,4697442,446

Investment securities

Fully taxable324,695389,268438,409352,628363,401

Exempt from federal taxes9,8698,4849,94611,33914,866



Total interest income2,729,7952,725,1973,277,5913,544,8133,314,093



Interest expense

NOW accounts8501,1222,8944,6383,461

Savings deposits85,226112,550248,083250,313201,543

Time deposits100,241206,220330,389496,378551,514

Deposits at Cayman Islands office1,3682,39184,483207,990178,348

Short-term borrowings3,0067,129142,627274,079227,850

Long-term borrowings271,578340,037529,319461,178333,836



Total interest expense462,269669,4491,337,7951,694,5761,496,552



Net interest income2,267,5262,055,7481,939,7961,850,2371,817,541

Provision for credit losses368,000604,000412,000192,00080,000



Net interest income after provision for credit losses1,899,5261,451,7481,527,7961,658,2371,737,541



Other income

Mortgage banking revenues184,625207,561156,012111,893143,181

Service charges on deposit accounts478,133469,195430,532409,462380,950

Trust income122,613128,568156,149152,636140,781

Brokerage services income49,66957,61164,18659,53360,295

Trading account and foreign exchange gains27,28623,12517,63030,27124,761

Gain on bank investment securities2,7701,16534,4711,2042,566

Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment (“OTTI”) losses(115,947)(264,363)(182,222)(127,300)—

Portion of OTTI losses recognized in other comprehensive income
    (before taxes)29,666126,066———



Net OTTI losses recognized in earnings(86,281)(138,297)(182,222)(127,300)—

Equity in earnings of Bayview Lending Group LLC(25,768)(25,898)(37,453)8,935—

Other revenues from operations355,053325,076299,674286,355293,318



Total other income1,108,1001,048,106938,979932,9891,045,852



Other expense

Salaries and employee benefits999,7091,001,873957,086908,315873,353

Equipment and net occupancy216,064211,391188,845169,050168,776

Printing, postage and supplies33,84738,21635,86035,76533,956

Amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets58,10364,25566,64666,48663,008

FDIC assessments79,32496,5196,6894,2034,505

Other costs of operations527,790568,309471,870443,870408,153



Total other expense1,914,8371,980,5631,726,9961,627,6891,551,751



Income before income taxes1,092,789519,291739,779963,5371,231,642

Income taxes356,628139,400183,892309,278392,453



Net income$736,161$379,891$555,887$654,259$839,189



Dividends declared

Common$335,502$326,617$308,501$281,900$249,817

Preferred40,22531,946———









Table



COMMON
    SHAREHOLDER DATA



20102009200820072006Per shareNet incomeBasic$5.72$2.90$5.04$6.05$7.55Diluted5.692.895.015.957.37Cash dividends declared2.802.802.802.602.25Common shareholders’ equity at year-end63.5459.3156.2958.9956.94Tangible common shareholders’ equity at year-end33.2628.2725.9427.9828.57Dividend payout ratio48.98%97.36%55.62%43.12%29.79%





Table



CHANGES
    IN INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE(a)



2010 Compared with 20092009 Compared with 2008Resulting fromResulting fromTotalChanges in:TotalChanges in:ChangeVolumeRateChangeVolumeRate(Increase (decrease) in thousands)Interest incomeLoans and leases, including fees$68,68716,04652,641$(498,433)118,677(617,110)Deposits at banks544212(75)103(178)Federal funds sold and agreements to resell securities317348(31)(1,942)(729)(1,213)Trading account1495693(906)127(1,033)Investment securitiesU.S. Treasury and federal agencies9,51430,242(20,728)1,0653,008(1,943)Obligations of states and political subdivisions1,9642,584(620)3,9005,179(1,279)Other(73,893)(47,671)(26,222)(56,035)(35,242)(20,793)Total interest income$6,792$(552,426)Interest expenseInterest-bearing depositsNOW accounts$(272)119(391)$(1,772)220(1,992)Savings deposits(27,324)14,209(41,533)(135,533)52,405(187,938)Time deposits(105,979)(44,066)(61,913)(124,169)(25,770)(98,399)Deposits at Cayman Islands office(1,023)(1,023)—(82,092)(31,707)(50,385)Short-term borrowings(4,123)(2,151)(1,972)(135,498)(49,651)(85,847)Long-term borrowings(68,459)(56,729)(11,730)(189,282)(22,502)(166,780)Total interest expense$(207,180)$(668,346)









(a)Interest income data are on a
    taxable-equivalent basis. The apportionment of changes resulting
    from the combined effect of both volume and rate was based on
    the separately determined volume and rate changes.



