Item 1. Business.

M&T Bank Corporation (“Registrant” or “M&T”) is a New York business corporation which is registered as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”) and as a bank holding company (“BHC”) under Article III-A of the New York Banking Law (“Banking Law”). The principal executive offices of M&T are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. M&T was incorporated in November 1969. M&T and its direct and indirect subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company.” As of December 31, 2018 the Company had consolidated total assets of $120.1 billion, deposits of $90.2 billion and shareholders’ equity of $15.5 billion. The Company had 16,413 full-time and 854 part-time employees as of December 31, 2018.

At December 31, 2018, M&T had two wholly owned bank subsidiaries: Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company (“M&T Bank”) and Wilmington Trust, National Association (“Wilmington Trust, N.A.”). The banks collectively offer a wide range of retail and commercial banking, trust and wealth management, and investment services to their customers. At December 31, 2018, M&T Bank represented 99% of consolidated assets of the Company.

The Company from time to time considers acquiring banks, thrift institutions, branch offices of banks or thrift institutions, or other businesses within markets currently served by the Company or in other locations that would complement the Company’s business or its geographic reach. The Company has pursued acquisition opportunities in the past, continues to review different opportunities, including the possibility of major acquisitions, and intends to continue this practice.

Subsidiaries




Wilmington Trust, N.A., a national banking association and a member of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC, commenced operations on October 2, 1995. The deposit liabilities of Wilmington Trust, N.A. are insured by the FDIC through the DIF. The main office of Wilmington Trust, N.A. is located at 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890. Wilmington Trust, N.A. offers various trust and wealth management services. Wilmington Trust, N.A. offered selected deposit and loan products on a nationwide basis, through telephone, Internet and direct mail marketing techniques. As of December 31, 2018, Wilmington Trust, N.A. had total assets of $4.3 billion, deposits of $3.7 billion and shareholder’s equity of $585 million.

Wilmington Trust Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Delaware bank and trust company in March 1901 and amended its charter in July 2011 to become a nondepository trust company. Wilmington Trust Company provides a variety of Delaware based trust, fiduciary and custodial services to its clients. As of December 31, 2018, Wilmington Trust Company had total assets of $1.1 billion and shareholder’s equity of $599 million. Revenues of Wilmington Trust Company were $138 million in 2018. The headquarters of Wilmington Trust Company are located at 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890.

M&T Insurance Agency, Inc. (“M&T Insurance Agency”), a wholly owned insurance agency subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a New York corporation in March 1955. M&T Insurance Agency provides insurance agency services principally to the commercial market. As of December 31, 2018, M&T Insurance Agency had assets of $44 million and shareholder’s equity of $24 million. M&T Insurance Agency recorded revenues of $36 million during 2018. The headquarters of M&T Insurance Agency are located at 285 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, New York 14202.

M&T Real Estate Trust (“M&T Real Estate”) is a Maryland Real Estate Investment Trust that traces its origin to the incorporation of M&T Real Estate, Inc. in July 1995. M&T Real Estate engages in commercial real estate lending and provides loan servicing to M&T Bank. As of December 31, 2018, M&T Real Estate had assets of $25.9 billion, common shareholder’s equity of $25.1 billion, and preferred shareholders’ equity, consisting of 9% fixed rate preferred stock (par value $1,000), of $1 million. All of the outstanding common stock and 89% of the preferred stock of M&T Real Estate is owned by M&T Bank. The remaining 11% of M&T Real Estate’s outstanding preferred stock is owned by officers or former officers of the Company. M&T Real Estate recorded $1.2 billion of revenue in 2018. The headquarters of M&T Real Estate are located at M&T Center, One Fountain Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203.

M&T Realty Capital Corporation (“M&T Realty Capital”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Maryland corporation in October 1973. M&T Realty Capital engages in multifamily commercial real estate lending and provides loan servicing to purchasers of the loans it originates. As of December 31, 2018, M&T Realty Capital serviced or sub-serviced $18.2 billion of commercial mortgage loans for non-affiliates and had assets of $1.1 billion and shareholder’s equity of $176 million. M&T Realty Capital recorded revenues of $157 million in 2018. The headquarters of M&T Realty Capital are located at One Light Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.

M&T Securities, Inc. (“M&T Securities”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank that was incorporated as a New York business corporation in November 1985. M&T Securities is registered as a broker/dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Advisors Act”). M&T Securities is licensed as a life insurance agent in each state where M&T Bank operates branch offices and in a number of other states. It provides securities brokerage, investment advisory and insurance services. As of December 31, 2018, M&T Securities had assets of $49 million and shareholder’s equity of $36 million. M&T Securities recorded $93 million of revenue during 2018. The headquarters of M&T Securities are located at 285 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, New York 14202.




Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, Inc. (“WT Investment Advisors”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Maryland corporation on June 30, 1995. WT Investment Advisors, a registered investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act, serves as an investment advisor to the Wilmington Funds, a family of proprietary mutual funds, and institutional clients. As of December 31, 2018, WT Investment Advisors had assets of $52 million and shareholder’s equity of $45 million. WT Investment Advisors recorded revenues of $40 million in 2018. The headquarters of WT Investment Advisors are located at 100 East Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.

Wilmington Funds Management Corporation (“Wilmington Funds Management”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T that was incorporated in September 1981 as a Delaware corporation. Wilmington Funds Management is registered as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act and serves as an investment advisor to the Wilmington Funds. Wilmington Funds Management had assets and shareholder’s equity of $50 million as of December 31, 2018. Wilmington Funds Management recorded revenues of $23 million in 2018. The headquarters of Wilmington Funds Management are located at 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890.

Wilmington Trust Investment Management, LLC (“WTIM”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T and was incorporated in December 2001 as a Georgia limited liability company. WTIM is a registered investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act and provides investment management services to clients, including certain private funds. As of December 31, 2018, WTIM has assets and shareholder’s equity of $24 million. WTIM recorded revenues of $1 million in 2018. WTIM’s headquarters is located at Terminus 27thFloor, 3280 Peachtree Road N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30305.

The Registrant and its banking subsidiaries have a number of other special-purpose or inactive subsidiaries. These other subsidiaries did not represent, individually and collectively, a significant portion of the Company’s consolidated assets, net income and shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2018.

Segment Information, Principal Products/Services and Foreign Operations

Information about the Registrant’s business segments is included in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and is further discussed in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Registrant’s reportable segments have been determined based upon its internal profitability reporting system, which is organized by strategic business unit. Certain strategic business units have been combined for segment information reporting purposes where the nature of the products and services, the type of customer and the distribution of those products and services are similar. The reportable segments are Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail Banking. The Company’s international activities are discussed in note 17 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

The only activity that, as a class, contributed 10% or more of the sum of consolidated interest income and other income in any of the last three years was interest on loans. The amount of income from such sources during those years is set forth on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Income filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Supervision and Regulation of the Company

M&T and its subsidiaries are subject to the comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to bank and financial holding companies and their subsidiaries. Regulation of financial institutions such as M&T and its subsidiaries is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC’s DIF and




the banking and financial system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of shareholders, investors or creditors other than insured depositors.

Proposals to change the applicable regulatory framework may be introduced in the United States Congress and state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to M&T or any of its subsidiaries could have a material effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company.

Described hereafter are material elements of the significant federal and state laws and regulations applicable to M&T and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described and do not include any potential or proposed changes in current laws or regulations.

Overview

M&T Bank is a New York chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve. As a result, it is subject to extensive regulation, examination and oversight by the NYSDFS and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. New York laws and regulations govern many aspects of M&T Bank’s operations, including branching, dividends, subsidiary activities, fiduciary activities, lending, and deposit taking. M&T Bank is also subject to Federal Reserve regulations and guidance, including with respect to capital levels. Its deposits are insured by the FDIC to $250,000 per depositor, which also exercises regulatory oversight over certain aspects of M&T Bank’s operations. Certain subsidiaries of M&T Bank are subject to regulation by other federal and state regulators as well. For example, M&T Securities is regulated by the SEC, FINRA, SIPC, and state securities regulators, and WT Investment Advisors is also subject to SEC regulation.

Wilmington Trust, N.A. is a national bank with operations that include fiduciary and related activities with limited lending and deposit business. It is subject to extensive regulation, examination




and oversight by the OCC which governs many aspects of its operations, including fiduciary activities, capital levels, office locations, dividends and subsidiary activities. Its deposits are insured by the FDIC to $250,000 per depositor, which also exercises regulatory oversight over certain aspects of the operations of Wilmington Trust, N.A.

Enhanced Prudential Standards




The Federal Reserve staff indicated in connection with the Tailoring NPRs the firms that would fall into each of the four Categories based on data for the second quarter of 2018.  According to the Federal Reserve’s projections, M&T would be a “Category IV” firm under each of the Tailoring NPRs, and would generally be subject to the same capital and liquidity requirements as firms with less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, but would also be required to monitor and report certain risk-based indicators.  Accordingly, under the Tailoring NPRs, Category IV firms would, among other things, (1) no longer be subject to any Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) or Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”) requirement (if and when implemented), (2) remain eligible to opt-out of the requirement to recognize most elements of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in regulatory capital, (3) no longer be subject to company-run stress testing requirements and (4) be subject to supervisory stress testing on a biennial basis rather than an annual basis.  Category IV firms would continue not to be subject to (1) advanced approaches capital requirements, (2) the supplementary leverage ratio and (3) the countercyclical capital buffer.  The Tailoring NPRs are subject to modification through the federal rulemaking process in accordance with the Administrative Procedures Act.  Other elements of the Tailoring NPRs are discussed in further detail throughout this section.

The ultimate benefits or consequences of EGRRCPA and the Tailoring NPRs on M&T, M&T Bank, Wilmington Trust, N.A. and their respective subsidiaries and activities will be subject to the final form of the Tailoring NPRs and additional rulemakings issued by the Federal Reserve and other federal regulators. M&T cannot predict future changes in the applicable laws, regulations and regulatory agency policies, yet such changes may have a material impact on M&T’s business, financial condition or results of operations. M&T will continue to evaluate the impact of any changes in law and any new regulations promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others.

Permissible Activities under the BHC Act

In general, the BHCA limits the business of a BHC to banking, managing or controlling banks, and other activities that the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, bank holding companies are expected to serve as a managerial and financial source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions, including committing resources to support such subsidiaries. This support may be required at times when M&T may not be inclined or able to provide it. In addition, any capital loans by a BHC to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a BHC’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

Bank holding companies that qualify and elect to be financial holding companies may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve, by regulation or order, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and merchant banking. In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity or to acquire a company engaged in any activity pursuant to the financial holding company provisions of the BHCA, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have at least a “satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977




(the “CRA”). See the section captioned “Community Reinvestment Act” included elsewhere in this discussion.

M&T elected to become a financial holding company on March 1, 2011. To maintain financial holding company status, a financial holding company and all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” The failure to meet such requirements could result in material restrictions on the activities of M&T and may also adversely affect the Company’s ability to enter into certain transactions or obtain necessary approvals in connection therewith, as well as loss of financial holding company status.

Distributions

M&T is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Historically, the majority of M&T’s revenue has been from dividends paid to M&T by its subsidiary banks. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. are subject to laws and regulations imposing restrictions on the amount of dividends they may declare and pay. Future dividend payments to M&T by its subsidiary banks will be dependent on a number of factors, including the earnings and financial condition of each such bank, and are subject to the limitations referred to in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and to other statutory powers of bank regulatory agencies.

An insured depository institution is prohibited from making any capital distribution to its owner, including any dividend, if, after making such distribution, the depository institution fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure, including the risk-based capital adequacy and leverage standards discussed herein.

Dividend payments by M&T to its shareholders and common stock repurchases by M&T are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. As described below in this section under “Stress Testing and Capital Plan Review,” dividends and common stock repurchases (net of any new stock issuances as per a capital plan) generally may only be paid or made under a capital plan as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected.

Capital Requirements

M&T and its subsidiary banks are required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the federal banking agencies (the “Capital Rules”), which are based on the Basel Committee’s December 2010 final capital framework for strengthening international capital standards, referred to as “Basel III”.

Among other matters, the Capital Rules impose a capital measure called Common Equity Tier 1 Capital (“CET1”) to which most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures must be made.  In addition, the Capital Rules specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting certain specified requirements. Pursuant to the Capital Rules, the minimum capital ratios are as follows:

•4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;

•6.0% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets;

•8.0% Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and

•4.0% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets as reported on consolidated financial statements (known as the “leverage ratio”).



In calculating regulatory capital ratios M&T must assign risk weights to the Company’s assets and off-balance sheet items. M&T has an ongoing process to review data elements associated with certain assets that from time to time may affect how specific assets are classified and could lead to increases or decreases of the regulatory risk weights assigned to such assets.






CET1 consists of common stock instruments that meet the eligibility criteria in the Capital Rules, including common stock and related surplus, net of treasury stock, retained earnings, certain minority interests and, for certain firms, accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”). As permitted under the Capital Rules, M&T made a one-time permanent election to neutralize certain AOCI components, with the result that those components are not recognized in M&T’s CET1. The Capital Rules also preclude certain hybrid securities, such as trust preferred securities, from inclusion in bank holding companies’ Tier 1 capital. Thus, trust preferred securities no longer included in M&T’s Tier 1 capital may nonetheless be included as a component of Tier 2 capital on a permanent basis and irrespective of whether such securities otherwise meet the revised definition of Tier 2 capital set forth in the Capital Rules. M&T’s regulatory capital ratios are presented in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

The Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets, and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1. The deductions and other adjustments to CET1 capital generally became fully phased-in on January 1, 2018, although, as discussed below, the federal banking regulators have extended the transitional treatment for certain items.

In September 2017, the U.S. banking regulators proposed to revise and simplify the deductions for these items for banking organizations, such as M&T, that are not subject to the “advanced approaches” under the Capital Rules. In November 2017, the U.S. banking regulators revised the Capital Rules to extend the current transitional treatment of the deductions described above for non-advanced approaches banking organizations until the September 2017 proposal is finalized.

In December 2017, the Basel Committee published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms (the standards are commonly referred to as “Basel IV”). Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee’s standardized approach for credit risk (including by recalibrating risk weights and introducing new capital requirements for certain “unconditionally cancellable commitments,” such as unused credit card lines of credit) and provides a new standardized approach for operational risk capital.  Under the Basel framework, these standards will generally be effective on January 1, 2022, with an aggregate output floor phasing in through January 1, 2027. Under the current U.S. capital rules, operational risk capital requirements




and a capital floor apply only to advanced approaches institutions, and not to the Company. The impact of Basel IV will depend on the manner in which it is implemented by the U.S. banking regulators.

Stress Testing and Capital Plan Review

The Federal Reserve may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered BHC will maintain sufficient regulatory capital ratios on a pro forma basis under expected and




stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon covered by the capital plan. The rules also provide that a covered BHC may not make a capital distribution unless after giving effect to the distribution it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios. The Federal Reserve also incorporates an assessment of the qualitative aspects of the firm’s capital planning process into regular, ongoing supervisory activities and through targeted, horizontal assessments of particular aspects of capital planning. M&T’s annual CCAR capital plan is currently due in April each year and the Federal Reserve publishes the results of its supervisory CCAR review of M&T’s capital plan by June 30 of each year.

In addition to other limitations, M&T’s ability to make any capital distributions is contingent on the Federal Reserve’s non-objection to M&T’s capital plan. The Federal Reserve generally limits a BHC’s ability to make quarterly capital distributions – that is, dividends and share repurchases, if the amount of the BHC’s actual cumulative quarterly capital issuances of instruments that qualify as regulatory capital are less than the BHC had indicated in its submitted capital plan as to which it received a non-objection from the Federal Reserve.

As noted above, on April 10, 2018, the Federal Reserve issued a proposal designed to create a single, integrated capital requirement by combining the quantitative assessment of CCAR with the CCB requirement.  If adopted, the proposal would replace the current static 2.5% CCB with a stress capital buffer (“SCB”) requirement. The SCB, subject to a minimum of 2.5%, would reflect stressed losses in the supervisory severely adverse scenario of the Federal Reserve’s supervisory stress tests and would also include four quarters of planned common stock dividends.  The proposal would also introduce a stress leverage buffer (“SLB”) requirement, similar to the SCB, which would apply to the Tier 1 leverage ratio.  In addition, the proposal would eliminate the quantitative objection provisions of CCAR but would require a BHC to reduce its planned capital distributions if those distributions would not be consistent with the applicable capital buffer constraints based on the BHC’s own baseline scenario projections.  The Federal Reserve has stated that it intends to propose revisions to the stress buffer requirements that would be applicable to Category IV BHC to align with the proposed two-year supervisory stress testing cycle for Category IV BHC.

Liquidity






under EGRRCPA, currently applies in a modified, less stringent, form to bank holding companies, such as M&T, having $100 billion or more but less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets and less than $10 billion in total on-balance sheet foreign exposure. As of January 1, 2017, the Final LCR Rule has been fully phased-in, and M&T has been required to publicly disclose its LCR since October 2018.  As noted above, under the Tailoring NPRs, Category IV firms, including M&T, would no longer be subject to any LCR requirement.

The Basel III framework also included a second standard, referred to as the NSFR, which is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. In May 2016, the Federal Reserve and other federal banking regulators issued a proposed rule that would implement the NSFR for large U.S. banking organizations.  Under the proposed rule, the most stringent requirements would apply to bank holding companies with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure, and would require such organizations to maintain a minimum NSFR of 1.0 on an ongoing basis, calculated by dividing the organization’s available stable funding by its required stable funding.  Bank holding companies with less than $250 billion, but more than $50 billion, in total consolidated assets and less than $10 billion in on-balance sheet foreign exposure, such as M&T, would be subject to a modified NSFR requirement. Originally proposed to take effect in January 2018, the rule has yet to be finalized. As noted above, under the Tailoring NPRs, Category IV firms, including M&T, would no longer be subject to any NSFR requirement.

Under the Tailoring NPRs, Category IV firms, including M&T, would remain subject to liquidity risk management requirements, but these requirements would be tailored such that these firms would be required to: (i) calculate collateral positions monthly, as opposed to weekly as is currently required; (ii) establish a more limited set of liquidity risk limits than are currently required; and (iii) monitor fewer elements of intraday liquidity risk exposures than are currently monitored. These firms would also be subject to liquidity stress testing quarterly, rather than monthly, and would be required to report liquidity data on the FR 2052a on a monthly basis. The liquidity buffer requirements for these firms would not change.

Cross Guaranty Provision

The cross guaranty provisions in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) were enacted by Congress in the Financial Institutions, Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”) and require each insured depository institution owned by the same BHC to be financially responsible for the failure or resolution costs of any affiliated insured institution. Generally, the amount of the cross guaranty liability is equal to the estimated loss to the DIF for the resolution of the affiliated institution(s) in default. The FDIC’s claim under the cross guaranty provision is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or its BHC and to most claims arising out of obligations or liabilities owed to affiliates of the institution, but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured depository institution. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross guaranty provision if it determines that a waiver is in the best interest of the DIF.

Volcker Rule

On December 10, 2013, the federal banking regulators and the SEC adopted the so-called Volcker Rule to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act limiting proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring certain hedge funds and private equity funds (defined as “covered funds” in the Volcker Rule). The Company does not engage in any significant amount of proprietary trading as defined in the Volcker Rule and implemented the required procedures for those areas in which trading does occur. The covered funds limits are imposed through a conformance period that ended






in July 2017. During 2016, to comply with requirements of the Volcker Rule, the Company sold the collateralized debt obligations that had been held in the available-for-sale investment securities portfolio.  Further, the Company sought, and received, from the Federal Reserve, a five-year extension (to July 21, 2022) to either divest or terminate its investment in one venture capital fund. In July 2018, the Federal Reserve, OCC, FDIC, CFTC and SEC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking intended to tailor the application of the Volcker Rule based on the size and scope of a banking entity’s trading activities and to clarify and amend certain definitions, requirements and exemptions. The ultimate impact of any amendments to the Volcker Rule will depend on, among other things, further rulemaking and implementation guidance from the relevant U.S. federal regulatory agencies and the development of market practices and standards.

Safety and Soundness Standards

Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies pursuant to the FDIA establish general standards relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. Additionally, the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties.

Limits on Undercapitalized Depository Institutions

The FDIA’s prompt corrective action provisions only apply to depository institutions and not to bank holding companies. The Federal Reserve’s regulations applicable to bank holding companies separately define “well capitalized.”  A financial holding company that is not well-capitalized and well-managed (or whose bank subsidiaries are not well capitalized and well managed) under applicable prompt corrective action standards may be restricted in certain of its activities and ultimately may lose financial holding company status.

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a BHC must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The BHC must also




provide appropriate assurances of performance.  An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than prevailing market rates, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the approval of the FDIC. Institutions that are significantly undercapitalized or undercapitalized and either fail to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fail to implement an approved capital restoration plan may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions failing to submit or implement an acceptable capital restoration plan are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator.

Transactions with Affiliates

FDIC Insurance Assessments

Deposit Insurance Assessments. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. deposits are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the limits set forth under applicable law.  The FDIC imposes a risk-based premium assessment system that determines assessment rates for financial institutions.  Deposit insurance assessments are based on average total assets minus average tangible equity. For larger institutions, such as M&T Bank, the FDIC uses a performance score and a loss-severity score that are used to calculate an initial assessment rate. In calculating these scores, the FDIC uses a bank’s capital level and supervisory ratings and certain financial measures to assess an institution’s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the calculations.  Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly.

In March 2016, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposes a surcharge of 4.5 cents per $100 of assessment base, after making certain adjustments, for depository institutions with total assets of at least $10 billion, including M&T Bank. The surcharge became effective July 1, 2016 and continued through September 30, 2018, when the reserve ratio of the DIF first reached 1.36%, exceeding the statutorily required minimum of 1.35%.  Because the statutory minimum was reached, the surcharge no longer applies.  M&T Bank recognized $64 million of expense related to its FDIC assessment and large bank surcharge and Wilmington Trust, N.A. recognized $493 thousand of FDIC insurance




expense in 2018. Beginning in 2018, amounts paid for FDIC deposit insurance are no longer deductible for purposes of determining federal taxable income.

Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC.

FICO Assessments. In addition, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF applicable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO is in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedules. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. M&T Bank recognized $4 million of expense related to its FICO assessments and Wilmington Trust, N.A. recognized $60 thousand of such expense in 2018.

Acquisitions

The BHCA requires every BHC to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings institution, if after such acquisition, the BHC will directly or indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings institution; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other BHC. Since July 2011, financial holding companies and bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion, such as M&T, have been required to (i) obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain nonbank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. EGRRCPA amended this requirement to apply only to bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $250 billion, effective November 24, 2019.

The BHCA further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues includes the parties’ performance under the CRA and compliance with consumer protection laws. The Federal Reserve must take into account the institutions’ effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the BHCA was amended to require the Federal Reserve, when evaluating a proposed transaction, to consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system.

Executive and Incentive Compensation

Guidelines adopted by several federal banking agencies prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as “excessive” when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee,




In October 2016, the NYSDFS issued guidance emphasizing that its regulated banking institutions, including M&T Bank, must ensure that any incentive compensation arrangements tied to employee performance indicators are subject to effective risk management, oversight and control.

The scope and content of the banking regulators’ policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of M&T and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees.

Resolution Planning

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by EGRRCPA, bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, such as M&T, are currently required to report periodically to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan for their rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. M&T’s resolution plan must, among




The FDIC has separately implemented a resolution planning rule that currently requires insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total assets, such as M&T Bank, to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the institution’s failure.  M&T Bank submitted its most recent resolution plan to the FDIC in June 2018. In August 2018, the FDIC announced that it has extended the next filing due date for insured depository institution resolution plan submissions to no sooner than July 1, 2020.

Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding Company

If the FDIC is appointed as conservator or receiver for an insured depository institution such as M&T Bank or Wilmington Trust, N.A., upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power:

•to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor, including a newly formed “bridge” bank without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors;

•to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms without regard to any provisions triggered by the appointment of the FDIC in that capacity; or

•to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution.

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of M&T Bank or Wilmington Trust, N.A., the debt holders would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors of the bank. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new resolution regime (known as “orderly liquidation authority”) for systemically important financial companies, including bank holding companies and their affiliates. Under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver for the systemically important institution, and its




failed subsidiaries, for purposes of liquidating the entity if, among other conditions, it is determined at the time of the institution’s failure that it is in default or in danger of default and the failure poses a risk to the stability of the U.S. financial system.

If the FDIC is appointed as receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, then the powers of the receiver, and the rights and obligations of creditors and other parties who have dealt with the institution, would be determined under the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, and not under the insolvency law that would otherwise apply. The powers of the receiver under the orderly liquidation authority were based on the powers of the FDIC as receiver for depository institutions under the FDIA. However, the provisions governing the rights of creditors under the orderly liquidation authority were modified in certain respects to reduce disparities with the treatment of creditors’ claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as compared to the treatment of those claims under the new authority. Nonetheless, substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist as between these two regimes, including the right of the FDIC to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors’ claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to transfer claims to a “bridge” entity.

An orderly liquidation fund will fund such liquidation proceedings through borrowings from the Treasury Department and risk-based assessments made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T. If an orderly liquidation is triggered, M&T could face assessments for the orderly liquidation fund.

The FDIC has developed a strategy under the orderly liquidation authority referred to as the “single point of entry” strategy, under which the FDIC would resolve a failed financial holding company by transferring its assets (including shares of its operating subsidiaries) and, potentially, very limited liabilities to a “bridge” holding company; utilize the resources of the failed financial holding company to recapitalize the operating subsidiaries; and satisfy the claims of unsecured creditors of the failed financial holding company and other claimants in the receivership by delivering securities of one or more new financial companies that would emerge from the bridge holding company. Under this strategy, management of the failed financial holding company would be replaced and shareholders and creditors of the failed financial holding company would bear the losses resulting from the failure.

Depositor Preference

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including depositors whose deposits are payable only outside of the United States and the parent BHC, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution.

Financial Privacy and Cyber Security

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a




product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means.

In October 2016, the federal banking regulators jointly issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking on enhanced cyber risk management standards that are intended to increase the operational resilience of large and interconnected entities under their supervision. If established, the enhanced cyber risk management standards would be designed to help reduce the potential impact of a cyber-attack or other cyber-related failure on the financial system. The advance notice of proposed rulemaking addresses five categories of cyber standards: (1) cyber risk governance; (2) cyber risk management; (3) internal dependency management; (4) external dependency management; and (5) incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness.

In March 2017, the NYSDFS implemented regulations requiring financial institutions regulated by the NYSDFS, including M&T Bank, to, among other things, (i) establish and maintain a cyber security program designed to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of their information systems; (ii) implement and maintain a written cyber security policy setting forth policies and procedures for the protection of their information systems and nonpublic information; and (iii) designate a Chief Information Security Officer.  M&T Bank is in full compliance with these requirements.

Many state regulators have been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations, including implementing or modifying their data breach notification and data privacy requirements.

Consumer Protection Laws and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Supervision

In connection with their respective lending and leasing activities, M&T Bank, Wilmington Trust, N.A. and certain of their subsidiaries, are each subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy. Such laws include: the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, and various state law counterparts. Furthermore, the CFPB has issued integrated disclosure requirements under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act that relate to the provision of disclosures to borrowers. There are also consumer protection laws governing deposit taking activities (e.g. Truth in Savings Act), as well securities and insurance laws governing certain aspects of the Company’s consolidated operations.

The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce most federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, including M&T Bank.

One of the important rules in governing deposits is the Electronic Fund Transfer Act which, among other things, prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machines (“ATM”) and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those type of transactions. If a consumer does not opt in, any ATM transaction or one-time debit card transaction sent for approval that exceeds the customer’s available balance will be declined. Overdrafts on other types of transactions




(e.g. checks, recurring debit card transactions and ACH transactions) are not covered by this rule. Before opting in, the consumer must be provided a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service, and the consumer’s choices. Financial institutions must provide consumers who do not opt in with the same account terms, conditions and features (including pricing) that they provide to consumers who do opt in.

The CFPB issued final rules that change the reporting requirements for lenders under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act.  The new rules, which went into effect on January 1, 2018, expand the range of transactions subject to the requirements to include most securitized residential mortgage loans and credit lines. The rules also increased the overall amount of data required to be collected and submitted, including additional data points about loans and borrowers.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations.

Community Reinvestment Act

Bank Secrecy and Anti-Money Laundering

Federal laws and regulations impose obligations on U.S. financial institutions, including banks and broker/dealer subsidiaries, to implement and maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls which are reasonably designed to prevent, detect and report instances of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and to verify the identity of their customers. In addition, these provisions require the federal financial institution regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.




In May 2016, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, which drafts regulations implementing the USA PATRIOT Act and other anti-money laundering and bank secrecy act legislation, issued final rules that require financial institutions to obtain beneficial ownership information with respect to legal entities with which such institutions conduct business, subject to certain exclusions and exemptions, and financial institutions that are subject to these final rules, including M&T, were required to comply by May 2018. Bank regulators are focusing their examinations on anti-money laundering compliance, and M&T continues to monitor and augment, where necessary, its anti-money laundering compliance programs.

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on “U.S. persons” engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g. property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences.

Federal Reserve Policies

The earnings of the Company are significantly affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve are open-market operations in U.S. Government securities and federal funds, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits. The Federal Reserve frequently uses these instruments of monetary policy, especially its open-market operations and the discount rate, to influence the level of interest rates and to affect the strength of the economy, the level of inflation or the price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of banking institutions in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. It is not possible to predict the nature of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies or the effect which they may have on the Company’s business and earnings.

Corporate Governance

M&T’s Corporate Governance Standards and the following corporate governance documents are also available on M&T’s website at the Investor Relations link: Disclosure and Regulation FD Policy; Executive Committee Charter; Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee Charter; Audit Committee Charter; Risk Committee Charter; Financial Reporting and Disclosure Controls and Procedures Policy; Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Employee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters; and Excessive or Luxury Expenditures Policy. Copies of such governance documents are also available, free of charge, to any person who requests them. Such requests may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation,




Shareholder Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 8th Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2399 (Telephone: (716) 842-5138).

Competition

The Company competes in offering commercial and personal financial and wealth services with other banking institutions and thrifts and with firms in a number of other industries, such as credit unions, personal loan companies, sales finance companies, leasing companies, securities brokerage firms, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, wealth and investment advisory firms, insurance companies and other financial services-related entities. Furthermore, diversified financial services companies are able to offer a combination of these services to their customers on a nationwide basis. The Company’s operations are significantly impacted by state and federal regulations applicable to the banking industry. Moreover, provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, the Interstate Banking Act and state banking laws have allowed for increased competition among diversified financial services providers and e-commerce and other Internet-based companies.

Other Information

Through a link on the Investor Relations section of M&T’s website at www.mtb.com, copies of M&T’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. Copies of such reports and other information are also available at no charge to any person who requests them or at www.sec.gov. Such requests may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 8th Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2399 (Telephone: (716) 842-5138).

Statistical Disclosure Pursuant to Guide 3

See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional information is included in the following tables.




Table 1

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END BALANCES




(In thousands)



Interest-bearing deposits at banks$8,105,197$5,078,903$5,000,638$7,594,350$6,470,867

Federal funds sold————83,392

Trading account185,584132,909323,867273,783308,175

Investment securities

U.S. Treasury and federal agencies11,746,24013,851,83215,090,57814,540,23712,042,390

Obligations of states and politicalsubdivisions9,15327,15164,499124,459157,159

Other937,420785,5421,095,391991,743793,993

Total investment securities12,692,81314,664,52516,250,46815,656,43912,993,542

Loans and leases

Commercial, financial, leasing, etc.23,136,91321,900,25822,770,62920,576,73719,617,253

Real estate — construction8,823,6358,125,9258,066,7565,716,9945,061,269

Real estate — mortgage42,816,85844,965,03848,134,19849,841,15631,250,968

Consumer13,956,08613,251,66512,130,09411,584,34710,969,879

Total loans and leases88,733,49288,242,88691,101,67787,719,23466,899,369

Unearned discount(267,015)(253,903)(248,261)(229,735)(230,413)

Loans and leases, net of unearneddiscount88,466,47787,988,98390,853,41687,489,49966,668,956

Allowance for credit losses(1,019,444)(1,017,198)(988,997)(955,992)(919,562)

Loans and leases, net87,447,03386,971,78589,864,41986,533,50765,749,394

Goodwill4,593,1124,593,1124,593,1124,593,1123,524,625

Core deposit and other intangible assets47,06771,58997,655140,26835,027

Real estate and other assets owned78,375111,910139,206195,08563,635

Total assets120,097,403118,593,487123,449,206122,787,88496,685,535



Noninterest-bearing deposits32,256,66833,975,18032,813,89629,110,63526,947,880

Savings and interest-checking deposits50,963,74451,698,00852,346,20749,566,64443,393,618

Time deposits6,124,2546,580,96210,131,84613,110,3923,063,973

Deposits at Cayman Islands office811,906177,996201,927170,170176,582

Total deposits90,156,57292,432,14695,493,87691,957,84173,582,053

Short-term borrowings4,398,378175,099163,4422,132,182192,676

Long-term borrowings8,444,9148,141,4309,493,83510,653,8589,006,959

Total liabilities104,637,212102,342,668106,962,584106,614,59584,349,639

Shareholders’ equity15,460,19116,250,81916,486,62216,173,28912,335,896

Table 2

SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES AND OFFICES



Number at Year-End20182017201620152014Shareholders18,09918,86419,80220,69314,551Employees17,26716,79416,97317,47615,782Offices794833855863766






Table 3

CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS




(In thousands)

Interest income

Loans and leases, including fees$4,164,561$3,742,867$3,485,050$2,778,151$2,596,586

Investment securities

Fully taxable323,912361,157361,494372,162340,391

Exempt from federal taxes6651,4312,6064,2635,356

Deposits at banks108,18261,32645,51615,25213,361

Other1,3911,0141,2051,0161,183

Total interest income4,598,7114,167,7953,895,8713,170,8442,956,877

Interest expense

Savings and interest-checking deposits215,411133,17787,70446,14046,869

Time deposits51,42361,505102,84127,05915,515

Deposits at Cayman Islands office5,6331,186797615699

Short-term borrowings5,3861,5113,6251,677101

Long-term borrowings248,556189,372231,017252,766217,247

Total interest expense526,409386,751425,984328,257280,431

Net interest income4,072,3023,781,0443,469,8872,842,5872,676,446

Provision for credit losses132,000168,000190,000170,000124,000

Net interest income after provision for credit losses3,940,3023,613,0443,279,8872,672,5872,552,446

Other income

Mortgage banking revenues360,442363,827373,697375,738362,912

Service charges on deposit accounts429,337427,372419,102420,608427,956

Trust income537,585501,381472,184470,640508,258

Brokerage services income51,06961,44563,42364,77067,212

Trading account and foreign exchange gains32,54735,30141,12630,57729,874

Gain (loss) on bank investment securities(6,301)21,27930,314(130)—

Other revenues from operations451,321440,538426,150462,834383,061

Total other income1,856,0001,851,1431,825,9961,825,0371,779,273

Other expense

Salaries and employee benefits1,752,2641,648,7941,618,0741,532,3921,417,995

Equipment and net occupancy298,828295,084295,141272,539269,299

Outside data processing and software199,025184,670172,389164,133151,568

FDIC assessments68,526101,871105,04552,11355,531

Advertising and marketing85,71069,20387,13759,22747,111

Printing, postage and supplies35,65835,96039,54638,49138,201

Amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets24,52231,36642,61326,42433,824

Other costs of operations823,529773,377687,540677,613675,945

Total other expense3,288,0623,140,3253,047,4852,822,9322,689,474

Income before income taxes2,508,2402,323,8622,058,3981,674,6921,642,245

Income taxes590,160915,556743,284595,025575,999

Net income$1,918,080$1,408,306$1,315,114$1,079,667$1,066,246

Dividends declared

Common$510,458$457,200$441,765$374,912$371,137

Preferred72,52172,73481,27081,27075,878






Table 4

COMMON SHAREHOLDER DATA



20182017201620152014Per shareNet incomeBasic$12.75$8.72$7.80$7.22$7.47Diluted12.748.707.787.187.42Cash dividends declared3.553.002.802.802.80Common shareholders’ equity at year-end102.69100.0397.6493.6083.88Tangible common shareholders’ equity atyear-end69.2869.0867.8564.2857.06Dividend payout ratio27.66%34.24%35.81%37.56%37.49%



Table 5

CHANGES IN INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE(a)



2018 Compared with 20172017 Compared with 2016Resulting fromChanges in:Resulting fromChanges in:TotalChangeVolumeRateTotalChangeVolumeRate(Increase (decrease) in thousands)Interest incomeLoans and leases, including fees$410,537(61,159)471,696$265,5427,912257,630Deposits at banks46,85639846,45815,810(21,398)37,208Federal funds sold and agreements to resellsecurities171613—3Trading account277(246)523(240)(232)(8)Investment securitiesU.S. Treasury and federal agencies(36,903)(41,271)4,3683,52015,273(11,753)Obligations of states and politicalsubdivisions(1,204)(1,187)(17)(1,888)(2,061)173Other(1,337)(1,021)(316)(3,215)(3,302)87Total interest income$418,243$279,532Interest expenseInterest-bearing depositsSavings and interest-checking deposits$82,234(3,240)85,474$45,4732,13243,341Time deposits(10,082)(17,490)7,408(41,336)(31,283)(10,053)Deposits at Cayman Islands office4,4472,1332,314389(61)450Short-term borrowings3,8751,3142,561(2,114)(3,923)1,809Long-term borrowings59,18412,99646,188(41,645)(44,662)3,017Total interest expense$139,658$(39,233)



(a)Interest income data are on a taxable-equivalent basis. The apportionment of changes resulting from the combined effect of both volume and rate was based on the separately determined volume and rate changes.








