10-K


g80387e10vk.htm

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC.

United Parcel Service Inc.


________________________________________________________________________________

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS

PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission file number 001-15451

United Parcel Service, Inc.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its
Charter)

(404) 828-6000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

Class A common stock, par value $.01 per
share

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant:
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.    Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).    Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of the class B common
stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of
February 1, 2003 was approximately $30,253,493,290 (based
on the closing price of such stock as of the last business day
of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter). As of February 1, 2003, non-affiliates held
601,948,080 shares of class A common stock and 489,935,114
shares of class B common stock. The registrant’s
class A common stock is not listed on a national securities
exchange or traded in an organized over-the-counter market, but
each share of the registrant’s class A common stock is
convertible into one share of the registrant’s class B
common stock.

As of February 1, 2003, there were
633,145,907 outstanding shares of class A common stock and
490,705,730 outstanding shares of class B common stock.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s definitive
proxy statement for its annual meeting of shareowners scheduled
for May 8, 2003 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this report.



PART I

Item 1.

Business

Overview

We are the world’s largest package delivery
company and a leading global provider of specialized
transportation and logistics services. We were founded in 1907
as a private messenger and delivery service in the Seattle,
Washington area. Over the past 96 years, we have expanded
from a small regional parcel delivery service into a global
company. We deliver packages each business day for
1.8 million shipping customers to 6 million
consignees. In 2002, we delivered an average of more than
13 million pieces per day worldwide. Total revenue in 2002
was over $31 billion. We focus on the movement of goods,
information and funds, and we seek to position ourselves as the
world’s premier enabler of global commerce.

Our primary business is the time-definite
delivery of packages and documents throughout the United States
and in over 200 other countries and territories. We have
established a global transportation infrastructure and developed
a comprehensive portfolio of guaranteed delivery services, and
we support these services with advanced technology. We provide
integrated supply chain solutions for major companies worldwide.
We are the industry leader in the delivery of goods purchased
over the Internet.

Competitive
Strengths

Our competitive strengths include:

Global Reach and
Scale.

We believe that our integrated
global ground and air network is the most extensive in the
industry. We operate a ground fleet of more than 88,000
vehicles, ranging from custom-built delivery vehicles to large
tractors and trailers, and almost 600 airplanes. In the U.S., we
estimate that our integrated door-to-door delivery system
carries goods having a value in excess of 6% of the U.S. gross
domestic product, and we reach all U.S. businesses and
residential addresses. We are the ninth largest airline in North
America and eleventh largest in the world. Our primary air hub
is located in Louisville, Kentucky.

We established our first European operation in
Germany in 1975 and expanded it as the single market created by
the European Union drove the need for pan-European delivery
services. We believe we have the most comprehensive integrated
delivery and information services portfolio of any carrier in
Europe.

Through more than two dozen alliances with Asian
delivery companies that supplement company-owned operations, we
currently serve more than 40 Asia Pacific countries and
territories. With the fastest growing middle classes in the
world, China and India represent two of our most promising
opportunities.

We also are the largest air cargo carrier and a
leading logistics provider in Latin America and the Caribbean.
We have formed alliances with a number of service providers in
countries throughout that region.

Technology Systems.

We continue to be a global leader in merging technology with
business processes to improve operations and provide new or
enhanced services to customers worldwide. We have developed a
strong global capability as a mover of electronic information.
We daily transmit approximately 3 million packets of
tracking data via wireless networks, and we currently collect
electronic data on about 90 percent of the packages that
move through our system each day — more than any of our
competitors.

Technology powers virtually every service we
offer and every operation we perform. Our technology initiatives
continue to be driven by the needs of customers. We provide the
infrastructure for an Internet presence that extends to more
than 60,000 customer web sites that integrate UPS tools. We
offer a variety of on-line service options that enable our
customers to integrate UPS functionality into their own
businesses — not only to conveniently send, manage and
track their shipments, but to provide their own customers with
better information services.

E-Commerce
Capabilities.

We are a leading
participant in and facilitator of global e-commerce, which we
define as the use of networked computer technology to facilitate
the buying and selling of goods and services. According to
Forrester Research, by 2004, business-to-business e-commerce
will grow to $6.3



trillion, and online transactions will account
for 17% of business trade volume in the U.S. and 18% of world
exports. Forrester Research also has projected that online
retail sales will grow to $217.8 billion by 2007, which
would comprise 8% of all retail sales. We enable our customers
around the world to thrive in this environment by providing a
portfolio of technology solutions that streamline their shipment
processing and integrate critical transportation information
into their business processes.

Broad, Flexible Range of Distribution
Services.

Our portfolio of services
enables customers to choose the delivery option that is most
appropriate for their requirements. All of our delivery service
offerings are guaranteed.

Our express air services are integrated with our
vast ground delivery system. This integrated air and ground
network enhances efficiency, improves productivity and provides
us with the flexibility to transport packages using the most
reliable and cost-effective transportation mode or combination
of modes. Our sophisticated engineering systems allow us to
optimize our network efficiency and asset utilization on a daily
basis.

Customer Relationships.

We focus on building and maintaining
long-term customer relationships. We deliver packages each
business day for 1.8 million shipping customers to
6 million consignees. In addition, thousands of other
customers access us daily through UPS On-Call
Pickup

SM

for air delivery services, about 45,000
letter drop-boxes, over 8,000 independently owned authorized
shipping outlets, and through more than 4,000 independently
owned and operated Mail Boxes Etc.® locations. In February
2003, we announced a plan to allow all Mail Boxes Etc.
franchisees in the contiguous U.S. to convert their retail
centers to The UPS Store

SM

.

We place significant value on the quality of our
customer relationships, and we conduct comprehensive research to
monitor customer perceptions. Since 1993, we have conducted
telephone interviews with shipping decision-makers virtually
every business day to determine their satisfaction with delivery
providers and perception of performance on 17 key categories of
service factors. Results from this survey for the second half of
2002 were the highest we ever have achieved.

Brand Equity.

We
have built the leading and most trusted brand in our industry.
Our reputation for quality service, reliability and product
innovation is unmatched. The distinctive appearance of our
vehicles and the friendliness and helpfulness of our drivers are
major contributors to our brand equity.

Over the past several years, we successfully have
expanded our brand to stand for much more than U.S. ground
delivery. The UPS brand now is recognized in the U.S. and around
the world as a global provider of time-definite services. We are
taking advantage of our strong brand equity to expand our
product offerings in the supply chain solutions arena in order
to help our customers build their businesses and become more
profitable.

Distinctive People and
Culture.

We believe that the
dedication of our employees results in large part from our
distinctive “employee-owner” concept. Our employee
stock ownership tradition dates from 1927, when our founders,
who believed that employee stock ownership was a vital
foundation for successful business, first offered stock to
employees. To facilitate employee stock ownership, we maintain
several stock-based compensation programs.

Our long-standing policy of “promotion from
within” complements our tradition of employee ownership,
and this policy makes it generally unnecessary for us to hire
managers and executive officers from outside UPS. The vast
majority of our management team began their careers as full-time
or part-time hourly UPS employees, and have since spent their
entire careers with us. Our chief executive officer and most of
our executive officers have more than 30 years of service with
us and have accumulated a meaningful ownership stake in our
company. Therefore, our executive officers have a strong
incentive to effectively manage UPS, which benefits all of our
shareowners.

Financial Strength.

Our balance sheet reflects financial strength that few companies
can match. As of December 31, 2002, we had a balance of
cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and short-term
investments of approximately $3 billion and
shareowners’ equity of $12.5 billion. Long-term debt
was



$3.5 billion. Our financial strength has
given us the resources to achieve global scale and to make
investments in technology, transportation equipment and
buildings needed to facilitate our growth.

Growth
Strategy

Our growth strategy takes advantage of our
competitive strengths while maintaining our focus on meeting or
exceeding our customers’ requirements. The principal
components of our growth strategy are:

Build on Our Leadership Position in Our U.S.
Business.

Our U.S. package operation
is the foundation of our business and the primary engine for our
future growth. We believe that our tradition of reliable package
delivery service, our experienced and dedicated employees and
our unmatched integrated air and ground network provide us with
the advantages of reputation, service quality and economies of
scale that differentiate us from our competitors. Our strategy
is to increase core domestic revenues through cross-selling our
existing and new services to our large and diverse customer
base, to limit the rate of expense growth and to employ
technology-driven efficiencies to increase operating profit.

Continue International
Expansion.

We have built a strong
international presence through significant investments over a
number of years. The international package delivery market has
grown, and continues to grow, at a faster rate than the U.S.
market. We plan to utilize our worldwide infrastructure and
broad product portfolio to continue to grow high-margin premium
services and to implement cost, process and technology
improvements in our international operations.

Europe is our largest market outside the United
States, followed by Asia. Both of these regions offer
significant opportunities for growth as the European Union
expands into the Eastern Bloc countries and creates even greater
economic cohesion. Growth in Asia will be driven by improving
demographic and economic trends in China, South Korea and India.

Provide Comprehensive Supply Chain
Solutions.

Many businesses outsource
the management of all or part of their supply chains to
streamline and gain efficiencies, to strengthen their balance
sheets and to improve service. We anticipate that there will be
further demand for a global service offering that incorporates
transportation, distribution and international trade services
with financial and information services. We believe that we are
well positioned to capitalize on this growth for the following
reasons:

Leverage Our Leading-Edge Technology and
E-Commerce Advantage.

We believe that
e-commerce will drive smaller and more frequent shipments and
provide a strong complement to our core delivery service
offerings.

Our goals are to provide our customers with
easy-to-use, flexible technology offerings that streamline their
shipment processing and integrate critical transportation
information into their business processes, helping them create
supply chain efficiencies, improve their cash flows and serve
their customers. Our leading-edge technology has enabled our
e-commerce partners to integrate our shipping functionality into
their e-commerce product suites. Our partners’ products are
being installed throughout the Internet, and we expect these
integrated systems to provide us with a competitive advantage as
they allow our customers to provide better decision-making
information and improve customer service.



Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Global
Alliances.

Strategic acquisitions and
global alliances play a significant role in spurring growth. We
look for opportunities that:

Domestic
Package Products and Services

For most of our history, we have been engaged
primarily in the delivery of packages traveling by ground
transportation. We expanded this service gradually, and today
our standard ground service is available to every address in the
48 contiguous United States. We handle packages that weigh
no more than 150 pounds and are no larger than
108 inches in length and 130 inches in combined length
and girth.

In addition to our standard ground delivery
product,

UPS Hundredweight Service

® offers
discounted rates to customers sending multiple package shipments
having a combined weight of 200 pounds or more, or air shipments
totaling 100 pounds or more, addressed to one recipient at
one address and shipped on the same day. Customers realize
significant savings on these shipments compared to
less-than-truckload (or LTL) or air freight forwarder rates.

We provide domestic air delivery throughout the
United States.

UPS Next Day Air

® offers guaranteed
next business day delivery by 10:30 a.m. to more than 74%
of the United States population and delivery by noon to areas
covering an additional 15% of the population. We offer Saturday
delivery for UPS Next Day Air shipments for an additional fee.

UPS domestic air products include:

UPS Next Day
Air®

Early A.M.®

UPS Next Day Air®

UPS Next Day Air Saver®

UPS 2nd Day Air A.M.®

UPS 2nd Day Air

3 Day Select®

We offer additional services, such as Consignee
Billing, Delivery Confirmation and UPS Returns

SM

, to
customers that require customized package distribution solutions.

International
Package Products and Services

We deliver international shipments to more than
200 countries and territories worldwide, and we provide
guaranteed overnight delivery to the world’s major business
centers. We offer a complete portfolio of import, export and
domestic services. This portfolio includes guaranteed 8:00 a.m.,
8:30 a.m., 10:30 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. next business day
delivery to major cities around the world, as well as scheduled
day-definite air and ground services. We offer complete customs
clearance service for any mode of transportation, regardless of
carrier.



UPS international services include:

UPS Worldwide
    Express

SM

UPS Worldwide Express
    Plus

SM

UPS Worldwide Express

SM

NA1

UPS Express Saver

UPS Worldwide
    Expedited

SM

UPS Standard

UPS
    WorldEase

SM

We also have a portfolio of UPS domestic services
in 20 major countries throughout the world, which provide our
customers time-definite delivery options for packages moving
between points in those countries.

Europe is our largest market outside the United
States. We experienced double-digit export volume growth in
Europe during 2002, outpacing market growth. Transborder
services, or the movement of packages within Europe, are proving
to be the growth engine in this region. We have announced plans
to expand our major air hub in Cologne, Germany.

We continue to invest in infrastructure and
technology in Asia. In April 2002, we opened a new intra-Asia
hub at Clark Air Force Base in Pampanga, Philippines to enable
future growth in the region. This hub allows us to compete more
effectively in the Asian express market and improve our
Europe/Asia service. We have acquired landing slots on the new
runway at Tokyo’s Narita Airport, which will enhance access
and connections to the new intra-Asia hub. We recently received
from the U.S. Department of Transportation an interim grant of
authority to expand service to and through Hong Kong, and we
also have applied for permanent authority to fly from Hong Kong
to other cities, specifically to our Cologne hub in Europe. We
continue our development efforts in the fast-growing China
market.

We believe that there is significant untapped
potential for us to expand our service offerings in Latin
America. To this end, we have introduced overnight delivery
between key cities in the Mercosur and other trade blocs and
opened our Americas International Gateway in Miami, Florida.
This new gateway complements our current operations in Florida
and Latin America and represents our commitment to the Americas
market.

Mexico also is important to our international
activity. We created UPS Trade Direct

SM

Cross Border
service to manage movements to the U.S. from the maquiladoras in
Mexico. This service combines UPS’s small package, freight
and brokerage capabilities to create an integrated, streamlined
and economical solution for customers with complex cross-border
distribution needs. This solution also will be available for
Canadian firms wishing to gain distribution efficiencies as they
ship to U.S. customers.

During 2002, we also introduced UPS Trade Direct
Ocean, a service that transforms ocean container movements into
pre-labeled small packages or LTL shipments. When the goods
arrive in the U.S., packages are deconsolidated and entered into
the UPS system, eliminating the receiving, sorting and handling
necessary in distribution centers. This service significantly
cuts the supply chain cycle from point of origin to consignee.
It provides our customers with faster time to market, reduced
costs and increased visibility into, and better management of,
the supply chain.

Non-Package
Products and Services

Supply
Chain Services

In February 2002, we began a three-phased
approach to integrating our supply chain business units. First,
we created UPS Supply Chain Solutions

SM

, a
streamlined organization that combined the sales and marketing
functions of our supply chain subsidiaries. This new
organization makes it easier for customers to access our
expanding range of logistics, freight, financial and consulting
services in order to improve the performance of their global
supply chains. Then, we developed a shared services approach to
finance, accounting, human resources and information technology
that supports these subsidiaries. Lastly, we combined UPS
Logistics Group and UPS Freight Services. Effective January
2003, these organizations began to operate on a



geographic rather than on a service basis. The
combined operations function in 120 countries. Integrating these
business units offers several benefits, including better
customer service, easier cross-selling, reduced costs and
greater growth opportunities.

UPS Supply Chain Solutions meets customers’
supply chain needs by selecting the most appropriate solution
from a portfolio of over 60 services. Among these are:

Electronic
Services

We provide a variety of UPS on-line solutions
that support automated shipping and tracking.

Our website strategy is to provide our customers
with the convenience of all the functions that they otherwise
would perform over the phone or at one of our shipping outlets.
Package tracking, pick-up requests, rate quotes, account
opening, wireless registration, drop-off locator, transit times
and supply ordering services all are available at the
customer’s desktop. The site also displays full domestic
and international service information.

UPS.com receives more than 86 million hits
and processes over 7.9 million package tracking
transactions daily. A growing number of those tracking requests
now come from customers in the 35 countries that have wireless
access to UPS tracking information. Businesses in 46 countries
also can download UPS OnLine Tools to their own websites for
direct use by their customers. This allows users to access the
information they need without leaving our customers’
websites.

Sales and
Marketing

Our field sales organization includes about 3,600
domestic and 1,200 international account executives worldwide.
Account executives are assigned to individual operating
districts. For our largest multi-site customers, we have an
organization of regionally based account managers who report
directly to our corporate office.

We also have three supplemental sales forces. In
the U.S., we have an international business sales force, which
is focused on international business out of major U.S. business
centers, and a UPS Hundredweight



Service sales force, which focuses on LTL volume.
Globally, we have an e-commerce sales team, which focuses on UPS
technology solutions for businesses.

Our marketing organization is generally organized
along similar lines. At the corporate level, the marketing group
is engaged in brand management, rate-making and revenue
management policy, market and customer research, product
development, product management, marketing alliances and
e-commerce, including the non-technical aspects of our web
presence. Advertising, public relations and most formal
marketing communications are centrally conceived and controlled.

Individual district and region marketing
personnel are engaged in business planning, bid preparation and
other revenue management activities, and in coordinating
alignment with corporate marketing initiatives. Individual
regions and districts may engage in local promotional and public
relations activities pertinent to their locales.

Employees

During 2002, we had approximately 360,000
employees.

We have received numerous awards and wide
recognition as an employer-of-choice, including the following:

As of December 31, 2002, we had
approximately 230,000 employees (64% of our total employees)
employed under a national master agreement and various
supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters. On October 7, 2002,
the Teamsters ratified a new master agreement with UPS that runs
through July 31, 2008. The new agreement is retroactive to
August 1, 2002. The majority of our pilots are employed
under a collective bargaining agreement with the Independent
Pilots Association, which becomes amendable January 1,
2004. Our airline mechanics are covered by a collective
bargaining agreement with Teamsters Local 2727, which becomes
amendable on November 1, 2006. In addition, the majority of
our ground mechanics who are not employed under agreements with
the Teamsters are employed under collective bargaining
agreements with the International Association of Machinists and
Aerospace Workers. These agreements run through July 31,
2009.

We believe that our relations with our employees
are good.

Competition

We are the largest package delivery company in
the world, in terms of both revenue and volume. We offer a broad
array of services in the package delivery industry and,
therefore, compete with many different companies and services on
a local, regional, national and international basis. Our
competitors include the postal services of the United States and
other nations, various motor carriers, express companies,
freight forwarders, air couriers and others. Our major
competitors include the United States Postal Service, FedEx,
Airborne Express, DHL Worldwide Express, Deutsche Post and TNT
Post Group.

We believe competition increasingly is based on a
carrier’s ability to integrate its distribution and
information systems with its customers’ systems to provide
unique transportation solutions at competitive prices. We rely
on our vast infrastructure and service portfolio to attract and
maintain customers. As we expand our supply chain and other
non-package businesses, we compete with a number of participants
in the supply chain, financial services and information
technology industries.



Government
Regulation

Both the U.S. Department of Transportation and
the Federal Aviation Administration regulate air transportation
services.

The DOT’s authority primarily relates to
economic aspects of air transportation, such as discriminatory
pricing, non-competitive practices, interlocking relations and
cooperative agreements. The DOT also regulates, subject to the
authority of the President of the United States, international
routes, fares, rates and practices, and is authorized to
investigate and take action against discriminatory treatment of
U.S. air carriers abroad. We are subject to U.S. customs laws
and related DOT regulations regarding the import and export of
shipments to and from the U.S. In addition, our customs
brokerage entities are subject to those same laws and
regulations as they relate to the filing of documents on behalf
of client importers and exporters.

The FAA’s authority primarily relates to
safety aspects of air transportation, including aircraft
standards and maintenance, personnel and ground facilities. In
1988, the FAA granted us an operating certificate, which remains
in effect so long as we meet the operational requirements of
federal aviation regulations.

The FAA has issued rules mandating repairs on all
Boeing Company and McDonnell-Douglas Corporation aircraft that
have completed a specified number of flights, and also has
issued rules requiring a corrosion control program for Boeing
Company aircraft. Our total expenditures under these programs
for 2002 were about $17 million. The future cost of repairs
pursuant to these programs may fluctuate. All mandated repairs
have been completed, or are scheduled to be completed, within
the timeframes specified by the FAA.

In response to the September 11, 2001
terrorist attacks, on September 22, 2001, President Bush
signed into law the Air Transportation Safety and System
Stabilization Act, a $15 billion emergency economic
assistance package to mitigate the dramatic financial losses
experienced by the nation’s air carriers. We submitted a
claim for compensation to the DOT and recognized a pre-tax
amount of $74 million in 2001 related to this reimbursement as a
credit to other operating expenses. We may become subject to
additional regulation (by the FAA or by other federal or state
agencies) as a result of increased security concerns in the
aftermath of September 11.

Our ground transportation of packages in the U.S.
is subject to the DOT’s jurisdiction with respect to the
regulation of routes and to both the DOT’s and the
states’ jurisdiction with respect to the regulation of
safety, insurance and hazardous materials.

We are subject to similar regulation in many
non-U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, we are subject to non-U.S.
government regulation of aviation rights to and beyond non-U.S.
jurisdictions, and non-U.S. customs regulation.

The Postal Reorganization Act of 1970 created the
U.S. Postal Service as an independent establishment of the
executive branch of the federal government, and vested the power
to recommend domestic postal rates in a regulatory body, the
Postal Rate Commission. We believe that the U.S. Postal Service
consistently attempts to set rates for its monopoly services,
particularly First Class letter mail, above the cost of
providing those services, in order to use the excess revenues to
subsidize its expedited, parcel, international and other
competitive services. Therefore, we participate in the
proceedings before the Postal Rate Commission in an attempt to
secure fair postal rates for competitive services.

We are subject to numerous other laws and
regulations in connection with our non-package businesses,
including customs regulations, Food and Drug Administration
regulation of our transportation of pharmaceuticals and state
and federal lending regulations.

Where You Can
Find More Information

We make our annual reports on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports filed
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, available free of charge on our website,
located at http://www.ups.com, as soon as reasonably practicable
after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC.

See Footnote 12 to our consolidated
financial statements for financial information regarding our
industry segments and geographic areas in which we operate.



Item 1A.

Executive
Officers of the Registrant



Item 2.

Properties

Operating Facilities

We own our headquarters, which are located in
Atlanta, Georgia and consist of about 735,000 square feet of
office space on an office campus, and our UPS Supply Chain
Solutions group’s headquarters, which are located in
Alpharetta, Georgia and consist of about 310,000 square feet of
office space.

We also own our 27 principal U.S. package
operating facilities, which have floor spaces that range from
about 310,000 to 693,000 square feet. In addition, we have a
1.9 million square foot operating facility near Chicago,
Illinois, which is designed to streamline shipments between East
Coast and West Coast destinations, and we own or lease about
1,500 additional smaller package operating facilities in the
U.S. The smaller of these facilities have vehicles and drivers
stationed for the pickup of packages and facilities for the
sorting, transfer and delivery of packages. The larger of these
facilities also service our vehicles and equipment and employ
specialized mechanical installations for the sorting and
handling of packages.

We own or lease almost 600 facilities that
support our international package operations and over 750
facilities that support our non-package operations. Our
non-package operations maintain facilities with about
25 million square feet of floor space.

We believe that our facilities are adequate to
support our current operations.

Our aircraft are operated in a hub and spokes
pattern in the U.S. Our principal air hub in the U.S. is located
in Louisville, Kentucky, with regional air hubs in Columbia,
South Carolina; Dallas, Texas; Hartford, Connecticut; Ontario,
California; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Rockford, Illinois.
These hubs house facilities for the sorting, transfer and
delivery of packages. Our European air hub is located in
Cologne, Germany, and our Asia-Pacific air hub is located in
Taipei, Taiwan. Our intra-Asia air hub is located at Clark Air
Force Base in Pampanga, Philippines, and our regional air hub in
Canada is located in Hamilton, Ontario.



In September 2002, we celebrated the opening of
our new Worldport

SM

facility at the Louisville,
Kentucky air hub. This $1 billion expansion of our global
all-points air facility is the centerpiece of our global
distribution network. The project more than doubles the size of
the sorting complex to 4 million square feet and automates
the express package sorting process with advanced, customized
technology. The expansion is the largest capital project in our
history and increases the hub’s sorting capacity to 304,000
packages per hour — or more than 84 packages
every second. The expanded capacity and automated sorting
translate to greater reliability and faster transit times for
customers.

Our computer operations are consolidated in a
435,000 square foot owned facility, the Ramapo Ridge facility,
which is located on a 39-acre site in Mahwah, New Jersey. We
also own a 175,000 square foot facility located on a 25-acre
site in Alpharetta, Georgia, which serves as a backup to the
main computer operations facility in New Jersey. This facility
provides production functions and backup capacity in the event
that a power outage or other disaster incapacitates the main
data center. It also helps us to meet communication needs.

Fleet

Aircraft

The following table shows information about our
aircraft fleet as of December 31, 2002:

We maintain an inventory of spare engines and
parts for each aircraft.

All of the aircraft we own meet Stage III
federal noise regulations and can operate at airports that have
aircraft noise restrictions. We became the first major airline
to successfully operate a 100% Stage III fleet more than
three years in advance of the date required by federal
regulations.

During 2002, we took delivery of
six Airbus A300-600 aircraft and three
Boeing MD-11 aircraft. We have firm commitments to purchase
11 Boeing MD-11 aircraft between 2003 and 2004 and
66 Airbus A300-600 aircraft between 2003 and 2009. We
expect to take delivery of four Boeing MD-11 aircraft and eight
Airbus A300-600 aircraft during 2003. We also have options to
purchase 18 Boeing MD-11 aircraft between 2005 and
2010 and 42 Airbus A300-600 aircraft between 2004 and
2012.

Vehicles

We operate a ground fleet of more than 88,000
vehicles, ranging from custom-built delivery vehicles to large
tractors and trailers.



Our ground support fleet consists of over 25,000
pieces of equipment designed specifically to support our
aircraft fleet, ranging from non-powered container dollies and
racks to powered aircraft main deck loaders and cargo tractors.
We also have about 31,000 containers used to transport cargo in
our aircraft.

Safety

We promote safety throughout our operations.

Our Automotive Fleet Safety Program is built with
the following components:

Our workplace safety program is built upon a
comprehensive health and safety process. The foundation of this
process is our employee-management health and safety committees.
The workplace safety process focuses on employee conditioning
and safety-related habits. Our employee co-chaired health and
safety committees complete comprehensive facility audits and
injury analyses, and recommend facility and work process changes.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

On August 9, 1999, the United States Tax
Court held that we were liable for tax on income of Overseas
Partners Ltd. (“OPL”), a Bermuda company that had
reinsured excess value (“EV”) package insurance
purchased by our customers beginning in 1984, and that we were
liable for additional tax for the 1983 and 1984 tax years. The
Court held that for the 1984 tax year we were liable for taxes
of $31 million on income reported by OPL, penalties and
penalty interest of $93 million, and interest for a total
after-tax exposure estimated at approximately $246 million.

The IRS took similar positions to those advanced
in the Tax Court decision for tax years subsequent to 1984.
Based on the Tax Court decision, we estimated that our total
after-tax exposure for tax years 1984 through 1999 could have
been as high as $2.353 billion.

In our second quarter 1999 financial statements,
we recorded a tax assessment charge of $1.786 billion,
which included an amount for related state tax liabilities. The
charge included taxes of $915 million and interest of $871
million. This assessment resulted in a tax benefit of
$344 million related to the interest component of the
assessment. As a result, our net charge to net income for the
tax assessment was $1.442 billion, increasing our total
after-tax reserve at that time with respect to these matters to
$1.672 billion. The tax benefit of deductible interest was
included in income taxes in 1999; however, since none of the
income on which this tax assessment was based was our income, we
did not classify the tax charge as income taxes.

We determined the size of our reserve with
respect to these matters in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
In 1999, we estimated our most likely liability



based on the initial Tax Court decision. In
making this determination, we concluded that, based on the Tax
Court decision, it was more likely that we would be required to
pay taxes on income reported by OPL and interest, but that it
was not probable that we would be required to pay any penalties
and penalty interest. In our prior estimation, if penalties and
penalty interest ultimately were determined to be payable, we
would have had to record an additional charge of up to
$681 million.

Further, as a result of the unfavorable Tax Court
decision, and in order to stop the potential accrual of
additional interest that might ultimately have been determined
to be due to the IRS, on August 31, 1999 we paid
$1.349 billion, and on August 8, 2000 we paid an
additional $91 million, to the IRS related to these matters
for the 1984 through 1994 tax years. We included the profit of
the EV insurance program, using the IRS’s methodology for
calculating these amounts, for both 1998 and 1999 in filings we
made with the IRS in 1999. In February 2000, we paid
$339 million to the IRS related to these matters for the
1995 through 1997 tax years.

On June 20, 2001, the United States Court of
Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit reversed the Tax Court’s
decision. On September 13, 2001, the Eleventh Circuit
denied the IRS’s petition to have the appeal reheard en
banc. The IRS did not attempt to appeal the case to the U.S.
Supreme Court and, consequently, the case was remanded to the
Tax Court to consider alternative arguments raised by the
parties.

In January 2003, we and the IRS finalized
settlement of all outstanding tax issues related to EV package
insurance. Under the settlement of these issues, we agreed to
adjustments that will result in income tax due of approximately
$562 million, additions to tax of $60 million and related
interest. The amount due to the IRS as a result of the
settlement is less than amounts we previously had accrued (as
described above). As a result, we recorded income, before taxes,
of $1.023 billion ($776 million after tax) during the
fourth quarter of 2002. The refunds and credits associated with
this settlement are expected to occur over the next several
years.

The EV program that was the subject of the Tax
Court decision has been changed since September 1999. The
revised arrangement should eliminate the issues considered by
the Tax Court and the Eleventh Circuit related to OPL.

The IRS has proposed adjustments, unrelated to
the EV package insurance matters discussed above, regarding the
allowance of deductions and certain losses, the characterization
of expenses as capital rather than ordinary, the treatment of
certain income, and our entitlement to the investment tax credit
and the research tax credit in the 1985 through 1990 tax years.
The proposed adjustments would result in $10 million of
additional income tax expense. The IRS has also issued a report
taking a similar position with respect to some of these issues
for each of the years from 1991 through 1994. That report
proposes adjustments that would result in $50 million in
additional income tax expense. In November 2002, the IRS issued
a report taking a similar position with respect to some of these
issues for each of the years 1995 through 1998. That report
proposes adjustments that would result in $13 million in
additional income tax expense. For the 1985 through 1998 tax
years, unpaid interest on these adjustments through
December 31, 2002 could aggregate up to approximately $381
million, after the benefit of related tax deductions. We expect
that we will prevail on substantially all of these issues.
Specifically, we believe that our practice of expensing the
items that the IRS alleges should have been capitalized is
consistent with the practices of other industry participants.
The IRS may take similar positions with respect to some of these
issues for each of the years 1999 through 2002. The IRS’s
proposed adjustments include penalties and penalty interest. We
believe that the possibility that such penalties and penalty
interest will be sustained is remote. We believe that the
eventual resolution of these issues will not have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
or liquidity.

We are named as a defendant in 23 pending
lawsuits that seek to hold us liable for the collection of
premiums for EV insurance in connection with package shipments
since 1984. Based on state and federal tort, contract and
statutory claims, these cases generally claim that we failed to
remit collected EV premiums to an independent insurer; we failed
to provide promised EV insurance; we acted as an insurer without
complying with state insurance laws and regulations; and the
price for EV insurance was excessive.



These actions all were filed after the
August 9, 1999 Tax Court decision. As discussed above, on
June 20, 2001, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit ruled in our favor and reversed the Tax Court decision.

These 23 cases have been consolidated for
pre-trial purposes in a multi-district litigation proceeding
(“MDL Proceeding”) in federal court in New York. The
Court has ruled on motions to dismiss, granting our motions to
dismiss with respect to all of the plaintiffs’ tort claims
and all of their breach of contract claims prior to
August 26, 1994. Claims asserted under specific federal
statutes, and breach of contract claims commencing on August 26,
1994, may proceed at this time. We intend to continue to seek
dismissal of these remaining claims.

The defendants in the MDL Proceeding, including
UPS, have stipulated to conditional certification of a plaintiff
class in most of the lawsuits challenging the EV insurance
program for our shippers. Class certification is a procedural
step that allows claims to be resolved at one time as to all
potential claimants; it does not depend on or reflect the merits
of the underlying claims. Defendants may move later to set aside
or modify the class certification.

The cases subject to the class certification
stipulation will proceed to a single trial before the federal
court presiding over the MDL Proceeding, instead of being
returned for trial to the numerous federal courts around the
country from which they were transferred. In addition,
plaintiffs in the five cases with pending motions to remand to
state court have withdrawn these motions.

In addition to the cases in which UPS is named as
a defendant, there also is an action,

Smith v. Mail Boxes
Etc.,

against Mail Boxes Etc. and its franchisees relating
to UPS EV insurance purchased through Mail Boxes Etc. centers.
This case also has been consolidated into the MDL Proceeding.
The plaintiff has moved to have the case remanded back to state
court.

We believe that the allegations in these cases
have no merit and intend to continue to defend them vigorously.
The ultimate resolution of these cases cannot presently be
determined.

In addition, we are a defendant in various other
lawsuits that arose in the normal course of business. We believe
that the eventual resolution of these cases will not have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or liquidity.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

PART II

Item  5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity
    and Related Stockholder Matters

Our class A common stock is not listed on a
national securities exchange or traded in an organized
over-the-counter market. Our class B common stock trades on
the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol
“UPS”.



The following is a summary of our Class B
common stock price activity and dividend information for 2002
and 2001.

As of February 26, 2003, there were 171,649
and 13,550 record holders of Class A and Class B
stock, respectively.

The policy of our board of directors is to
declare dividends each year out of current earnings. The
declaration of future dividends is subject to the discretion of
the board of directors in light of all relevant facts, including
earnings, general business conditions and working capital
requirements.

On February 13, 2003, our board declared a
dividend of $0.21 per share.

Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data

The following table sets forth selected financial
data for each of the five years in the period ended
December 31, 2002 (amounts in millions, except per share
amounts). This financial data should be read together with our
consolidated financial statements and the related notes,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and other financial data appearing
elsewhere in this report.



(1)

Excludes (on an after-tax basis)
    $121 million gain related to change in vacation policy,
    $65 million restructuring charge and related expenses,
    $72 million charge related to the adoption of FAS 142, and
    $776 million gain related to the settlement of a previously
    established tax assessment liability.

(2)

Excludes $26 million after-tax charge
    related to the adoption of FAS 133.

(3)

Excludes (on an after-tax basis)
    $145 million in investment gains, a $29 million gain on the
    sale of our UPS Truck Leasing subsidiary, and a $35 million
    charge related to an arbitration ruling under our 1997 contract
    with the Teamsters.

(4)

Excludes a $1.442 billion tax assessment
    charge.



Item  7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion is intended to provide
our investors with an understanding of our results of operations
for the most recent years and our current financial condition.
This discussion should be read together with our consolidated
financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere
in this report.

Operations

The following tables set forth information
showing the change in revenue, average daily package volume and
average revenue per piece, both in dollars or amounts and in
percentage terms:





Operating Profit

The following tables set forth information
showing the change in operating profit, both in dollars (in
millions) and in percentage terms:

U. S.
Domestic Package Operations

2002 compared to

U.S. domestic package revenue decreased
$73 million, or 0.3%, for the year. This decrease was
driven by a 1.9% decrease in average daily package volume, and
partially offset by a 1.6% increase in revenue per piece. The
decline in volume was a result of the impact of volume diversion
to competitors in connection with the agreement reached on a new
six-year contract with the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, combined with the continued weakness in the U.S.
economy. The decline in volume was most pronounced in the period
surrounding the July 31, 2002 expiration date of the
existing contract.

On January 7, 2002, we increased rates for
standard ground shipments an average of 3.5% for commercial
deliveries. The ground residential charge increased $0.05 to
$1.10 over the commercial ground rate, and this charge also was
applied to express deliveries. The additional delivery area
surcharge, which is added to ground deliveries in certain less
accessible areas, remained at $1.50, and also was applied to
express deliveries. Rates for UPS Hundredweight increased 5.9%.

We also increased rates for UPS Next Day Air, UPS
Next Day Air Saver, UPS 2nd Day Air, and 3 Day Select an average
of 4.0%. The surcharge for UPS Next Day Air Early A.M. increased
from $27.50 to $28.50. Rates for international shipments
originating in the U.S. (UPS Worldwide Express, UPS Worldwide
Express Plus, UPS Worldwide Expedited and UPS Standard service)
increased an average of 3.9%. Rate changes for shipments
originating outside the U.S. were made throughout the year and
varied by geographic market.

An index-based fuel surcharge continued during
2002. The index-based surcharge, which resets on a monthly
basis, replaced a fixed fuel surcharge of 1.25%, which was
originally implemented prior to 2001. The current surcharge is
based on the National U.S. Average On-Highway Diesel Fuel Prices
as reported by the U.S. Department of Energy. Based on published
rates, the average fuel surcharge for the year ended
December 31, 2002 was 0.78%. Approximately
$251 million in revenue was recorded in 2002 as a result of
our fuel surcharge, a decrease of $97 million from the
prior year.

U.S. domestic package operating profit decreased
$44 million, or 1.2%, for the year ended December 31,
2002. Operating profit was affected by a non-recurring benefit
to operating expense of $175 million that occurred in 2002
related to a change in our vacation policy for non-union
employees. Excluding this item, U.S. domestic package operating
profit decreased $219 million, or 6.0% for the year, due to the
decrease in average daily volume discussed previously and an
increase in operating expenses (discussed further below). In
2001,



we recorded a credit to expense related to the
Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, which
benefited the U.S. domestic package segment by $28 million.

2001 compared to

U.S. domestic package revenue was flat in 2001
compared to 2000, primarily as a result of a 1.0% decrease in
average daily package volume, offset by a 1.7% increase in
average revenue per piece. The decrease in volume resulted from
the declining U.S. economy during 2001. For the first quarter of
2001, average daily domestic volume was up 1.3%. However,
average daily domestic volume was down 0.9% during the second
quarter, down 3.4% during the third quarter, and down 0.8%
during the fourth quarter. The third quarter decline was largely
a result of the events of September 11. Also affecting the
comparison were two extra operating days in 2000 compared to
2001.

During the first quarter of 2001, we increased
rates for standard ground shipments an average of 3.1% for
commercial deliveries. The ground residential charge increased
$0.05 to $1.05 over the commercial ground rate, and we increased
rates for UPS Next Day Air, UPS Next Day Air Saver, UPS 2nd Day
Air, and 3 Day Select an average of 3.7%. The surcharge for UPS
Next Day Air Early A.M. increased from $25.00 to $27.50. Rates
for international shipments originating in the U.S. (UPS
Worldwide Express, UPS Worldwide Express Plus, UPS Worldwide
Expedited and UPS Standard service) increased by 2.9%. Rate
changes for shipments originating outside the U.S. were made
throughout 2001 and varied by geographic market. In addition,
all package rates during 2001, until December 10th,
included a 1.25% fuel surcharge. Effective December 10,
2001, we implemented an index-based surcharge, which initially
reduced the surcharge rate to 0.75% and resets on a monthly
basis. Approximately $348 million in revenue was recorded
in 2001 as a result of our fuel surcharge, an increase of
$218 million over the prior year.

U.S. domestic package operating profit decreased
by $309 million due primarily to the decline in volume
discussed previously. This decrease was mitigated by cost
control initiatives implemented during the year. These
initiatives focused on many of our semi-variable costs and
included curtailing non-union hiring, eliminating new consulting
projects, reevaluating all capital expenditures and information
technology projects in process, plus a variety of other items.

International
Package Operations

compared to 2001

For the year ended December 31, 2002,
international package revenue improved $435 million, or
10.2% (8.1% currency-adjusted), due primarily to volume growth
for our export products and strong revenue per piece
improvements. This volume growth was driven primarily by the
Europe region, which had an increase in average daily export
volume of 13.6%, and the Asia-Pacific region, which had an
increase in average daily export volume of 17.1%. In total,
international package average daily volume increased 0.7% and
average revenue per piece increased 9.1% (6.8%
currency-adjusted).

The improvement in operating profit for our
international package operations was $197 million for the
year. In 2002, operating profit benefited from an
$11 million reduction to expense related to the change in
vacation policy. Excluding the effect of this item, operating
profit increased by $186 million, or 148.8% for the year,
$22 million of which was due to currency fluctuations. The
increase in operating profit was primarily due to export volume
growth of 8.6% and a strong increase in revenue per piece. In
addition, the shutdown of the U.S. West Coast ports during the
latter part of 2002 had a beneficial impact on our international
package results. In 2002, this segment benefited by
$11 million from the elimination of goodwill amortization.
In 2001, operating profit benefited from a $46 million
credit to expense related to the Air Transportation Safety and
System Stabilization Act.

compared to 2000

The increase in international package revenue in
2001 was due primarily to an increase in cargo revenue and a
10.9% volume growth for our export products, offset by a decline
in the revenue per piece for these



products. The increase in cargo revenue resulted
primarily from increased volume, which was driven by the
integration of our Challenge Air operations in Latin America.
Our Europe region was a significant contributor to the export
volume increase. Excluding the impact of currency fluctuations,
average revenue per piece increased 1.7%. Overall average daily
package volume increased over 5% for international operations.

The decline in the operating profit of our
international package operations during 2001 resulted primarily
from increased expenses, particularly those expenses associated
with aircraft used in this segment (maintenance, rental and
fuel) as we continued to add airlift capabilities to further
expand our international presence. We recorded $11 million
of goodwill amortization in our international package segment in
both 2001 and 2000.

Non-Package
Operations

compared to 2001

Non-package revenue increased $589 million,
or 28.3%, during 2002. 20.4% of this revenue growth was due to
acquisitions and the remaining 7.9% was organic.

UPS Logistics Group revenue was up
$286 million or 38.8% for the year, of which approximately
half was due to acquisitions. UPS Freight Services revenue grew
$204 million, or 27.5%, primarily due to having a full year
of revenue from Fritz Companies Inc., which we acquired in May
2001. Revenue growth at UPS Freight Services was hindered by the
sale of the FedEx brokerage business in March 2002. Adjusting
for the effect of this sale, Freight Services would have
reported organic revenue growth of approximately 4% during 2002.

Non-package operating profit decreased by
$19 million, or 8.8%, for the year. Operating profit was
affected by a restructuring charge and related expenses of
$106 million primarily related to the integration of our
Freight Services and Logistics Group operations, and an $11
million reduction to expense related to a change in our vacation
policy. Excluding the impact of these items, non-package
operating profit increased by $76 million, or 35.0%. In
2002, this segment benefited from a $61 million reduction in
goodwill expense as a result of the elimination of goodwill
amortization. Non-package operating profit includes $112 million
(compared to $113 million in 2001) of intersegment profit,
with a corresponding amount of operating expense, which reduces
operating profit, in the U.S. domestic package segment.

compared to 2000

The increase in non-package revenue in 2001
resulted primarily from the impact of acquisitions, particularly
Fritz, which was included in our Freight Services unit.
Non-package revenue also increased due to the continued growth
of the UPS Logistics Group. The Logistics Group revenue increase
was primarily due to increases in our supply chain management
and service parts logistics offerings. Other non-package revenue
also increased as a result of acquisitions (First International
Bancorp and Mail Boxes Etc.), offset by a decrease in
third-party air operations revenue due to the discontinuation of
our charter passenger services.

The decrease in non-package operating profit was
partially due to the $49 million gain we recognized from the
sale of our UPS Truck Leasing subsidiary in the first quarter of
2000. The remaining decrease was due to start-up, integration
and operating costs for several subsidiaries that we were
developing or acquired, along with goodwill amortization expense
associated with acquisitions. During 2001, we recorded
$61 million of goodwill amortization in our non-package
segment, which was an increase of $33 million over 2000.
Non-package operating profit included $113 million
(compared to $101 million in 2000) of intersegment profit.

Operating
Expenses and Operating Margin

compared to 2001

Consolidated operating expenses increased by
$817 million, or 3.1%, for the year ended December 31,
2002. In 2002, operating expenses were affected by the
$106 million restructuring charge and related expenses in
our non-package segment, and the $197 million credit to
expense related to the change in our vacation policy. Excluding
the effect of these items, operating expenses increased by
$908 million, or 3.4%, for the year.



Excluding the $197 million credit to expense
related to the change in vacation policy, compensation and
benefits increased by $744 million, or 4.3%, for the year,
primarily due to increased costs associated with health and
retirement benefits. Other operating expenses increased by
$164 million, or 1.8%, excluding the $106 million
restructuring charge and related expenses.

The non-package segment accounted for
$513 million of the $908 million total increase in
operating expenses. This was principally due to acquisitions
that we completed during the first nine months of 2001. In 2002,
operating expenses benefited from the absence of
$72 million of expense related to the elimination of
goodwill amortization. In 2001, other operating expenses were
reduced by $74 million for compensation under the Air
Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act.

Adjusting for the effects of the restructuring
charge and related expenses and vacation policy change, our
operating margin, defined as operating profit as a percentage of
revenue, decreased from 13.1% during 2001 to 12.8% during 2002.
This decline is primarily due to a 90 basis point decline in the
operating margin for our U.S. domestic package segment, which
experienced a volume-driven decline in profit.

compared to 2000

In 2001, operating expenses increased by
$1.373 billion, or 5.5%, with compensation and benefits up
$851 million and other operating expenses up $522 million.
The 5.1% increase in compensation and benefits included a $101
million reduction in pension benefits expense. Depreciation and
amortization and other occupancy expenses (primarily rent and
utilities) accounted for over one-half of the 6.2% increase in
other operating expenses. Much of the increase in operating
expenses was related to expanding our capabilities and service
offerings for our non-package segment. Excluding the non-package
segment, operating expenses increased by 2.5% over 2000.
Depreciation and amortization expense included $72 million
of goodwill amortization, a $33 million increase from 2000.

Our adjusted operating margin declined from 15.3%
for 2000 to 13.1% for 2001. This decline continued the trend
that began in the fourth quarter of 2000 as the economy began to
weaken.

Investment
Income/Interest Expense

compared to 2001

The decrease in investment income of
$96 million for 2002 is primarily due to a combination of
lower interest rates and lower balances available for investment.

compared to 2000

The decrease in investment income of
$368 million for 2001 is due to two factors relating to
2000. First, in the first quarter of 2000, we recognized a
$241 million gain on investments held by our Strategic
Enterprise Fund in two companies that were acquired by other
companies. In addition, we earned income on the
$5.3 billion in net IPO proceeds available for investment
prior to the tender offer that occurred in early March 2000, and
the $1.2 billion in IPO proceeds that were not utilized for
the tender offer.



Net Income
and Earnings Per Share

compared to 2001

Net income for 2002 was $3.182 billion, an
increase of $783 million from $2.399 billion in 2001,
resulting in an increase in diluted earnings per share to $2.81
in 2002 from $2.10 in 2001. Adjusting for the non-recurring FAS
133 cumulative expense adjustment, net of tax, of
$26 million, our net income in 2001 would have been
$2.425 billion, or $2.12 per diluted share. In 2002, our
results were affected by the fourth quarter restructuring charge
and related expenses of $106 million, the non-recurring FAS
142 cumulative expense adjustment of $72 million, the
credit to compensation and benefits resulting from the change in
our vacation policy for non-union employees of
$197 million, and the credit related to the reversal of a
portion of the previously established tax assessment liability
of $1.023 billion. Excluding the impact of these
non-recurring items, our 2002 net income would have been
$2.422 billion, or $2.14 per diluted share (compared to
$2.12 in 2001).

compared to 2000

Net income for 2001 amounted to
$2.399 billion, or $2.10 per diluted share, compared to
$2.934 billion, or $2.50 per diluted share, for 2000. Our
2000 results reflected certain non-recurring items, which
include the gains on our Strategic Enterprise Fund investments
and the sale of our Truck Leasing subsidiary, offset partially
by a charge for retroactive costs associated with creating new
full-time jobs from existing part-time Teamster jobs. Our 2001
results reflect a FAS 133 cumulative expense adjustment, net of
tax, of $26 million. Excluding these non-recurring
transactions for each of these periods, adjusted net income for
2001 would have been $2.425 billion, a decrease of
$370 million from adjusted net income of
$2.795 billion for 2000. Adjusted diluted earnings per
share decreased from $2.38 in 2000 to $2.12 in 2001.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our primary source of liquidity is our cash flow
from operations. We maintain significant cash, cash equivalents,
marketable securities and short-term investments, amounting to
$3.014 billion at December 31, 2002.

As part of our continuing share repurchase
program, $1.0 billion was authorized for share repurchases
in February 2002, of which $705 million was still available
as of December 31, 2002.

We maintain two commercial paper programs under
which we are authorized to borrow up to $7.0 billion.
Approximately $1.036 billion was outstanding under these
programs as of December 31, 2002, all of which was
classified as a current liability. The average interest rate on
the amount outstanding at December 31, 2002 was 1.3%. In
addition, we maintain an extendible commercial notes program
under which we are authorized to borrow up to $500 million.
No amounts were outstanding under this program at
December 31, 2002.

We maintain two credit agreements with a
consortium of banks that provide revolving credit facilities of
$1.25 billion each, with one expiring on April 24, 2003 and
the other expiring on April 27, 2005. Interest on any
amounts we borrow under these facilities would be charged at
90-day LIBOR plus 15 basis points. There were no borrowings
under either of these agreements as of December 31, 2002.

We also maintain a $1.0 billion European
medium-term note program. Under this program, we may issue notes
from time to time, denominated in a variety of currencies. At
December 31, 2002, $1.0 billion was available under
this program.

We have a $2.0 billion shelf registration
statement under which we may issue debt securities in the U.S.
There was approximately $1.552 billion issued under this
shelf registration statement at December 31, 2002. As of
December 31, 2002, $910 million in notes have been
issued under the UPS Notes program. These notes have various
terms and maturities, all with fixed interest rates. The notes
are callable at various stated times after issuance, and
$345 million of the notes have been called since the
inception of the program. As of December 31, 2002,
$565 million in UPS Notes were outstanding.



On August 9, 1999, the United States Tax
Court held that we were liable for tax on income of Overseas
Partners Ltd. (“OPL”), a Bermuda company that had
reinsured excess value (“EV”) package insurance
purchased by our customers beginning in 1984, and that we were
liable for additional tax for the 1983 and 1984 tax years. The
Court held that for the 1984 tax year we were liable for taxes
of $31 million on income reported by OPL, penalties and
penalty interest of $93 million, and interest for a total
after-tax exposure estimated at approximately $246 million.

The IRS took similar positions to those advanced
in the Tax Court decision for tax years subsequent to 1984.
Based on the Tax Court decision, we estimated that our total
after-tax exposure for tax years 1984 through 1999 could have
been as high as $2.353 billion.

In our second quarter 1999 financial statements,
we recorded a tax assessment charge of $1.786 billion,
which included an amount for related state tax liabilities. The
charge included taxes of $915 million and interest of
$871 million. This assessment resulted in a tax benefit of
$344 million related to the interest component of the
assessment. As a result, our net charge to net income for the
tax assessment was $1.442 billion, increasing our total
after-tax reserve at that time with respect to these matters to
$1.672 billion. The tax benefit of deductible interest was
included in income taxes in 1999; however, since none of the
income on which this tax assessment was based was our income, we
did not classify the tax charge as income taxes.

We determined the size of our reserve with
respect to these matters in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
In 1999, we estimated our most likely liability based on the
initial Tax Court decision. In making this determination, we
concluded that, based on the Tax Court decision, it was more
likely that we would be required to pay taxes on income reported
by OPL and interest, but that it was not probable that we would
be required to pay any penalties and penalty interest. In our
prior estimation, if penalties and penalty interest ultimately
were determined to be payable, we would have had to record an
additional charge of up to $681 million.

Further, as a result of the unfavorable Tax Court
decision, and in order to stop the potential accrual of
additional interest that might ultimately have been determined
to be due to the IRS, on August 31, 1999 we paid $1.349
billion, and on August 8, 2000 paid an additional
$91 million, to the IRS related to these matters for the
1984 through 1994 tax years. We included the profit of the EV
insurance program, using the IRS’s methodology for
calculating these amounts, for both 1998 and 1999 in filings we
made with the IRS in 1999. In February 2000, we paid
$339 million to the IRS related to these matters for the
1995 through 1997 tax years.

On June 20, 2001, the United States Court of
Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit reversed the Tax Court’s
decision. On September 13, 2001, the Eleventh Circuit
denied the IRS’s petition to have the appeal reheard en
banc. The IRS did not appeal the case to the U.S. Supreme Court
and, consequently, the case was remanded to the Tax Court to
consider alternative arguments raised by the parties.

In January 2003, we and the IRS finalized
settlement of all outstanding tax issues related to EV package
insurance. Under the settlement of these issues, we agreed to
adjustments that will result in income tax due of approximately
$562 million, additions to tax of $60 million and
related interest. The amount due to the IRS as a result of the
settlement is less than amounts we previously had accrued (as
described above). As a result of the settlement, we recorded
income, before taxes, of $1.023 billion ($776 million
after tax) during the fourth quarter of 2002. The refunds and
credits associated with this settlement are expected to occur
over the next several years.

The EV program that was the subject of the Tax
Court decision has been changed since September 1999. The
revised arrangement should eliminate the issues considered by
the Tax Court and the Eleventh Circuit related to OPL.

The IRS has proposed adjustments, unrelated to
the EV package insurance matters discussed above, regarding the
allowance of deductions and certain losses, the characterization
of expenses as capital rather than ordinary, the treatment of
certain income, and our entitlement to the investment tax credit
and the research tax credit in the 1985 through 1990 tax years.
The proposed adjustments would result in $10 million of
additional income tax expense. The IRS has also issued a report
taking a similar position with respect to



some of these issues for each of the years from
1991 through 1994. That report proposes adjustments that would
result in $50 million in additional income tax expense. In
November 2002, the IRS issued a report taking a similar position
with respect to some of these issues for each of the years from
1995 through 1998. That report proposes adjustments that would
result in $13 million in additional income tax expense. For
the 1985 through 1998 tax years, unpaid interest on these
adjustments through December 31, 2002 could aggregate up to
approximately $381 million, after the benefit of related
tax deductions. We expect that we will prevail on substantially
all of these issues. Specifically, we believe that our practice
of expensing the items that the IRS alleges should have been
capitalized is consistent with the practices of other industry
participants. The IRS may take similar positions with respect to
some of these issues for each of the years 1999 through 2002.
The IRS’s proposed adjustments include penalties and
penalty interest. We believe that the possibility that such
penalties and penalty interest will be sustained is remote. We
believe that the eventual resolution of these issues will not
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or liquidity.

We are named as a defendant in 23 pending
lawsuits that seek to hold us liable for the collection of
premiums for EV insurance in connection with package shipments
since 1984. Based on state and federal tort, contract and
statutory claims, these cases generally claim that we failed to
remit collected EV premiums to an independent insurer; we failed
to provide promised EV insurance; we acted as an insurer without
complying with state insurance laws and regulations; and the
price for EV insurance was excessive.

These actions were filed after the August 9,
1999 Tax Court decision. As discussed above, on June 20,
2001, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit ruled
in our favor and reversed the Tax Court decision.

These 23 cases have been consolidated for
pre-trial purposes in a multi-district litigation proceeding
(“MDL Proceeding”) in federal court in New York. The
Court has ruled on the motions to dismiss, granting our motions
with respect to all of the plaintiffs’ tort claims and all
of their breach of contract claims prior to August 26,
1994. Claims asserted under specific federal statutes, and
breach of contract claims commencing on August 26, 1994,
may proceed at this time. We intend to continue to seek
dismissal of these remaining claims.

The defendants in the MDL Proceeding, including
UPS, have stipulated to conditional certification of a plaintiff
class in most of the lawsuits challenging the EV insurance
program for our shippers. Class certification is a procedural
step that allows claims to be resolved at one time as to all
potential claimants; it does not depend on or reflect the merits
of the underlying claims. Defendants may move later to set aside
or modify the class certification.

The cases subject to the class certification
stipulation will proceed to a single trial before the federal
court presiding over the MDL Proceeding, instead of being
returned for trial to the numerous federal courts around the
country from which they were transferred. In addition,
plaintiffs in the five cases with pending motions to remand to
state court have withdrawn these motions.

In addition to the cases in which UPS is named as
a defendant, there also is an action,

Smith v. Mail Boxes
Etc.,

against Mail Boxes Etc. and its franchisees relating
to UPS EV insurance purchased through Mail Boxes Etc. centers.
This case also has been consolidated into the MDL Proceeding.
The plaintiff has moved to have the case remanded back to state
court.

We believe that the allegations in these cases
have no merit and intend to continue to defend them vigorously.
The ultimate resolution of these cases cannot presently be
determined.

In addition, we are a defendant in various other
lawsuits that arose in the normal course of business. We believe
that the eventual resolution of these cases will not have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or liquidity.

Due to the events of September 11, 2001,
increased security requirements for air carriers may be
forthcoming; however, we do not anticipate that such measures
will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or liquidity. In addition, our insurance
premiums have risen and we have taken several actions, including
self-insuring certain risks, to mitigate the expense increase.



As of December 31, 2002, we had
approximately 230,000 employees (64% of our total employees)
employed under a national master agreement and various
supplemental agreements with local unions affiliated with the
Teamsters. On October 7, 2002, the Teamsters ratified a new
master agreement with UPS that runs through July 31, 2008.
The new agreement is retroactive to August 1, 2002. The
majority of our pilots are employed under a collective
bargaining agreement with the Independent Pilots Association,
which becomes amendable January 1, 2004. Our airline
mechanics are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with
Teamsters Local 2727, which becomes amendable on
November 1, 2006. In addition, the majority of our ground
mechanics who are not employed under agreements with the
Teamsters are employed under collective bargaining agreements
with the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers. These agreements run through July 31, 2009.

In November 2002, we announced rate increases,
which took effect on January 6, 2003, that are in line with
previous rate increases. We increased rates for standard ground
shipments an average of 3.9% for commercial deliveries. The
ground residential surcharge increased $0.05 to $1.15 over the
commercial ground rate. The additional delivery area surcharge
added to residential deliveries in certain less accessible areas
increased $0.25 to $1.75. Rates for UPS Hundredweight increased
5.9%. In addition, we increased rates for UPS Next Day Air an
average of 3.4% and increased rates for deferred services by
4.5%. Rates for international shipments originating in the U.S.
(UPS Worldwide Express, UPS Worldwide Express Plus, UPS
Worldwide Expedited and UPS International Standard service)
increased an average of 3.9%. Rate changes for shipments
originating outside the U.S. generally are made throughout the
year and vary by geographic market. The index-based fuel
surcharge remains in effect, and currently is 1.50%.

We believe that funds from operations and
borrowing programs will provide adequate sources of liquidity
and capital resources to meet our expected long-term needs for
the operation of our business, including anticipated capital
expenditures such as commitments for aircraft purchases, through
2009.

Following is a summary of capital expenditures
(in millions):

We anticipate capital expenditures of
approximately $2.0 billion in 2003. These expenditures will
provide for replacement of existing capacity and anticipated
future growth and include the projected cost of capitalized
software.

A discussion of our anticipated future payments
under operating leases, capital leases, debt obligations, and
purchase commitments is provided in Note 8 to the consolidated
financial statements. A discussion of our unfunded lending
commitments is provided in Note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements.

Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk from changes in
certain commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates,
interest rates, and equity prices. All of these market risks
arise in the normal course of business, as we do not engage in
speculative trading activities. In order to manage the risk
arising from these exposures, we utilize a variety of foreign
exchange, interest rate, equity and commodity forward contracts,
options, and swaps.

The following analysis provides quantitative
information regarding our exposure to commodity price risk,
foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk, and equity
price risk. We utilize valuation models to evaluate the
sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments with
exposure to market risk that assume instantaneous, parallel
shifts in exchange rates, interest rate yield curves, and
commodity and equity prices. For options and instruments with
non-linear returns, models appropriate to the instrument are
utilized to



determine the impact of market shifts. There are
certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analyses
presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates
change in a parallel fashion and that interest rates change
instantaneously. In addition, the analyses are unable to reflect
the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the
market shifts modeled.

A discussion of our accounting policies for
derivative instruments and further disclosures are provided in
Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

Commodity Price Risk

We are exposed to an increase in the prices of
refined fuels, principally jet-A, diesel, and unleaded gasoline,
which are used in the transportation of packages. Additionally,
we are exposed to an increase in the prices of other energy
products, primarily natural gas and electricity, used in our
operating facilities throughout the world. We use a combination
of options, swaps, and futures contracts to provide some
protection from rising fuel and energy prices. These derivative
instruments generally cover forecasted fuel and energy
consumption for periods up to one year. The net fair value of
such contracts subject to price risk, excluding the underlying
exposures, as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 was an asset
(liability) of $34 and $(27) million, respectively. The
potential loss in the fair value of these derivative contracts,
assuming a hypothetical 10% change in the underlying commodity
price, would be approximately $38 million at
December 31, 2002. This amount excludes the offsetting
impact of the price risk inherent in the physical purchase of
the underlying commodities.

Foreign Currency Exchange
    Risk

We have foreign currency risks related to our
revenue, operating expenses, and financing transactions in
currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate.
We are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in
functional currency values of our foreign currency-denominated
assets, liabilities, and cash flows. Our most significant
foreign currency exposures relate to the Euro and the British
Pound Sterling. We use a combination of purchased and written
options and forward contracts to hedge cash flow currency
exposures. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the net fair
value of the hedging instruments described above was an asset
(liability) of approximately $(3) and $4 million,
respectively. The potential loss in fair value for such
instruments from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in quoted
foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately
$42 million at December 31, 2002. This sensitivity
analysis assumes a parallel shift in the foreign currency
exchange rates. Exchange rates rarely move in the same
direction. The assumption that exchange rates change in a
parallel fashion may overstate the impact of changing exchange
rates on assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign
currency.

Interest Rate Risk

As described in Note 8 to the consolidated
financial statements, we have various debt instruments,
including debt associated with capital leases, that are issued
at fixed rates of interest. Such financial instruments are
exposed to fluctuations in fair value resulting from changes in
market interest rates. The fair value of our total long-term
debt, including current maturities, at December 31, 2002
and 2001 was $4.926 and $5.338 billion, respectively. The
potential decrease in fair value resulting from a hypothetical
100 basis point increase in interest rates would be
approximately $264 million at December 31, 2002.

We use a combination of derivative instruments,
including interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest rate
swaps, as part of our program to manage the fixed and floating
interest rate mix of our total debt portfolio and related
overall cost of borrowing. These swaps are entered into
concurrently with the issuance of the debt that they are
intended to modify, and the notional amount, interest payment,
and maturity dates of the swaps match the terms of the
associated debt. Interest rate swaps allow us to maintain a
target range of floating rate debt. The net fair value of our
interest rate swaps at December 31, 2002 and 2001 was an asset
(liability) of $(62) and $(74) million, respectively.
The potential decrease in fair value resulting from a
hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would be
approximately $37 million at December 31, 2002.



As described in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements, we have certain investments in securities
that are purchased at fixed rates of interest. At
December 31, 2002 and 2001, the fair value of our
investments in debt securities was $481 and $691 million,
respectively. The potential decrease in fair value resulting
from a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates
would be approximately $7 million at December 31, 2002.

Additionally, as described in Note 3 to the
consolidated financial statements, we hold certain finance
receivables, primarily commercial loans and finance leases, at
fixed rates of interest. These assets are exposed to
fluctuations in fair value resulting from changes in market
interest rates. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the fair
value of our investments in finance receivables was
$1.492 billion and $982 million, respectively. The
potential decrease in fair value resulting from a hypothetical
100 basis point increase in interest rates would be
approximately $5 million at December 31, 2002.

Equity Price Risk

We hold investments in various equity securities
that are subject to price risk, and for certain of these
securities, we utilize options to hedge this price risk. At
December 31, 2002 and 2001, the fair value of such
investments was $322 and $382 million, respectively. The
potential loss in the fair value of such investments, assuming a
10% decline in equity prices net of the offsetting impact of any
hedges, would be approximately $10 million.

Credit Risk

The forward contracts, swaps, and options
previously discussed contain an element of risk that the
counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the
agreements. However, we minimize such risk exposures for these
instruments by limiting the counterparties to large banks and
financial institutions that meet established credit guidelines.
We do not expect to incur any losses as a result of counterparty
default.

Future Accounting Changes

In June 2002, the FASB issued Statement
No. 146 “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities” (“FAS 146”). FAS 146
provides guidance on the recognition and measurement of
liabilities associated with exit or disposal activities and
requires that such liabilities be recognized when incurred. This
statement is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated
on or after January 1, 2003.

As discussed in Note 17, we implemented a
restructuring program involving the integration of our Freight
Services and Logistics Group operations in the fourth quarter of
2002. As this restructuring program was initiated in 2002, we
accounted for this restructuring program using the existing
guidance in EITF 94-3 “Liability Recognition for Certain
Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an
Activity (Including Certain Costs Incurred in a
Restructuring)”. Therefore, the adoption of FAS 146 on
January 1, 2003 had no effect on our results of operations
or financial condition. In the fourth quarter of 2002, we
recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge and related expenses in
the amount of $106 million, which is classified in other
operating expenses.

In 2003, we plan to adopt the fair value
measurement provisions of FASB Statement No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“FAS
123”), which is considered the preferable accounting method
for stock-based employee compensation. Under FAS 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation — Transition
and Disclosure”, we have elected to adopt the measurement
provisions of FAS 123 using the prospective method. Under
this approach, all future employee stock option grants and other
stock-based compensation will be expensed to compensation and
benefits over the vesting period based on the fair value at the
date the stock-based compensation is granted. We will continue
to provide pro forma income and earnings per share information
related to prior awards. The expensing of stock-based
compensation is expected to reduce diluted earnings per share by
approximately $0.02 in 2003. By 2006, we expect to realize the
full impact of adopting FAS 123, and estimate that diluted
earnings per share will be reduced by approximately $0.08 in
that year.



In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation
No. 45 “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others” (“FIN 45”). FIN 45
requires that a liability be recognized at fair value at the
inception of certain guarantees for the obligations undertaken
by the guarantor. FIN 45 also requires additional disclosures
for certain guarantee contracts. The disclosure provisions of
FIN 45 are effective for financial statements ending after
December 15, 2002, while the recognition and initial
measurement provisions are applicable on a prospective basis to
guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. We
are currently evaluating the impact of the recognition and
measurement provisions of FIN 45 on our financial statements.

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation
No. 46 “Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities” (“FIN 46”). FIN 46 provides guidance on
the identification of variable interest entities, and the
assessment of a company’s interests in a variable interest
entity to determine whether consolidation is appropriate. FIN 46
requires the consolidation of a variable interest entity by the
primary beneficiary if the entity does not effectively disperse
risks among the parties involved. FIN 46 applies immediately to
variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003,
and is effective for periods beginning after June 15, 2003
for existing variable interest entities. As we have no material
exposures to special purpose entities or other off-balance sheet
arrangements, we anticipate that the effects of adopting FIN 46
will not be material to our results of operations or financial
condition.

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of our financial
condition and results of operations are based on our
consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. As indicated in Note 1 to our
consolidated financial statements, the amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in our financial
statements are affected by estimates and judgments that are
necessary to comply with generally accepted accounting
principles. We base our estimates on prior experience and other
assumptions that we consider reasonable to our circumstances.
Actual results could differ from our estimates, which would
affect the related amounts reported in our financial statements.
While estimates and judgments are applied in arriving at many
reported amounts, we believe that the following matters may
involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.

Contingencies

As discussed in Note 10 to our consolidated
financial statements, we are involved in various legal
proceedings and contingencies. We have recorded liabilities for
these matters in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 5, “Accounting for
Contingencies” (“FAS 5”). FAS 5
requires a liability to be recorded based on our estimate of the
probable cost of the resolution of a contingency. The actual
resolution of these contingencies may differ from our estimates.
If a contingency is settled for an amount greater than our
estimate, a future charge to income would result. Likewise, if a
contingency is settled for an amount that is less than our
estimate, a future credit to income would result.

Goodwill
Impairment

The Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Statement No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets,” (“FAS 142”) in June 2001. As a
result of the issuance of this new standard, goodwill is no
longer amortized, but is subjected to annual impairment testing.
Goodwill impairment testing requires that we estimate the fair
value of our goodwill and compare that estimate to the amount of
goodwill recorded on our balance sheet. The estimation of fair
value requires that we make judgments concerning future cash
flows and appropriate discount rates. Our estimate of the fair
value of goodwill could change over time based on a variety of
factors, including the actual operating performance of the
underlying reporting units. Upon adoption of FAS 142, we
recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $72 million ($0.06
per diluted share), as of January 1, 2002, related to our
Mail Technologies business. The primary factor resulting in the
impairment charge was the lower than anticipated growth
experienced in the expedited mail delivery business. As of
December 31, 2002, our recorded goodwill was
$1.070 billion.



Self-Insurance
Accruals

We self-insure estimated costs associated with
workers’ compensation claims, automotive liability, and
general business liabilities, up to certain limits. Insurance
reserves are established for estimates of the loss that we will
ultimately incur on reported claims, as well as estimates of
claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. The
recorded levels of these reserves are determined by outside
actuaries, who incorporate historical loss experience and
judgments about the present and expected levels of cost per
claim. Trends in actual experience are a significant factor in
the determination of such reserves. We believe our estimated
reserves for such claims are adequate, however actual experience
in claim frequency and/or severity could materially differ from
our estimates and affect our results of operations.

Pension and
Postretirement Medical Benefits

The Company’s pension and other
postretirement benefit costs are calculated using various
actuarial assumptions and methodologies as prescribed by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87,
“Employers’ Accounting for Pensions” and
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106,
“Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other than Pensions.” These assumptions include discount
rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, rate of
compensation increases, expected return on plan assets,
mortality rates, and other factors. Actual results that differ
from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future
periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense
and recorded obligation in such future periods. We believe that
the assumptions utilized in recording the obligations under our
plans are reasonable based on input from our outside actuaries
and information as to historical experience and performance.
Differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may
affect our pension and other postretirement obligations and
future expense. The impact of decreasing the expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets to 9.21% and the decrease in the
discount rate to 6.75%, combined with other factors, will
increase our pension plan expense by approximately
$135 million in 2003.

Financial
Instruments

As discussed in Notes 2, 3, 8, and 16 to our
consolidated financial statements, and in the “Market
Risk” section of this report, we hold and issue financial
instruments that contain elements of market risk. Certain of
these financial instruments are required to be recorded at fair
value. Fair values are based on listed market prices, when such
prices are available. To the extent that listed market prices
are not available, fair value is determined based on other
relevant factors, including dealer price quotations. Certain
financial instruments, including over-the-counter derivative
instruments, are valued using pricing models that consider,
among other factors, contractual and market prices,
correlations, time value, credit spreads and yield curve
volatility factors. Changes in the fixed income, equity, foreign
exchange and commodity markets will impact our estimates of fair
value in the future, potentially affecting our results of
operations.

Forward-Looking Statements

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,”
“Liquidity and Capital Resources” and other parts of
this report contain “forward-looking” statements about
matters that inherently are difficult to predict. These
statements include statements regarding our intent, belief and
current expectations about our strategic direction, prospects
and future results. We have described some of the important
factors that affect these statements as we discussed each
subject. Forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties, and certain factors may cause actual results to
differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
statements.

Risk Factors

The following are some of the factors that could
cause our actual results to differ materially from the expected
results described in our forward-looking statements:

•

The effect of general economic and other
    conditions in the markets in which we operate, both in the
    United States and internationally. Our operations in
    international markets also are affected by currency exchange and
    inflation risks.



Item 7A.

Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Information about market risk can be found in
Item 7 of this report under the caption “Market
Risk.”

Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

Our financial statements are filed together with
this report. See the Index to Financial Statements and Financial
Statement Schedules on page F-1 for a list of the financial
statements filed together with this report. Supplementary data
appear in Note 19 to our financial statements.

Item 9.

Changes
in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information about our directors is presented
under the caption “Election of Directors” in our
definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners
to be held on May 8, 2003 and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Information about our executive officers can be
found in Part I, Item 1A, of this report under the caption
“Executive Officers of the Registrant” in accordance
with Instruction 3 of Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K
and General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K.

Information about our compliance with
Section 16 of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is
presented under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on
May 8, 2003 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

Information about executive compensation is
presented under the caption “Compensation of Executive
Officers and Directors,” excluding the information under
the caption “Report of the Compensation



Committee,” in our definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on
May 8, 2003 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item  12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters

Information about security ownership is presented
under the caption “Beneficial Ownership of Common
Stock” in our definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting of Shareowners to be held on May 8, 2003 and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Information about our equity compensation plans
is presented under the caption “Equity Compensation
Plans” in our definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting of Shareowners to be held on May 8, 2003 and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

None.

Item 14.

Controls
and Procedures

During the 90-day period prior to the filing date
of this report, management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness
of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures. Based upon, and as of the date of, that evaluation,
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were
effective, in all material respects, to ensure that information
required to be disclosed in the reports we file and submit under
the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
as and when required.

There have been no significant changes in our
internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
affect internal controls subsequent to the date we carried out
this evaluation. There were no significant deficiencies or
material weaknesses identified in the evaluation and therefore,
no corrective actions were taken.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
Form 8-K

(a) 1.

Financial Statements.

See the Index to Financial Statements on page F-1
for a list of the financial statements filed with this report.

2.

Financial Statement Schedules.

None.

3.

List of Exhibits.

See the Exhibit Index for a list of the
exhibits incorporated by reference into or filed with this
report.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K.

None.

(c)

Exhibits required by Item 601 of
Regulation S-K.

See the Exhibit Index for a list of the
exhibits incorporated by reference into or filed with this
report.

(d)

Financial Statement Schedules.

None.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, United Parcel
Service, Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC.

(REGISTRANT)

By:

/s/ MICHAEL L. ESKEW

Michael L. Eskew

Chairman and

Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 6, 2003

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.





CERTIFICATIONS

I, Michael L. Eskew, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
Form 10-K of United Parcel Service, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this
annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4. The registrant’s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a. designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b. evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosures controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c. presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5. The registrant’s other certifying
officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant’s board of directors:

a. all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b. any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6. The registrant’s other certifying
officer and I have indicated in this annual report whether or
not there were significant changes in internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
and material weaknesses.

Date: March 6, 2003

/s/ MICHAEL L. ESKEW

Michael L. Eskew

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer



I, D. Scott Davis, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
Form 10-K of United Parcel Service, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this
annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4. The registrant’s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a. designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b. evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosures controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c. presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5. The registrant’s other certifying
officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant’s board of directors:

a. all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b. any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6. The registrant’s other certifying
officer and I have indicated in this annual report whether or
not there were significant changes in internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
and material weaknesses.

Date: March 6, 2003

/s/ D. SCOTT DAVIS

D. Scott Davis

Chief Financial Officer



UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC.

AND SUBSIDIARIES

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

Item 8.

Financial
Statements

F-1


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

Board of Directors and Shareowners

United Parcel Service, Inc.

Atlanta, Georgia

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of United Parcel Service, Inc. and its
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the
related consolidated statements of income, shareowners’
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2002. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of United Parcel Service, Inc. and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2002 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.

As described in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” effective
January 1, 2001, and Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets,” effective January 1, 2002.

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Atlanta, Georgia

January 27, 2003

F-2


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-3


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-4


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED SHAREOWNERS’
EQUITY

F-5


See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

STATEMENTS OF CONSOLIDATED CASH
FLOWS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-7


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Note 1.     Summary
of Accounting Policies

Basis of
Financial Statements and Business Activities

The accompanying financial statements include the
accounts of United Parcel Service, Inc., and all of its
consolidated subsidiaries (collectively “UPS” or the
“Company”). All intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated.

UPS concentrates its operations in the field of
transportation services, primarily domestic and international
letter and package delivery. Through our non-package
subsidiaries, we are also a global provider of specialized
transportation, logistics, and financial services.

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue
Recognition

U.S. Domestic and International Package
Operations

— Revenue is
recognized upon delivery of a letter or package.

UPS Logistics Group and UPS Freight
Services

— Revenue is
recognized net of the expense related to the third party
transportation of freight at the time the services are
performed. Material management and distribution revenue is
recognized upon performance of the service provided. Customs
brokerage revenue is recognized upon completing documents
necessary for customs entry purposes.

UPS
Capital

— Income on loans
and direct finance leases is recognized on the interest method.
Accrual of interest income is suspended at the earlier of the
time at which collection of an account becomes doubtful or the
account becomes 90 days delinquent. Income on operating
leases is recognized on the straight-line method over the terms
of the underlying leases.

Cash and Cash
Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly
liquid investments (including investments in debt, auction rate
securities, and other money market instruments of
$1.780 billion and $331 million at December 31,
2002 and 2001, respectively) that are readily convertible into
cash. The carrying amount approximates fair value because of the
short-term maturity of these instruments.

Marketable
Securities and Short-Term Investments

Marketable securities are classified as
available-for-sale and are carried at fair value, with related
unrealized gains and losses reported, net of tax, as other
comprehensive income (“OCI”), a separate component of
shareowners’ equity. The amortized cost of debt securities
is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of
discounts to maturity. Such amortization and accretion is
included in investment income, along with interest and
dividends. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific
identification method; realized gains and losses resulting from
such sales are included in investment income.

Investment securities are reviewed for impairment
in accordance with FASB Statement No. 115 “Accounting
for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities”.
Impairment of investment securities results in a charge to
income when a market decline below cost is other than temporary.

F-8


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Property,
Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are carried at
cost. Depreciation and amortization are provided by the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
assets, which are as follows: Vehicles — 9 years;
Aircraft — 12 to 20 years; Buildings —
20 to 40 years; Leasehold Improvements — lives of
leases; Plant Equipment — 5 to 8 1/3 years;
Technology Equipment (including capitalized
software) — 3 to 5 years. The costs of major
airframe and engine overhauls, as well as routine maintenance
and repairs, are charged to expense as incurred.

Interest incurred during the construction period
of certain property, plant and equipment is capitalized until
the underlying assets are placed in service, at which time
amortization of the capitalized interest begins, straight-line,
over the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
Capitalized interest was $25, $47, and $26 million for
2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets

On January 1, 2002, we adopted Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Statement
No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets” (“FAS 144”). Under FAS 144, we
review long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances
indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable
based on the undiscounted future cash flows of the asset. If the
carrying amount of the asset is determined not to be
recoverable, a write-down to fair value is recorded. The effects
of adopting FAS 144 were immaterial to our results of operations.

Goodwill and
Intangible Assets

Costs of purchased businesses in excess of net
assets acquired (goodwill), and intangible assets are accounted
for under the provisions of FASB Statement No. 142
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“FAS
142”). Upon adoption of FAS 142 on January 1, 2002, we
were required to test all existing goodwill for impairment as of
that date, and at least annually thereafter, unless changes in
circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred sooner.
We are required to test goodwill on a “reporting unit”
basis. A reporting unit is the operating segment unless, for
businesses within that operating segment, discrete financial
information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management, in
which case such a component business is the reporting unit.

A fair value approach is used to test goodwill
for impairment. An impairment charge is recognized for the
amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds
its fair value. Fair values are established using discounted
cash flows. When available and as appropriate, comparative
market multiples were used to corroborate discounted cash flow
results.

We recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge
of $72 million ($0.06 per diluted share), as of
January 1, 2002, related to our Mail Technologies business.
This charge is reported as a cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle and resulted in a restatement of our first
quarter 2002 quarterly financial statements (see Note 19). The
primary factor resulting in the impairment charge was the lower
than anticipated growth experienced in the expedited mail
delivery business. In conjunction with our annual test of
goodwill, we recorded an additional impairment charge of
$2 million, resulting in total goodwill impairment of
$74 million for 2002.

Income
Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for under FASB
Statement No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes”
(”FAS 109”). FAS 109 is an asset and liability
approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets
and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of
events that have been recognized in our financial statements or
tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, FAS 109
generally considers all expected

F-9


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

future events other than proposed changes in the
tax law or rates. Valuation allowances are provided if it is
more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be
realized.

Stock-Based
Compensation

We have adopted the disclosure provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” (“FAS 123”). Under FAS 123,
companies have the option to measure compensation costs for
stock options using the intrinsic value method prescribed by
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB
25”). Under APB 25, compensation expense is generally not
recognized when both the exercise price is the same as the
market price and the number of shares to be issued is set on the
date the employee stock option is granted. Since our employee
stock options are granted on this basis and we have chosen to
use the intrinsic value method, we do not recognize compensation
expense for stock option grants. We do, however, include in Note
11 pro forma disclosures of net income and earnings per share as
if the fair value method of accounting had been applied.

In 2003, we plan to adopt the fair value
measurement provisions of FAS 123, which is considered the
preferable accounting method for stock-based employee
compensation. Under FAS 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure”, we
have elected to adopt the measurement provisions of FAS 123
using the prospective method. Under this approach, all future
employee stock option grants and other stock-based compensation
will be expensed to compensation and benefits over the vesting
period based on the fair value at the date the stock-based
compensation is granted. We will continue to provide pro forma
net income and earnings per share information related to prior
awards.

Derivative
Instruments

Effective January 1, 2001, we adopted FASB
Statement No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities” (“FAS 133”),
as amended by Statements No. 137 and No. 138. FAS 133,
as amended, requires all financial derivative instruments to be
recorded on our balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives not
designated as hedges must be adjusted to fair value through
income. If a derivative is designated as a hedge, depending on
the nature of the hedge, changes in its fair value that are
considered to be effective, as defined, either offset the change
in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities, or firm
commitments through income, or are recorded in OCI until the
hedged item is recorded in income. Any portion of a change in a
derivative’s fair value that is considered to be
ineffective, or is excluded from the measurement of
effectiveness, is recorded immediately in income.

At January 1, 2001, our financial statements
were adjusted to record a cumulative effect of adopting FAS 133,
as follows (in millions, except per share amounts):

(a)

For income effect, amount shown is net of
    adjustment to hedged items.

The cumulative effect on income resulted
primarily from marking to market the time value of option
contracts used in commodity and foreign currency cash flow
hedging. The cumulative effect on OCI resulted primarily from
marking to market swap contracts used as cash flow hedges of
anticipated foreign currency cash flows and anticipated
purchases of energy products.

F-10


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

New
Accounting Pronouncements

In June 2002, the FASB issued Statement
No. 146 “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities” (“FAS 146”). FAS 146
provides guidance on the recognition and measurement of
liabilities associated with exit or disposal activities and
requires that such liabilities be recognized when incurred. This
statement is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated
on or after January 1, 2003.

As discussed in Note 17, we implemented a
restructuring program involving the business unit integration of
our Freight Services and Logistics Group operations in the
fourth quarter of 2002. As this restructuring program was
initiated in 2002, we accounted for this restructuring program
using the existing guidance in EITF 94-3 “Liability
Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other
Costs to Exit an Activity (Including Certain Costs Incurred in a
Restructuring)”. Therefore, the adoption of FAS 146 on
January 1, 2003 had no effect on our results of operations
or financial condition. In the fourth quarter of 2002, we
recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge and related expenses in
the amount of $106 million, which is classified in other
operating expenses.

In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation
No. 45 “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others” (“FIN 45”). FIN 45
requires that a liability be recognized at fair value at the
inception of certain guarantees for the obligations undertaken
by the guarantor. FIN 45 also requires additional disclosures
for certain guarantee contracts. The disclosure provisions of
FIN 45 are effective for financial statements ending after
December 15, 2002, while the recognition and initial
measurement provisions are applicable on a prospective basis to
guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. We
are currently evaluating the impact of the recognition and
measurement provisions of FIN 45 on our financial statements.

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation
No. 46 “Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities” (“FIN 46”). FIN 46 provides guidance on
the identification of variable interest entities, and the
assessment of a company’s interests in a variable interest
entity to determine whether consolidation is appropriate. FIN 46
requires the consolidation of a variable interest entity by the
primary beneficiary if the entity does not effectively disperse
risks among the parties involved. FIN 46 applies immediately to
variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003,
and is effective for periods beginning after June 15, 2003
for existing variable interest entities. As we have no material
exposures to special purpose entities or other off-balance sheet
arrangements, we anticipate that the effects of adopting FIN 46
will not be material to our results of operations or financial
condition.

F-11


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Changes in
Presentation

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified
to conform to the current year presentation.

Note 2.     Marketable
Securities and Short-Term Investments

The following is a summary of marketable
securities and short-term investments at December 31, 2002
and 2001 (in millions):

The gross realized gains on sales of marketable
securities totaled $11, $34, and $69 million in 2002, 2001,
and 2000, respectively. The gross realized losses totaled $10,
$7, and $35 million in 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.
Impairment losses recognized on marketable securities and
short-term investments totaled $5, $0, and $33 million
during 2002, 2001, and 2000 respectively.

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of
marketable securities and short-term investments at
December 31, 2002, by contractual maturity, are shown below
(in millions). Actual maturities may differ from contractual
maturities because the issuers of the securities may have the
right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.

F-12


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 3.     Finance
Receivables

The following is a summary of finance receivables
at December 31, 2002 and 2001 (in millions):

Outstanding receivable balances at
December 31, 2002 and 2001 are net of unearned income of
$35 and $11 million, respectively. When we
“factor” (i.e. purchase) a customer invoice from a
client, we record the customer receivable as an asset and also
establish a liability for the funds due to the client, which is
recorded in accounts payable on the consolidated balance sheet.
The following is a reconciliation of receivable factoring
balances at December 31, 2002 and 2001 (in millions):

Non-earning finance receivables were $41 and
$24 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. The following is a rollforward of the allowance
for credit losses on finance receivables (in millions):

The carrying value of finance receivables at
December 31, 2002, by contractual maturity, is shown below
(in millions). Actual maturities may differ from contractual
maturities because some borrowers have the right to prepay these
receivables without prepayment penalties.

Based on interest rates for financial instruments
with similar terms and maturities, the fair value of finance
receivables is approximately $1.492 billion and $982
million as of December 31, 2002 and 2001,

F-13


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

respectively. At December 31, 2002, we had
unfunded loan commitments totaling $778 million, consisting
of standby letters of credit of $48 million and other
unfunded lending commitments of $730 million.

Note 4.     Property,
Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment as of
December 31 consists of the following (in millions):

Note 5.     Employee
Benefit Plans

We maintain the following defined benefit pension
plans (the “Plans”): UPS Retirement Plan, UPS Excess
Coordinating Benefit Plan, and the UPS Pension Plan.

The UPS Retirement Plan is noncontributory and
includes substantially all eligible employees of participating
domestic subsidiaries who are not members of a collective
bargaining unit. The Plan provides for retirement benefits based
on average compensation levels earned by employees prior to
retirement. Benefits payable under this Plan are subject to
maximum compensation limits and the annual benefit limits for a
tax qualified defined benefit plan as prescribed by the Internal
Revenue Service.

The UPS Excess Coordinating Benefit Plan is a
non-qualified plan that provides benefits to participants in the
UPS Retirement Plan for amounts that exceed the benefit limits
described above.

The UPS Pension Plan is noncontributory and
includes certain eligible employees of participating domestic
subsidiaries and members of collective bargaining units that
elect to participate in the plan. The Plan provides for
retirement benefits based on service credits earned by employees
prior to retirement.

The UPS Retirement Plan and UPS Pension
Plans’ assets consist primarily of publicly traded
securities and include approximately 6.1 and 24.1 million
shares of UPS common stock at December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. Our funding policy is consistent with relevant
federal tax regulations. Accordingly, our contributions are
deductible for federal income tax purposes. Because the UPS
Excess Coordinating Benefit Plan is non-qualified for federal
income tax purposes, this plan is not funded.

We also sponsor postretirement medical plans that
provide health care benefits to our retirees who meet certain
eligibility requirements and who are not otherwise covered by
multi-employer plans. Generally, this includes employees with at
least 10 years of service who have reached age 55 and
employees who are eligible for postretirement medical benefits
from a Company-sponsored plan pursuant to collective bargaining
agreements. We have the right to modify or terminate certain of
these plans. In many cases, these benefits

F-14


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

have been provided to retirees on a
noncontributory basis; however, in certain cases, retirees are
required to contribute toward the cost of the coverage.

The following tables provide a reconciliation of
the changes in the plans’ benefit obligations and fair
value of assets, and a statement of funded status as of
September 30, with certain amounts included in the balance
sheet as of December 31 (in millions):

Because the UPS Excess Coordinating Plan is not
funded, the Company has recorded an additional minimum pension
liability for this plan of $88 million at December 31,
2002. This liability is included in the other credits and
non-current liabilities portion of Note 9. As an offset to this
liability, the Company recorded a $7 million intangible
asset, representing the net unrecognized prior service cost for
this plan at December 31, 2002, and the remaining
$50 million was recorded as a reduction of other
comprehensive income in Shareowners’ Equity (net of the tax
effect of $31 million). The unfunded accumulated benefit
obligation of the UPS Excess Coordinating Benefit Plan was
$121 million as of December 31, 2002.

F-15


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Net periodic benefit cost (benefit) for the
years ended December 31 included the following components
(in millions):

The significant assumptions used in the
measurement of our benefit obligations are as follows:

For 2003, we plan to decrease the expected
long-term rate of earnings on plan assets to 9.21%.

Future postretirement medical benefit costs were
forecasted assuming an initial annual increase of 9.00% for
pre-65 and post-65 medical costs, decreasing to 5.25% for pre-65
and post-65 by the year 2011 and with consistent annual
increases at those ultimate levels thereafter.

Assumed health care cost trends have a
significant effect on the amounts reported for the
postretirement medical plans. A one-percent change in assumed
health care cost trend rates would have the following effects
(in millions):

We also contribute to several multi-employer
pension plans for which the above disclosure information is not
determinable. Amounts charged to operations for pension
contributions to these multi-employer plans were
$1.028 billion, $977, and $897 million during 2002,
2001, and 2000, respectively.

We also contribute to several multi-employer
health and welfare plans that cover both active and retired
employees for which the above disclosure information is not
determinable. Amounts charged to operations for contributions to
multi-employer health and welfare plans were $604, $553, and
$501 million during 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

We also sponsor a defined contribution plan for
all employees not covered under collective bargaining
agreements. The Company matches, in shares of UPS common stock,
a portion of the participating employees’ contributions.
Matching contributions charged to expense were $79, $71, and
$61 million for 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

In the fourth quarter of 2002, our vacation
policy for non-union employees was amended to require that
vacation pay be earned ratably throughout the year. Previously,
an employee became vested in the full year of

F-16


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

vacation pay at the beginning of each year. As a
result of this policy change, a credit to compensation and
benefits of $197 million was taken in the fourth quarter to
reduce the vacation pay liability as of December 31, 2002.

Note 6.     Other
Assets

Other assets as of December 31 consist of
the following (in millions):

The following table indicates the allocation of
goodwill by reportable segment (in millions):

Goodwill in the non-package segment declined as a
result of the $72 million impairment charge recorded upon
the adoption of FAS 142 and the $2 million charge resulting
from our annual impairment testing (see Note 1), partially
offset by the additions from the resolution of purchase price
contingencies and other purchase price adjustments for
acquisitions closed in 2001.

F-17


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangibles ceased upon the implementation of FAS 142 on
January 1, 2002. The following table indicates the impact
on net income and earnings per share if the non-amortization
provisions of FAS 142 had been applied beginning January 1,
2000 (in millions, except per share amounts).

The following is a summary of intangible assets
at December 31, 2002 and 2001 (in millions):

Expected amortization of definite-lived
intangibles for the next five years is as follows (in millions):
2003 — $8, 2004 — $8, 2005 — $7,
2006 — $6, 2007 — $5. As of
December 31, 2002 and 2001, trademarks were the only
indefinite-lived intangible assets under the provisions of
FAS 142.

F-18


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 7.     Business
Combinations

We regularly explore opportunities to make
acquisitions that would enhance our core package delivery
business and our various non-package businesses. Our
acquisitions include both domestic and international
transactions. During the three years ended December 31,
2002, we completed 22 acquisitions that were accounted for under
the purchase method of accounting. In connection with the
foregoing transactions, we paid cash (net of cash acquired) in
the aggregate amount of $14, $466, and $245 million in
2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively, and issued aggregate UPS
Class B common shares of 8.4 million in 2001. Pro
forma results of operations have not been presented for any of
the acquisitions because the effects of these transactions were
not material on either an individual or aggregate basis. The
results of operations of each acquired company are included in
our statements of consolidated income from the date of
acquisition. The purchase price allocations of acquired
companies can be modified up to one year after the date of
acquisition, however we expect such adjustments to the purchase
price allocations to be immaterial.

The fair value of the assets and liabilities
recorded each year as a result of these transactions is as
follows (in millions):

During 2001, we completed several acquisitions
that were added to the non-package segment. We acquired Mail
Boxes Etc., the world’s largest franchisor of independently
owned and operated business, communication, and shipping centers
worldwide, for cash of $185 million. We acquired Fritz
Companies, Inc., a freight forwarding, customs brokerage and
logistics company, for 7.3 million Class B common
shares valued at $456 million. Additionally, we acquired
First International Bancorp, Inc., a provider of structured
trade finance, commercial and government-backed lending
products, for 1.1 million Class B common shares valued
at $54 million.

F-19


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 8.     Long-Term
Debt and Commitments

Long-term debt, as of December 31, consists
of the following (in millions):

F-20


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

30 years at a stated percentage of par
    value, and putable by the note holders at various times after
    10 years at a stated percentage of par value.

(vi)

The cash-settled convertible senior notes have a
    par value of $300 million, bear interest at a stated rate of
    1.75% and are callable after three years. The notes may be
    exchanged for an amount of cash that is indexed to the trading
    price of our Class B common stock. In conjunction with the
    debt offering, we entered into a swap transaction in which we
    pay 30-day LIBOR less 38 basis points, and we receive the 1.75%
    cash coupon plus any equity appreciation payable in cash on the
    notes. The average interest rate payable on the swap for 2002
    and 2001 was 1.4% and 3.8%, respectively.

(vii)

We have capitalized lease obligations for certain
    aircraft, which are included in Property, Plant and Equipment at
    December 31 as follows (in millions):

(viii)

The UPS Notes program involves the periodic
    issuance of fixed rate notes in $1,000 increments with various
    terms and maturities. At December 31, 2002, the coupon
    rates of the outstanding notes varied between 4.00% and 6.40%,
    and the interest payments are made either monthly or
    semiannually. The maturities of the notes range from 2005 to
    2017. Substantially all of the fixed obligations associated with
    the notes were swapped to floating rates, based on different
    LIBOR indices plus or minus a spread. The average interest rate
    payable on the swaps for 2002 and 2001 was 1.5% and 2.8%,
    respectively.

Based on the borrowing rates currently available
    to the Company for long-term debt with similar terms and
    maturities, the fair value of long-term debt, including current
    maturities, is approximately $4.9 and $5.3 billion as of
    December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

We lease certain aircraft, facilities, equipment
    and vehicles under operating leases, which expire at various
    dates through 2052. Certain of the leases contain escalation
    clauses and renewal or purchase options. The following table
    sets forth the aggregate minimum lease payments under
    capitalized and operating leases, the aggregate annual principal
    payments due under our long-term debt, and the aggregate amounts
    expected to be spent for purchase commitments (in millions).

F-21


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2002, we had outstanding
letters of credit totaling approximately $1.5 billion
issued in connection with routine business requirements.

We maintain two credit agreements with a
consortium of banks that provide revolving credit facilities of
$1.25 billion each, with one expiring April 24, 2003
and the other April 27, 2005. Interest on any amounts we
borrow under these facilities would be charged at 90-day LIBOR
plus 15 basis points. At December 31, 2002, there were no
outstanding borrowings under these facilities. In addition, we
maintain an extendible commercial notes program under which we
are authorized to borrow up to $500 million. No amounts
were outstanding under this program at December 31, 2002.

We have a $2.0 billion shelf registration
statement under which we may issue debt securities in the U.S.
The debt may be denominated in a variety of currencies. There
was approximately $1.552 billion issued under this shelf
registration statement at December 31, 2002. We also
maintain a $1.0 billion European medium-term note program.
Under this program, we may issue notes from time to time,
denominated in a variety of currencies. At December 31,
2002, $1.0 billion was available under this program.

Note 9.     Deferred
Taxes, Credits and Other Liabilities

Deferred taxes, credits and other liabilities as
of December 31 consist of the following (in millions):

Note 10.     Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies

On August 9, 1999, the United States Tax
Court held that we were liable for tax on income of Overseas
Partners Ltd. (“OPL”), a Bermuda company that had
reinsured excess value (“EV”) package insurance
purchased by our customers beginning in 1984, and that we were
liable for additional tax for the 1983 and 1984 tax years. The
Court held that for the 1984 tax year we were liable for taxes
of $31 million on income reported by OPL, penalties and
penalty interest of $93 million, and interest for a total
after-tax exposure estimated at approximately $246 million.

The IRS took similar positions to those advanced
in the Tax Court decision for tax years subsequent to 1984.
Based on the Tax Court decision, we estimated that our total
after-tax exposure for tax years 1984 through 1999 could have
been as high as $2.353 billion.

In our second quarter 1999 financial statements,
we recorded a tax assessment charge of $1.786 billion,
which included an amount for related state tax liabilities. The
charge included taxes of $915 million and interest of $871
million. This assessment resulted in a tax benefit of
$344 million related to the interest component of the
assessment. As a result, our net charge to net income for the
tax assessment was $1.442 billion, increasing our total
after-tax reserve at that time with respect to these matters to
$1.672 billion. The tax benefit of deductible interest was
included in income taxes in 1999; however, since none of the
income on which this tax assessment was based was our income, we
did not classify the tax charge as income taxes.

We determined the size of our reserve with
respect to these matters in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
In 1999, we estimated our most likely liability based on the
initial Tax Court decision. In making this determination, we
concluded that, based on the Tax Court decision, it was more
likely that we would be required to pay taxes on income reported
by OPL and interest, but that it was not probable that we would
be required to pay any penalties and penalty interest. In

F-22


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

our prior estimation, if penalties and penalty
interest ultimately were determined to be payable, we would have
had to record an additional charge of up to $681 million.

Further, as a result of the unfavorable Tax Court
decision, and in order to stop the potential accrual of
additional interest that might ultimately have been determined
to be due to the IRS, on August 31, 1999 we paid
$1.349 billion, and on August 8, 2000 we paid an
additional $91 million, to the IRS related to these matters
for the 1984 through 1994 tax years. We included the profit of
the EV insurance program, using the IRS’s methodology for
calculating these amounts, for both 1998 and 1999 in filings we
made with the IRS in 1999. In February 2000, we paid
$339 million to the IRS related to these matters for the
1995 through 1997 tax years.

On June 20, 2001, the United States Court of
Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit reversed the Tax Court’s
decision. On September 13, 2001, the Eleventh Circuit
denied the IRS’s petition to have the appeal reheard en
banc. The IRS did not attempt to appeal the case to the U.S.
Supreme Court and, consequently, the case was remanded to the
Tax Court to consider alternative arguments raised by the
parties.

In January 2003, we and the IRS finalized
settlement of all outstanding tax issues related to EV package
insurance. Under the settlement of these issues, we agreed to
adjustments that will result in income tax due of approximately
$562 million, additions to tax of $60 million and related
interest. The amount due to the IRS as a result of the
settlement is less than amounts we previously had accrued (as
described above). As a result, we recorded income, before taxes,
of $1.023 billion ($776 million after tax) during the
fourth quarter of 2002. The refunds and credits associated with
this settlement are expected to occur over the next several
years.

The EV program that was the subject of the Tax
Court decision has been changed since September 1999. The
revised arrangement should eliminate the issues considered by
the Tax Court and the Eleventh Circuit related to OPL.

The IRS has proposed adjustments, unrelated to
the EV package insurance matters discussed above, regarding the
allowance of deductions and certain losses, the characterization
of expenses as capital rather than ordinary, the treatment of
certain income, and our entitlement to the investment tax credit
and the research tax credit in the 1985 through 1990 tax years.
The proposed adjustments would result in $10 million of
additional income tax expense. The IRS has also issued a report
taking a similar position with respect to some of these issues
for each of the years from 1991 through 1994. That report
proposes adjustments that would result in $50 million in
additional income tax expense. In November 2002, the IRS issued
a report taking a similar position with respect to some of these
issues for each of the years 1995 through 1998. That report
proposes adjustments that would result in $13 million in
additional income tax expense. For the 1985 through 1998 tax
years, unpaid interest on these adjustments through
December 31, 2002 could aggregate up to approximately $381
million, after the benefit of related tax deductions. We expect
that we will prevail on substantially all of these issues.
Specifically, we believe that our practice of expensing the
items that the IRS alleges should have been capitalized is
consistent with the practices of other industry participants.
The IRS may take similar positions with respect to some of these
issues for each of the years 1999 through 2002. The IRS’s
proposed adjustments include penalties and penalty interest. We
believe that the possibility that such penalties and penalty
interest will be sustained is remote. We believe that the
eventual resolution of these issues will not have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
or liquidity.

We are named as a defendant in 23 pending
lawsuits that seek to hold us liable for the collection of
premiums for EV insurance in connection with package shipments
since 1984. Based on state and federal tort, contract and
statutory claims, these cases generally claim that we failed to
remit collected EV premiums to an independent insurer; we failed
to provide promised EV insurance; we acted as an insurer without
complying with state insurance laws and regulations; and the
price for EV insurance was excessive.

F-23


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

These actions all were filed after the
August 9, 1999 Tax Court decision. As discussed above, on
June 20, 2001, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit ruled in our favor and reversed the Tax Court decision.

These 23 cases have been consolidated for
pre-trial purposes in a multi-district litigation proceeding
(“MDL Proceeding”) in federal court in New York. The
Court has ruled on motions to dismiss, granting our motions to
dismiss with respect to all of the plaintiffs’ tort claims
and all of their breach of contract claims prior to
August 26, 1994. Claims asserted under specific federal
statutes, and breach of contract claims commencing on August 26,
1994, may proceed at this time. We intend to continue to seek
dismissal of these remaining claims.

The defendants in the MDL Proceeding, including
UPS, have stipulated to conditional certification of a plaintiff
class in most of the lawsuits challenging the EV insurance
program for our shippers. Class certification is a procedural
step that allows claims to be resolved at one time as to all
potential claimants; it does not depend on or reflect the merits
of the underlying claims. Defendants may move later to set aside
or modify the class certification.

The cases subject to the class certification
stipulation will proceed to a single trial before the federal
court presiding over the MDL Proceeding, instead of being
returned for trial to the numerous federal courts around the
country from which they were transferred. In addition,
plaintiffs in the five cases with pending motions to remand to
state court have withdrawn these motions.

In addition to the cases in which UPS is named as
a defendant, there also is an action,

Smith v. Mail Boxes
Etc.,

against Mail Boxes Etc. and its franchisees relating
to UPS EV insurance purchased through Mail Boxes Etc. centers.
This case also has been consolidated into the MDL Proceeding.
The plaintiff has moved to have the case remanded back to state
court.

We believe that the allegations in these cases
have no merit and intend to continue to defend them vigorously.
The ultimate resolution of these cases cannot presently be
determined.

In addition, we are a defendant in various other
lawsuits that arose in the normal course of business. We believe
that the eventual resolution of these cases will not have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or liquidity.

Note 11.     Capital
Stock and Stock-Based Compensation

Capital Stock

UPS maintains two classes of common stock, which
are distinguished from each other by their respective voting
rights. Class A shares of UPS are entitled to ten votes per
share, whereas Class B shares are entitled to one vote per
share. Class A shares are primarily held by UPS employees,
and these shares are fully convertible into Class B shares
at any time. Class B shares are publicly-traded on the New
York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “UPS”.

Incentive
Compensation Plan

The UPS Incentive Compensation Plan permits the
grant of nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options,
stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance shares,
performance units, and management incentive awards to eligible
employees. The number of shares reserved for issuance under the
Plan is 112 million, with the number of shares reserved for
issuance as restricted stock limited to 34 million. As of
December 31, 2002, management incentive awards, stock
options, restricted stock, and performance shares had been
granted under the Incentive Compensation Plan.

F-24


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Management
Incentive Awards

Persons earning the right to receive Management
Incentive Awards are determined annually by the Compensation
Committee of the UPS Board of Directors. This Committee, in its
sole discretion, determines the total award, which consists of
UPS Class A common stock, given in any year. Amounts
expensed for Management Incentive Awards were $556, $651, and
$735 million during 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

Nonqualified
and Incentive Stock Options

The Company maintains fixed stock option plans
under which options are granted to purchase shares of UPS
Class A common stock. Prior to adoption of the Incentive
Compensation Plan, these options were granted at the current
price of UPS shares as determined by the UPS Board of Directors
on the date of option grant. Stock options granted in connection
with the Incentive Compensation Plan must have an exercise price
at least equal to the NYSE closing price of UPS Class B common
stock on the date the option was granted.

Persons earning the right to receive stock
options are determined each year by the Compensation Committee
and the UPS Board of Directors. Except in the case of death,
disability or retirement, options granted prior to the adoption
of our Incentive Compensation Plan are exercisable only during a
limited period after the expiration of five years from the date
of grant, while options granted under the Incentive Compensation
Plan are generally exercisable after three years from the date
of grant and before the expiration of the option ten years after
the date of grant. All options granted are subject to earlier
cancellation or exercise under certain conditions.

The following is an analysis of options to
purchase shares of Class A common stock issued and
outstanding:

Options were granted to eligible employees under
the 1996 Stock Option Plan in March 1999, but options will no
longer be granted under that plan. Beginning in November 1999,
options were granted under the Incentive Compensation Plan, and
a limited option grant to certain employees under this plan
occurred in 2000. Beginning in 2001 and in future years, options
to eligible employees will generally be granted annually during
the first half of each year at the discretion of the Board of
Directors.

During 2001, we assumed employee stock options in
connection with our acquisitions of Fritz Companies, Inc. and
First International Bancorp, Inc. (see Note 7), which were
converted into options to purchase UPS Class A common
shares. Existing stock option plans at Fritz Companies, Inc.
were assumed by UPS; however, options will no longer be granted
under these plans. Existing stock option plans at First
International Bancorp, Inc. were terminated upon the completion
of the acquisition.

F-25


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table summarizes information about
stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31,
2002:

Discounted
Employee Stock Purchase Plan

During 2001, the Company initiated an employee
stock purchase plan for all eligible employees. Under the plan,
shares of the Company’s Class A common stock may be
purchased at quarterly intervals at 90% of the lower of the NYSE
closing price on the first or the last day of each quarterly
period. During 2002 and 2001, employees purchased 1.8 and
0.4 million shares at average prices of $50.79 and $46.78
per share, respectively.

Other
Stock-Based Compensation

In connection with retention agreements for
certain personnel, restricted stock awards for approximately
24,000 Class A shares had been granted, but not vested, as
of December 31, 2002. These awards vest over remaining
terms of up to two years.

Deferred
Compensation Arrangements

The Company maintains a deferred compensation
plan whereby certain employees may elect to defer the gains on
stock option exercises by deferring the shares received upon
exercise into a rabbi trust. The shares held in this trust are
classified as treasury stock, and the liability to participating
employees is classified as “Deferred Compensation
Arrangements” in the shareowners’ equity section of
the balance sheet. The amount of shares needed to settle the
liability for deferred compensation arrangements is included in
the denominator in both the basic and diluted earnings per share
calculations.

Pro Forma Net
Income and EPS Information

The Company applies the measurement provisions of
APB Opinion 25 and related Interpretations in accounting for the
stock-based compensation plans. Accordingly, no compensation
expense has been recorded for the stock option or discounted
employee stock purchase plans during 2002, 2001, or 2000.

Pro forma information regarding net income and
earnings per share has been determined as if the Company
accounted for the employee stock option and discounted employee
stock purchase plans under the fair value method of FAS 123. For
purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of
the options granted is amortized to expense over the vesting
period of the options.

F-26


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The pro forma information is as follows (in
millions except per share amounts):

The fair value of each option grant is estimated
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions
used, by year, and the calculated weighted average fair value of
options granted, are as follows:

Note 12.     Segment
and Geographic Information

We report our operations in three segments: U.S.
domestic package operations, international package operations
and non-package operations. Package operations represent our
core business and are broken down into regional operations
around the world. Regional operations managers are responsible
for both domestic and export operations within their geographic
area.

U.S. Domestic
Package

Domestic package operations include the
time-definite delivery of letters, documents, and packages
throughout the United States.

International
Package

International package operations include delivery
to more than 200 countries and territories worldwide, including
shipments wholly outside the U.S. as well as shipments with
either origin or distribution outside the U.S.

Non-Package

Non-package operations include UPS Supply Chain
Solutions Group, Mail Boxes, Etc., and our excess value package
insurance business. UPS Supply Chain Solutions Group (which
offers the combined services of UPS Logistics Group, UPS Freight
Services, UPS Capital, UPS Consulting and UPS Mail Innovations)
provides supply chain design and management, freight forwarding,
customs brokerage, mail services, multi-modal transportation,
consulting, and financial services. Mail Boxes, etc. delivers
personalized business solutions through a worldwide network of
independently owned and operated business, communication, and
shipping centers.

F-27


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

In evaluating financial performance, we focus on
operating profit as a segment’s measure of profit or loss.
Operating profit is before investment income, interest expense,
and income taxes. The accounting policies of the reportable
segments are the same as those described in the summary of
accounting policies (see Note 1), with certain expenses
allocated between the segments using activity-based costing
methods. Unallocated assets are comprised primarily of cash,
marketable securities and short-term investments.

Segment information as of, and for the years
ended December 31 is as follows (in millions):

Two changes were made during the first quarter of
2002, which affect revenue reporting within the non-package
segment. Neither of these changes have any effect on current or
prior period income. First, effective January 1, 2002, the
results of operations of the Transportation Unit of our
Logistics Group were moved to our Freight Services Group.
Amounts in prior periods have been reclassified for comparison
purposes.

Second, our Logistics Group has historically
reported revenue from freight under management on a gross basis,
whereas our Freight Services Group, which was formed with the
acquisition of Fritz Companies, Inc. in the second quarter of
2001, reports revenue net of freight under management. Beginning
with the first quarter of 2002, we are now reporting revenue for
both the Logistics Group and Freight Services net of freight
under management. Amounts for prior periods have been modified
to reflect revenue net of freight under management for
comparison purposes.

F-28


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Following is a reconciliation of gross to net
revenue for the non-package segment (in millions):

Non-package operating profit included $112, $113,
and $101 million for 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively, of
intersegment profit, with a corresponding amount of operating
expense, which reduces operating profit, included in the U.S.
domestic package segment.

Revenue by product type for the years ended
December 31 is as follows (in millions):

F-29


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Geographic information as of, and for the years
ended, December 31 is as follows (in millions):

Revenue, for geographic disclosure, is based on
the location in which service originates. Long-lived assets
include property, plant and equipment, prepaid pension costs,
long-term investments, goodwill and intangible assets.

Note 13.     Other
Operating Expenses

The major components of other operating expenses
for the years ended December 31 are as follows (in millions):

F-30


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 14.     Income
Taxes

The income tax expense (benefit) for the
years ended December 31 consists of the following (in
millions):

Income before income taxes includes income of
foreign subsidiaries of $16, $8, and $9 million in 2002,
2001, and 2000, respectively.

A reconciliation of the statutory federal income
tax rate to the effective income tax rate for the years ended
December 31 consists of the following:

F-31


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Deferred tax liabilities and assets are comprised
of the following at December 31 (in millions):

The valuation allowance increased by $23,
decreased by $32, and increased by $22 million during the years
ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

We have foreign loss carryforwards of
approximately $232 million as of December 31, 2002, the
majority of which may be carried forward indefinitely. These
foreign loss carryforwards have been fully reserved in the
deferred tax assets valuation allowance due to the uncertainty
resulting from a lack of previous foreign taxable income within
certain foreign tax jurisdictions.

F-32


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 15.     Earnings
per Share

The following table sets forth the computation of
basic and diluted earnings per share (in millions except per
share amounts):

Diluted earnings per share for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 exclude the effect of
103,000, 6,627,000, and 134,000 shares, respectively, of common
stock that may be issued upon the exercise of employee stock
options because such effect would be antidilutive.

Note
16.     Derivative Instruments and Risk
Management

We are exposed to market risk, primarily related
to commodity prices, foreign exchange, interest rates and equity
prices. These exposures are actively monitored by management. To
manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into
a variety of derivative financial instruments. Our objective is
to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations
in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in commodity
prices, foreign currency rates, interest rates and equity
prices. It is our policy and practice to use derivative
financial instruments only to the extent necessary to manage
exposures. As we use price sensitive instruments to hedge a
certain portion of our existing and anticipated transactions, we
expect that any loss in value for those instruments generally
would be offset by increases in the value of those hedged
transactions.

We do not hold or issue derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

Commodity
Price Risk Management

We are exposed to an increase in the prices of
refined fuels, principally jet-A, diesel, and unleaded gasoline.
Additionally, we are exposed to an increase in the prices of
other energy products, principally natural gas and electricity.
We use a combination of options, swaps, and futures contracts to
provide partial protection from rising fuel and energy prices.
The net fair value of such contracts subject to price risk,
excluding the underlying exposures, as of December 31, 2002
and 2001 was an asset (liability) of approximately $34 and
$(27) million, respectively. We have designated and account for
these contracts as cash flow hedges, and,

F-33


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

therefore, the resulting gains and losses from
these hedges are recognized as a component of fuel expense or
other occupancy expense when the underlying fuel or energy
product being hedged is consumed.

Foreign
Currency Exchange Risk Management

We have foreign currency risks related to our
revenue, operating expenses, and financing transactions in
currencies other than the local currencies in which we operate.
We are exposed to currency risk from the potential changes in
functional currency values of our foreign currency denominated
assets, liabilities, and cash flows. Our most significant
foreign currency exposures relate to the Euro and the British
Pound Sterling. We use a combination of purchased and written
options and forward contracts to hedge currency cash flow
exposures. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the net fair
value of the hedging instruments described above was an asset
(liability) of approximately $(3) and $4 million,
respectively. We have designated and account for these contracts
as cash flow hedges of anticipated foreign currency denominated
revenue and, therefore, the resulting gains and losses from
these hedges are recognized as a component of international
revenue when the underlying sales occur.

Interest Rate Risk
Management

Our indebtedness under our various financing
arrangements creates interest rate risk. We use a combination of
derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps and
cross-currency interest rate swaps, as part of our program to
manage the fixed and floating interest rate mix of our total
debt portfolio and related overall cost of borrowing. These
swaps are entered into concurrently with the issuance of the
debt that they are intended to modify, and the notional amount,
interest payment, and maturity dates of the swaps match the
terms of the associated debt. Interest rate swaps allow us to
maintain a target range of floating rate debt.

We have designated and account for these
contracts as either hedges of the fair value of the associated
debt instruments, or as hedges of the variability in expected
future interest payments. Any periodic settlement payments are
accrued monthly, as either a charge or credit to interest
expense, and are not material to net income. The net fair value
of our interest rate swaps at December 31, 2002 and 2001
was a liability of approximately $(62) and $(74) million,
respectively.

Equity Price
Risk Management

We hold investments in various available-for-sale
equity securities which are subject to price risk. We use
combinations of options to hedge the price risk exposure
inherent in these securities. The fair value of such options
contracts designated as hedges, as of December 31, 2002 and
2001, was an asset of approximately $219 and $214 million,
respectively, which is classified in marketable securities and
short-term investments.

Credit
Risk

The forward contracts, swaps, and options
previously discussed contain an element of risk that the
counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the
agreements. However, we minimize such risk exposures for these
instruments by limiting the counterparties to large banks and
financial institutions that meet established credit guidelines.
We do not expect to incur any losses as a result of counterparty
default.

Derivatives
Not Designated As Hedges

Derivatives not designated as hedges primarily
consist of interest rate swaps that are used to hedge a
portfolio of small debt instruments. Although these instruments
are effective as hedges from an economic perspective, they do
not qualify for hedge accounting under FAS 133, as amended. The
impact from these interest rate swaps on our results was
immaterial. Additionally, we have a small portfolio of stock
warrants in

F-34


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

public and private companies that are held for
investment purposes. These warrants are recorded at fair value,
and the impact of these warrants on our results was immaterial.

Income
Effects of Derivatives

In the context of hedging relationships,
“effectiveness” refers to the degree to which fair
value changes in the hedging instrument offset corresponding
changes in the hedged item. Certain elements of hedge positions
cannot qualify for hedge accounting under FAS 133 whether
effective or not, and must therefore be marked to market through
income. Both the effective and ineffective portions of gains and
losses on hedges are reported in the income statement category
related to the hedged exposure. The following table summarizes
the earnings effect of such items for the years ended
December 31 (in millions):

As of December 31, 2002, $27 million in
gains related to cash flow hedges that are currently deferred in
OCI are expected to be reclassified to income over the
12 month period ending December 31, 2003. The actual
amounts that will be reclassified to income over the next
12 months will vary from this amount as a result of changes
in market conditions. No amounts were reclassified to income
during 2002 in connection with forecasted transactions that were
no longer considered probable of occurring.

At December 31, 2002, the maximum term of
derivative instruments that hedge forecasted transactions,
except those related to cross-currency interest rate swaps on
existing financial instruments, was 5 years. We maintain
cross-currency interest rate swaps that extend through 2009.

Fair Value of
Financial Instruments

At December 31, 2002 and 2001, our financial
instruments included cash and cash equivalents, marketable
securities and short-term investments, accounts receivable,
finance receivables, accounts payable, short-term and long-term
borrowings, and commodity, interest rate, foreign currency, and
equity options, forwards, and swaps. The fair values of cash and
cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and accounts payable
approximate carrying values because of the short-term nature of
these instruments. The fair value of our marketable securities
and short-term investments is disclosed in Note 2, finance
receivables in Note 3, and debt instruments in Note 8.

Note
17.     Restructuring Charge and
Related Expenses

In the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company
initiated a restructuring program to combine UPS Freight
Services and the UPS Logistics Group into a single business unit
(“Supply Chain Solutions”). In connection with this
restructuring program, the Company also recorded certain costs
related to the integration of activities between UPS Capital and
First International Bank.

The total cost of the program is estimated at
$127 million, of which $106 million was recorded in 2002.
The program will be completed by the end of 2003. The program is
designed to facilitate business growth, streamline management
decision-making, reduce the cost structure, and provide higher
levels of service to our customers.

F-35


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Costs of the program include employee severance
costs, asset impairments, costs associated with the
consolidation of facilities, and other costs directly related to
the restructuring program. The costs incurred in connection with
this program in 2002 are classified in other operating expenses
in the income statement (see Note 13).

Set forth below is a summary of activity related
to the restructuring program and resulting liability for the
year ended December 31, 2002:

Employee
Severance

Employee severance costs relate to severance
packages for approximately 800 people. The packages are
involuntary and are formula-driven based on salary levels and
past service. The current and planned separations span the
entire Supply Chain Solutions unit, including the operations,
information technology, finance, accounting, and business
development functions.

Asset
Impairment

Asset impairment charges result from establishing
new carrying values for assets that have been abandoned.
Impaired assets consist primarily of capitalized software that
is no longer used as a result of changes in business strategy
due to the restructuring.

Facility
Consolidation

Facility consolidation costs are associated with
terminating operating leases on offices, warehouses, and other
facilities.

Other
Costs

Other costs consist primarily of employee
relocations, legal costs associated with establishing the new
organizational structure, costs associated with moving
equipment, records, inventories between locations, and
conforming accounting policies among recently acquired entities
within Supply Chain Solutions.

Note
18.     September 11, 2001
Events

In response to the September 11, 2001
terrorist attacks, the FAA issued a federal ground stop order
prohibiting all flights to, from, and within the United States.
Due to this order, all domestic UPS aircraft were grounded, and
international flights into the United States were diverted, on
September 11th and 12th. We were able to transport many of
our express shipments through our extensive ground network until
the FAA order was lifted and our air operations resumed on the
evening of September 13th. Due to the economic disruption
caused by these events, we sustained significant declines in our
U.S. origin package volume during the weeks following the
attacks.

On September 22, 2001, President Bush signed
into law the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization
Act (the “Act”), a $15 billion emergency economic
assistance package to mitigate the dramatic

F-36


UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

financial losses experienced by the nation’s
air carriers. The Act, among other things, provides for the
following: (1) $5 billion in compensation for direct losses
incurred as a result of the federal ground stop order, and for
incremental losses incurred through December 31 as a result
of the attacks, (2) $10 billion in federal loan guarantees
and credits, (3) expanded war risk insurance coverage for
air carriers, and (4) government assistance for short-term
increases in insurance premiums. We submitted a claim for
compensation to the Department of Transportation and recognized
a pre-tax amount of $74 million related to this
reimbursement as a credit to the other expenses line item of
other operating expenses (see Note 13) in 2001 under the
provisions of EITF 01-10 “Accounting for the Impact of
Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001”.

Note
19.     Quarterly Information
(unaudited)

*

First quarter 2002 results have been restated to
    reflect the $72 million cumulative effect of change in
    accounting principle relating to the adoption of FAS 142.

F-37


EXHIBIT INDEX




† Filed herewith.