Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

ENTERGY’S BUSINESS

Entergy is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations.  Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 MW of electric generating capacity, including nearly 9,000 MW of nuclear power.  Entergy delivers electricity to 2.9 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.  Entergy had annual revenues of $11.1 billion in 2017 and had more than 13,000 employees as of December 31, 2017.

Entergy operates primarily through two business segments: Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities.

•

The

Utility

business segment includes the generation, transmission, distribution, and sale of electric power in portions of Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas, and Louisiana, including the City of New Orleans; and operation of a small natural gas distribution business.

•

The

Entergy Wholesale Commodities

business segment includes the ownership, operation, and decommissioning of nuclear power plants located in the northern United States and the sale of the electric power produced by its operating plants to wholesale customers.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also provides services to other nuclear power plant owners and owns interests in non-nuclear power plants that sell the electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers.  See “

MANAGEMENT’S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS -

Entergy Wholesale Commodities Exit from the Merchant Power Business

” for discussion of the operation and planned shutdown or sale of each of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants.

See Note 13 to the financial statements for financial information regarding Entergy’s business segments.

Strategy

Entergy’s mission is to operate a world-class energy business that creates sustainable value for its owners, customers, employees, and communities.  Entergy aspires to achieve top quartile total shareholder returns in a socially and environmentally responsible fashion by leveraging the scale and expertise inherent in its operations.  Entergy’s current scope includes electricity generation, transmission, and distribution as well as natural gas distribution.  Entergy focuses on operational excellence with an emphasis on safety, reliability, customer service, sustainability, cost efficiency, risk management, and engaged employees.  Entergy also continually seeks opportunities to grow its utility business to benefit all stakeholders and to optimize its portfolio of assets in an ever-dynamic market through periodic buy, build, hold, or disposal decisions.  To accomplish this, Entergy has established strategic imperatives for each business segment.  For the Utility, the strategic imperative is to modernize its operations, maintain reliability, and better serve its customers while growing the business.  For Entergy Wholesale Commodities, the strategic imperative is to continue to manage the risk of its operating portfolio as Entergy completes its exit from the merchant power business.

Utility

The Utility business segment includes five wholly-owned retail electric utility subsidiaries: Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas.  These companies generate, transmit, distribute and sell electric power to retail and wholesale customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.  Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans also provide natural gas utility services to customers in and around Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and New Orleans, Louisiana, respectively.  Also included in the Utility is System Energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy Corporation that owns or leases 90 percent of Grand Gulf.  System Energy sells its power and capacity from Grand Gulf at wholesale to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans.  The five retail utility subsidiaries are each regulated by the FERC and by state utility commissions, or, in the case of Entergy New Orleans, the City Council.  System Energy is regulated by the FERC because all of its transactions are at wholesale.  The overall generation portfolio of the Utility, which relies heavily on natural gas and nuclear generation, is consistent with Entergy’s strong support for the environment.





Customers

As of

December 31, 2017

, the Utility operating companies provided retail electric and gas service to customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas, as follows:

Electric Energy Sales

The electric energy sales of the Utility operating companies are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with the peak sales period normally occurring during the third quarter of each year.  On July 20, 2017, Entergy reached a 2017 peak demand of 21,671 MWh, compared to the 2016 peak of 21,387 MWh recorded on July 21, 2016.  Selected electric energy sales data is shown in the table below:

Selected 2017 Electric Energy Sales Data

(a)

Includes the effect of intercompany eliminations.

The following table illustrates the Utility operating companies’ 2017 combined electric sales volume as a percentage of total electric sales volume, and 2017 combined electric revenues as a percentage of total 2017 electric revenue, each by customer class.

(a)

Major industrial customers are primarily in the petroleum refining and chemical industries.





See “Selected Financial Data” for each of the Utility operating companies for the detail of their sales by customer class for 2013-2017.

Selected 2017 Natural Gas Sales Data

Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Louisiana provide both electric power and natural gas to retail customers.  Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Louisiana sold 9,745,874 and 6,017,174 Mcf, respectively, of natural gas to retail customers in 2017.  In 2017, 99% of Entergy Louisiana’s operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business, and only 1% from the natural gas distribution business.  For Entergy New Orleans, 88% of operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business and 12% from the natural gas distribution business in 2017.

Following is data concerning Entergy New Orleans’s 2017 retail operating revenue sources.





Retail Rate Regulation

General

(Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas)

Each Utility operating company regularly participates in retail rate proceedings.  The status of material retail rate proceedings is described in Note 2 to the financial statements.  Certain aspects of the Utility operating companies’ retail rate mechanisms are discussed below.





(a)

Based on 2018 forward test year.

(b)

Based on December 31, 2016 test year.

(c)

Based on September 30, 2016 test year.

(d)

Based on 2017 forward test year.

(e)

Based on December 31, 2011 test year and excludes approximately $228 million first-year average rate base for Union.

(f)

Based on December 31, 2011 test year.

(g)

Based on March 31, 2013 adjusted test year and excludes approximately $331 million for rate base being recovered through the distribution cost recovery rider and the transmission cost recovery rider

(h)

Based on calculation as of December 31, 2017.

Entergy Arkansas

Fuel and Purchased Power Cost Recovery

Entergy Arkansas’s rate schedules include an energy cost recovery rider to recover fuel and purchased power costs in monthly bills.  The rider utilizes prior calendar year energy costs and projected energy sales for the twelve-month period commencing on April 1 of each year to develop an energy cost rate, which is redetermined annually and includes a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery, including carrying charges, of the energy cost for the prior calendar year.  The energy cost recovery rider tariff also allows an interim rate request depending upon the level of over- or under-recovery of fuel and purchased energy costs.  In December 2007 the APSC issued an order stating that Entergy Arkansas’s energy cost recovery rider will remain in effect, and any future termination of the rider would be subject to eighteen months advance notice by the APSC, which would occur following notice and hearing.

Entergy Louisiana

Fuel Recovery

Entergy Louisiana’s rate schedules include a fuel adjustment clause designed to recover the cost of fuel and purchased power costs.  The fuel adjustment clause contains a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense and related carrying charges arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings related to audits of Entergy Louisiana’s fuel adjustment clause filings.

To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Louisiana hedges approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.  In January 2018, Entergy Louisiana filed an application with the LPSC to suspend these seasonal hedging programs and implement financial hedges with terms up to five years for a portion of its natural gas exposure.  A decision is expected in 2018.

Entergy Louisiana’s gas rates include a purchased gas adjustment clause based on estimated gas costs for the billing month adjusted by a surcharge or credit that arises from an annual reconciliation of fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.

To help stabilize retail gas costs, Entergy Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility for its gas purchased for resale through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Louisiana hedges approximately one-half of the projected natural gas volumes used to serve its natural gas customers for November through March.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.





Due to higher fuel costs for the operating month of January 2018 resulting in part from recent cold weather, higher Henry Hub prices, and an increase in total fuel and purchased power costs, Entergy Louisiana plans to cap the average fuel adjustment charge to be billed in March 2018 at $0.03060 per kWh and to defer billing of all fuel costs in excess of the capped amounts by including such costs in the over- or under-recovery account.

Storm Cost Recovery

See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Louisiana’s filings to recover storm-related costs.

Other

In March 2016 the LPSC opened two dockets to examine, on a generic basis, issues that it identified in connection with its review of Cleco Corporation’s acquisition by third party investors.  The first docket is captioned “In re: Investigation of double leveraging issues for all LPSC-jurisdictional utilities,” and the second is captioned “In re: Investigation of tax structure issues for all LPSC-jurisdictional utilities.”  In April 2016 the LPSC clarified that the concerns giving rise to the two dockets arose as a result of its review of the structure of the recently-approved Cleco-Macquarie transaction and that the specific intent of the directives is to seek more information regarding intra-corporate debt financing of a utility’s capital structure as well as the use of investment tax credits to mitigate the tax obligation at the parent level of a consolidated entity.  No schedule has been set for either docket, and limited discovery has occurred.

Entergy Mississippi

Fuel Recovery

Entergy Mississippi’s rate schedules include energy cost recovery riders to recover fuel and purchased power costs.  The energy cost rate for each calendar year is redetermined annually and includes a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery of the energy costs as of the 12-month period ended September 30.  Entergy Mississippi’s fuel cost recoveries are subject to annual audits conducted pursuant to the authority of the MPSC.

To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Mississippi received approval from the MPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Mississippi hedges approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.

Storm Cost Recovery

See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings regarding recovery of Entergy Mississippi’s storm-related costs.

Formula Rate Plan

In August 2012 the MPSC opened inquiries to review whether the current formulaic methodology used to calculate the return on common equity in both Entergy Mississippi’s formula rate plan and Mississippi Power Company’s annual formula rate plan was still appropriate or could be improved to better serve the public interest. The intent of this inquiry and review was for informational purposes only; the evaluation of any recommendations for changes to the existing methodology would take place in a general rate case or in the existing formula rate plan docket. In March 2013 the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff filed its consultant’s report which noted the return on common equity estimation methods used by Entergy Mississippi and Mississippi Power Company are commonly used throughout the electric utility industry.  The report suggested ways in which the methods used by Entergy Mississippi and Mississippi Power Company might be improved, but did not recommend specific changes in the return on common equity formulas





or calculations at that time.  In June 2014 the MPSC expanded the scope of the August 2012 inquiry to study the merits of adopting a uniform formula rate plan that could be applied, where possible in whole or in part, to both Entergy Mississippi and Mississippi Power Company in order to achieve greater consistency in the plans.  The MPSC directed the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff to investigate and review Entergy Mississippi’s formula rate plan rider schedule and Mississippi Power Company’s Performance Evaluation Plan by considering the merits and deficiencies and possibilities for improvement of each and then to propose a uniform formula rate plan that, where possible, could be applicable to both companies.  No procedural schedule has been set.  In October 2014 the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff conducted a public technical conference to discuss performance benchmarking and its potential application to the electric utilities’ formula rate plans.  The docket remains open.

Entergy New Orleans

Fuel Recovery

Entergy New Orleans’s electric rate schedules include a fuel adjustment tariff designed to reflect no more than targeted fuel and purchased power costs, adjusted by a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel and purchased power costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.

Entergy New Orleans’s gas rate schedules include a purchased gas adjustment to reflect estimated gas costs for the billing month, adjusted by a surcharge or credit similar to that included in the electric fuel adjustment clause, including carrying charges.

To help stabilize gas costs, Entergy New Orleans seeks approval annually from the City Council to continue implementation of its natural gas hedging program consistent with the City Council’s stated policy objectives.  The program uses financial instruments to hedge exposure to volatility in the wholesale price of natural gas purchased to serve Entergy New Orleans gas customers.  Entergy New Orleans hedges up to 25% of actual gas sales made during the winter months.

Due to higher fuel costs associated in part with the extended Grand Gulf outage and the partially simultaneous Union Power Block 1 planned outage, for the December 2016, January 2017, and February 2017 billing months, the City Council authorized Entergy New Orleans to cap the fuel adjustment charge billed to customers at $0.035 per kWh and to defer billing of all fuel costs in excess of the capped amount by including such costs in the over- or under-recovery account.

Due to higher fuel costs for the operating month of January 2018 resulting in part from recent cold weather, higher Henry Hub prices, and an increase in total fuel and purchased power costs associated in part with certain plant outages, Entergy New Orleans has proposed to cap the fuel adjustment charge to be billed in March 2018 to non-transmission Entergy New Orleans legacy customers and Entergy New Orleans Algiers customers at $0.035323 per kWh and $0.025446 per kWh, respectively.  Entergy New Orleans has also proposed to cap the fuel adjustment charge to be billed in March 2018 for Entergy New Orleans legacy transmission customers at $0.034609 per kWh and to defer billing of all fuel costs in excess of the capped amount by including such costs in the over- or under-recovery account.

Storm Cost Recovery

See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy New Orleans’s efforts to recover storm-related costs.





Entergy Texas

Fuel Recovery

Entergy Texas’s rate schedules include a fixed fuel factor to recover fuel and purchased power costs, including interest, that are not included in base rates.  Semi-annual revisions of the fixed fuel factor are made in March and September based on the market price of natural gas and changes in fuel mix.  The amounts collected under Entergy Texas’s fixed fuel factor and any interim surcharge or refund are subject to fuel reconciliation proceedings before the PUCT.  The PUCT fuel cost proceedings are discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements.

At the PUCT’s April 2013 open meeting, the PUCT Commissioners discussed their view that a purchased power capacity rider was good public policy.  The PUCT issued an order in May 2013 adopting the rule allowing for a purchased power capacity rider, subject to an offsetting adjustment for load growth.  The rule, as adopted, also includes a process for obtaining pre-approval by the PUCT of purchased power agreements.  Entergy Texas has not exercised the option to recover its capacity costs under the new rider mechanism, but will continue to evaluate the benefits of utilizing the new rider to recover future capacity costs.

Electric Industry Restructuring

In June 2009, a law was enacted in Texas that required Entergy Texas to cease all activities relating to Entergy Texas’s transition to competition.  The law allows Entergy Texas to remain a part of the SERC Region, although it does not prevent Entergy Texas from joining another power region.  The law provides that proceedings to certify a power region that Entergy Texas belongs to as a qualified power region can be initiated by the PUCT, or on motion by another party, when the conditions supporting such a proceeding exist.  Under the law, the PUCT may not approve a transition to competition plan for Entergy Texas until the expiration of four years from the PUCT’s certification of Entergy Texas’s power region.

The law also contains provisions that allow Entergy Texas to take advantage of a cost recovery mechanism that permits annual filings for the recovery of reasonable and necessary expenditures for transmission infrastructure improvement and changes in wholesale transmission charges.  This mechanism was previously available to other non-ERCOT Texas utility companies, but not to Entergy Texas.

The law further amended already existing law that had required Entergy Texas to propose for PUCT approval a tariff to allow eligible customers the ability to contract for competitive generation.  The amending language in the law provides, among other things, that:  1) the tariff shall not be implemented in a manner that harms the sustainability or competitiveness of manufacturers who choose not to participate in the tariff; 2) Entergy Texas shall “purchase competitive generation service, selected by the customer, and provide the generation at retail to the customer”; and 3)  Entergy Texas shall provide and price transmission service and ancillary services under that tariff at a rate that is unbundled from its cost of service.  The law directs that the PUCT may not issue an order on the tariff that is contrary to an applicable decision, rule, or policy statement of a federal regulatory agency having jurisdiction.

Entergy Texas and the other parties to the PUCT proceeding to determine the design of the competitive generation tariff were involved in negotiations throughout 2011 and 2012 with the objective of resolving as many disputed issues as possible regarding the tariff.  The PUCT determined that unrecovered costs that could be recovered through the rider consist only of those costs necessary to implement and administer the competitive generation program and do not include lost revenues or embedded generation costs.  The PUCT also ruled that the amount of customer load that may be included in the competitive generation service program is limited to 115 MW.  After additional negotiations, and ultimately the scheduling of a hearing to resolve remaining contested issues, the PUCT issued the order approving the competitive generation service rider in July 2013.  Entergy Texas filed for rehearing of the PUCT’s July 2013 order, which the PUCT denied.  Entergy Texas has since filed its appeal of that PUCT order to the Travis County District Court, which found in favor of the PUCT in an order issued in October 2014.  In November 2014, Entergy Texas appealed the District Court’s order which moves the appeal to the Third Court of Appeals.  Entergy





Texas and opposing parties filed briefs and responses in the first quarter 2015.  Oral argument was held in May 2015.  In March 2016 the Court of Appeals upheld the District Court’s ruling favoring the PUCT.  In May 2016, Entergy Texas filed with the Texas Supreme Court a petition for review of the Court of Appeals ruling.  In January 2017, Entergy Texas filed its petitioner’s brief on the merits with the Texas Supreme Court.  In June 2017 the Texas Supreme Court denied Entergy Texas’s petition in this matter.

In September 2011 the PUCT adopted a proposed rule implementing a distribution cost recovery factor to recover capital and capital-related costs related to distribution infrastructure.  The distribution cost recovery factor permits utilities once per year to implement an increase or decrease in rates above or below amounts reflected in base rates to reflect depreciation expense, federal income tax and other taxes, and return on investment.  The distribution cost recovery factor rider may be changed a maximum of four times between base rate cases.

Franchises

Entergy Arkansas holds exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 308 incorporated cities and towns in Arkansas.  These franchises are unlimited in duration and continue unless the municipalities purchase the utility property.  In Arkansas franchises are considered to be contracts and, therefore, are terminable pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement and applicable statutes.

Entergy Louisiana holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 175 incorporated municipalities and in the unincorporated areas of approximately 59 parishes of Louisiana.  Entergy Louisiana holds non-exclusive franchises to provide natural gas service to customers in the City of Baton Rouge and in East Baton Rouge Parish.  Municipal franchise agreement terms range from 25 to 60 years while parish franchise terms range from 25 to 99 years.

Entergy Mississippi has received from the MPSC certificates of public convenience and necessity to provide electric service to areas within 45 counties, including a number of municipalities, in western Mississippi.  Under Mississippi statutory law, such certificates are exclusive.  Entergy Mississippi may continue to serve in such municipalities upon payment of a statutory franchise fee, regardless of whether an original municipal franchise is still in existence.

Entergy New Orleans provides electric and gas service in the City of New Orleans pursuant to indeterminate permits set forth in city ordinances.  These ordinances contain a continuing option for the City of New Orleans to purchase Entergy New Orleans’s electric and gas utility properties.

Entergy Texas holds a certificate of convenience and necessity from the PUCT to provide electric service to areas within approximately 27 counties in eastern Texas, and holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 68 incorporated municipalities.  Entergy Texas typically obtains 25-year franchise agreements as existing agreements expire.  Entergy Texas’s electric franchises expire during 2018-2058.

The business of System Energy is limited to wholesale power sales.  It has no distribution franchises.





Property and Other Generation Resources

Owned Generating Stations

The total capability of the generating stations owned and leased by the Utility operating companies and System Energy as of

December 31, 2017

, is indicated below:

(a)

“Owned and Leased Capability” is the dependable load carrying capability as demonstrated under actual operating conditions based on the primary fuel (assuming no curtailments) that each station was designed to utilize.

Summer peak load for the Utility has averaged 21,533 MW over the previous decade.

The Utility operating companies’ load and capacity projections are reviewed periodically to assess the need and timing for additional generating capacity and interconnections.  These reviews consider existing and projected demand, the availability and price of power, the location of new load, the economy, environmental regulations, public policy goals, and the age and condition of Entergy’s existing infrastructure.

The Utility operating companies’ long-term resource strategy (Portfolio Transformation Strategy) calls for the bulk of capacity needs to be met through long-term resources, whether owned or contracted.  Over the past decade, the Portfolio Transformation Strategy has resulted in the addition of about 6,800 MW of new long-term resources and the deactivation of over 5,200 MW of legacy generation.  As MISO market participants, the Utility operating companies also participate in MISO’s Day Ahead and Real Time Energy and Ancillary Services markets to economically dispatch generation and purchase energy to serve customers reliably and at the lowest reasonable cost.

Other Generation Resources

RFP Procurements

The Utility operating companies from time to time issue requests for proposals (RFP) to procure supply-side resources from sources other than the spot market to meet the unique regional needs of the Utility operating companies.  The RFPs issued by the Utility operating companies have sought resources needed to meet near-term MISO reliability requirements as well as longer-term requirements through a broad range of wholesale power products, including limited-term (1 to 3 years) and long-term contractual products and asset acquisitions.  The RFP process has resulted in selections or acquisitions, including, among other things:

•

Entergy Louisiana’s June 2005 purchase of the 718 MW, gas-fired Perryville plant, of which 35% of the output is sold to Entergy Texas;

•

Entergy Arkansas’s September 2008 purchase of the 789 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Ouachita Generating Facility.  Entergy Louisiana, as successor in interest to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, owns one-third of the facility;





•

Entergy Arkansas’s November 2012 purchase of the 620 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Hot Spring Energy facility;

•

Entergy Mississippi’s November 2012 purchase of the 450 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Hinds Energy facility;

•

Entergy Louisiana’s construction of the 560 MW, combined-cycle, gas turbine Ninemile 6 generating facility at its existing Ninemile Point electric generating station.  The facility reached commercial operation in December 2014;

•

Entergy Louisiana’s construction of the 980 MW, combined-cycle, gas turbine St. Charles generating facility at its existing Little Gypsy electric generating station.  Entergy Louisiana received regulatory approval from the LPSC in December 2016 and the facility is scheduled to be in service by mid-2019;

•

Entergy Texas’s construction of the 993 MW, combined-cycle, gas turbine Montgomery County generating facility at its existing Lewis Creek electric generating station.  Entergy Texas received regulatory approval from the PUCT in July 2017 and the facility is scheduled to be in service by mid-2021; and

•

Entergy Louisiana’s construction of the 994 MW, combined-cycle, gas turbine Lake Charles generating facility at its existing Nelson electric generating station.  Entergy Louisiana received regulatory approval from the LPSC in July 2017 and the facility is scheduled to be in service by mid-2020.

The RFP process has also resulted in the selection, or confirmation of the economic merits of, long-term purchased power agreements (PPAs), including, among others:

•

River Bend 30% life-of-unit PPA between Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans for 100 MW related to Entergy Louisiana’s unregulated portion of the River Bend nuclear station, which portion was formerly owned by Cajun;

•

Entergy Arkansas wholesale base load capacity life-of-unit PPAs executed in 2003 totaling approximately 220 MW between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Louisiana (110 MW) and between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy New Orleans (110 MW) related to the sale of a portion of Entergy Arkansas’s coal and nuclear base load resources (which had not been included in Entergy Arkansas’s retail rates);

•

In December 2009, Entergy Texas and Exelon Generation Company, LLC executed a 10-year agreement for 150-300 MW from the Frontier Generating Station located in Grimes County, Texas;

•

In May 2011, Entergy Texas and Calpine Energy Services, L.P. executed a 10-year agreement for 485 MW from the Carville Energy Center located in St. Gabriel, Louisiana.  Entergy Louisiana purchases 50% of the facility’s capacity and energy from Entergy Texas.  In July 2014, LS Power purchased the Carville Energy Center and replaced Calpine Energy Services as the counterparty to the agreement;

•

In September 2012, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana executed a 20-year agreement for 28 MW, with the potential to purchase an additional 9 MW when available, from Rain CII Carbon LLC’s pet coke calcining facility in Sulphur, Louisiana.  The facility began commercial operation in May 2013.  Entergy Louisiana, as successor in interest to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, now holds the agreement with the facility;

•

In March 2013, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana executed a 20-year agreement for 8.5 MW from Agrilectric Power Partners, LP’s refurbished rice hull-fueled electric generation facility located in Lake Charles, Louisiana.   Entergy Louisiana, as successor in interest to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, now holds the agreement with Agrilectric;

•

In September 2013, Entergy Louisiana executed a 10-year agreement with TX LFG Energy, LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Montauk Energy Holdings, LLC, to purchase approximately 3 MW from its landfill gas-fueled power generation facility located in Cleveland, Texas;

•

Entergy Mississippi’s cost-based purchase, beginning in January 2013, of 90 MW from Entergy Arkansas’s share of Grand Gulf (only 60 MW of this PPA came through the RFP process).  Cost recovery for the 90 MW was approved by the MPSC in January 2013;

•

In April 2015, Entergy Arkansas and Stuttgart Solar, LLC executed a 20-year agreement for 81 MW from a solar photovoltaic electric generation facility located near Stuttgart, Arkansas. The APSC has approved the project, and the expected commercial operation date is in June 2019;





•

In November 2016, Entergy Louisiana and LS Power executed a 10-year agreement for 485 MW from the Carville Energy Center located in St. Gabriel, Louisiana.  The transaction has received regulatory approval and will begin in June 2022;

•

In November 2016, Entergy Louisiana and Occidental Chemical Corporation executed a 10-year agreement for 500 MW from the Taft Cogeneration facility located in Hahnville, Louisiana.  The transaction has received regulatory approval and will begin in June 2018; and

•

In June 2017, Entergy Arkansas and Chicot Solar, LLC executed 20-year agreement for 100 MW from a solar photovoltaic electric generating facility located in Chicot County, Arkansas.  Entergy Arkansas filed for regulatory approval in October 2017.

In June 2016, Entergy Services, on behalf of Entergy Louisiana, issued an RFP for long-term renewable generation resources.  The RFP was seeking up to 200 MW of renewable resources that could provide energy, fuel diversity, and other benefits to customers.  Two proposals were placed in the primary selection list and the transactions are currently in negotiations.

In July 2016, Entergy Services, on behalf of Entergy New Orleans, issued an RFP for long-term renewable generation resources.  The RFP was seeking up to 20 MW of renewable resources that could provide increased depth and diversity to Entergy New Orleans’s generation resource portfolio.  In May 2017, Entergy New Orleans selected three proposals, including a 5 MW self-build option for an aggregated solar photovoltaic resource located within Orleans Parish, Louisiana.  In October 2017, Entergy New Orleans filed an application seeking City Council approval for the self-build option, which is pending before the City Council.  Following unsuccessful negotiations related to the other proposals selected in May 2017, Entergy New Orleans suspended negotiations in November 2017 and invited bidders to re-submit proposals with current information.  From these submissions, in January 2018, Entergy New Orleans selected three proposals with an anticipated total capacity of 90 MW.  The updated proposals selected are in addition to the self-build option.

Other Procurements From Third Parties

The Utility operating companies have also made resource acquisitions outside of the RFP process, including Entergy Mississippi’s January 2006 acquisition of the 480 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Attala power plant; Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s March 2008 acquisition of the 322 MW, simple-cycle, gas-fired Calcasieu Generating Facility;  Entergy Louisiana’s April 2011 acquisition of the 580 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Acadia Energy Center Unit 2; and Entergy Arkansas’s (Power Block 2), Entergy Louisiana’s (Power Blocks 3 and 4), and Entergy New Orleans’s (Power Block 1) March 2016 acquisitions of the 1,980 MW (summer rating), natural gas-fired, combined-cycle gas turbine Union Power Station power blocks, each rated at 495 MW (summer rating).  The Utility operating companies have also entered into various limited- and long-term contracts in recent years as a result of bilateral negotiations.

The Washington Parish Energy Center is a 361 MW natural gas-fired peaking power plant under advanced development approximately 60 miles north of New Orleans on a partially developed site Calpine has owned since 2001.  This simple-cycle power plant is proposed to be developed pursuant to an agreement with Entergy Louisiana, which will purchase the plant upon completion in 2021 for a fixed payment to reimburse construction costs plus an associated premium.  In May 2017, Entergy Louisiana filed an application with the LPSC seeking certification of the plant.  The application is pending.

Interconnections

The Utility operating companies’ generating units are interconnected by a transmission system operating at various voltages up to 500 kV.  These generating units consist primarily of steam-electric production facilities and are provided dispatch instructions by MISO.  Entergy’s Utility operating companies are MISO market participants and are interconnected with many neighboring utilities.  MISO is an essential link in the safe, cost-effective delivery of electric power across all or parts of 15 U.S. states and the Canadian province of Manitoba.  As a Regional Transmission Organization, MISO assures consumers of unbiased regional grid management and open access to the transmission





facilities under MISO’s functional supervision.  In addition, the Utility operating companies are members of the SERC Reliability Corporation (SERC).  SERC is a nonprofit corporation responsible for promoting and improving the reliability, adequacy, and critical infrastructure of the bulk power supply systems in all or portions of 16 central and southeastern states.

SERC serves as a regional entity with delegated authority from the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) for the purpose of proposing and enforcing reliability standards within the SERC Region.

Gas Property

As of

December 31, 2017

, Entergy New Orleans distributed and transported natural gas for distribution within New Orleans, Louisiana, through approximately 2,500 miles of gas pipeline.  As of December 31, 2017, the gas properties of Entergy Louisiana, which are located in and around Baton Rouge, Louisiana, were not material to Entergy Louisiana’s financial position.

Title

The Utility operating companies’ generating stations are generally located on properties owned in fee simple.  Most of the substations and transmission and distribution lines are constructed on private property or public rights-of-way pursuant to easements, servitudes, or appropriate franchises.  Some substation properties are owned in fee simple.  The Utility operating companies generally have the right of eminent domain, whereby they may perfect title to, or secure easements or servitudes on, private property for their utility operations.

Substantially all of the physical properties and assets owned by Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy are subject to the liens of mortgages securing bonds issued by those companies.  The Lewis Creek generating station is owned by GSG&T, Inc., a subsidiary of Entergy Texas, and is not subject to its mortgage lien.  Lewis Creek is leased to and operated by Entergy Texas.

Fuel Supply

The sources of generation and average fuel cost per kWh for the Utility operating companies and System Energy for the years 2015-2017 were:





Actual 2017 and projected 2018 sources of generation for the Utility operating companies and System Energy, including certain power purchases from affiliates under life of unit power purchase agreements, including the Unit Power Sales Agreement, are:

(a)

Hydroelectric power provided less than 1% of Entergy Arkansas’s generation in 2017 and is expected to provide about less than1% of its generation in 2018.

(b)

Solar power provided less than 1% of Entergy Mississippi’s and Entergy New Orleans's generation in 2017 and is expected to provide less than 1% of each of Entergy Mississippi’s and Entergy New Orleans's generation in 2018.

(c)

Capacity and energy from System Energy’s interest in Grand Gulf is allocated as follows under the Unit Power Sales Agreement: Entergy Arkansas - 36%; Entergy Louisiana - 14%; Entergy Mississippi - 33%; and Entergy New Orleans - 17%.  Pursuant to purchased power agreements, Entergy Arkansas is selling a portion of its owned capacity and energy from Grand Gulf to Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans.

(d)

Excludes MISO purchases

(e)

In December 2013, Entergy integrated its transmission system into the MISO RTO.  Entergy offers all of its generation into the MISO energy market on a day-ahead and real-time basis and bids for power in the MISO energy market to serve the demand of its customers, with MISO making dispatch decisions.  MISO purchases cannot be projected for 2018.

Some of the Utility’s gas-fired plants are also capable of using fuel oil, if necessary.  Although based on current economics the Utility does not expect fuel oil use in 2018, it is possible that various operational events including weather or pipeline maintenance may require the use of fuel oil.

Natural Gas

The Utility operating companies have long-term firm and short-term interruptible gas contracts for both supply and transportation.  Over 50% of the Utility operating companies’ power plants maintain some level of long-term firm transportation.  Short-term contracts and spot-market purchases satisfy additional gas requirements.  Entergy Texas owns a gas storage facility that provides reliable and flexible natural gas service to certain generating stations.

Many factors, including wellhead deliverability, storage, pipeline capacity, and demand requirements of end users, influence the availability and price of natural gas supplies for power plants.  Demand is tied to weather conditions as well as to the prices and availability of other energy sources.  Pursuant to federal and state regulations, gas supplies to power plants may be interrupted during periods of shortage.  To the extent natural gas supplies are disrupted or natural gas prices significantly increase, the Utility operating companies will use alternate fuels, such as oil, or rely to a larger extent on coal, nuclear generation, and purchased power.





Coal

Entergy Arkansas has committed to eight one- to three-year and two spot contracts that will supply approximately 85% of the total coal supply needs in 2018.  These contracts are staggered in term so that not all contracts have to be renewed the same year.  The remaining 15% of total coal requirements will be satisfied by contracts with a term of less than one year.  Based on continued improved Powder River Basin (PRB) coal deliveries by rail and the high cost of alternate sources and modes of transportation, no alternative coal consumption is expected at Entergy Arkansas during 2018.  Coal will be transported to Arkansas via an existing transportation agreement that is expected to provide all of Entergy Arkansas’s rail transportation requirements for 2018.

Entergy Louisiana has committed to five one- to three-year contracts that will supply approximately 90% of Nelson Unit 6 coal needs in 2018.  If needed, additional PRB coal will be purchased through contracts with a term of less than one year to provide the remaining supply needs.  For the same reasons as for Entergy Arkansas’s plants, no alternative coal consumption is expected at Nelson Unit 6 during 2018.  Coal will be transported to Nelson primarily via an existing transportation agreement that is expected to provide all of Entergy Louisiana’s rail transportation requirements for 2018.

For the year 2017, coal transportation delivery to Entergy Arkansas-and Entergy Louisiana-operated coal-fired units was adequate for the majority of the year but experienced some delays in the fourth quarter of 2017.  It is expected that delivery times will improve in 2018.  Both Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Louisiana control a sufficient number of railcars to satisfy the rail transportation requirement.

The operator of Big Cajun 2 - Unit 3, Louisiana Generating, LLC, has advised Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Texas that it has adequate rail car and barge capacity to meet the volumes of PRB coal requested for 2018.  Entergy Louisiana’s and Entergy Texas’s coal nomination requests to Big Cajun 2 - Unit 3 are made on an annual basis.

Nuclear Fuel

The nuclear fuel cycle consists of the following:

•

mining and milling of uranium ore to produce a concentrate;

•

conversion of the concentrate to uranium hexafluoride gas;

•

enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride gas;

•

fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies for use in fueling nuclear reactors; and

•

disposal of spent fuel.

The Registrant Subsidiaries that own nuclear plants, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, are responsible through a shared regulated uranium pool for contracts to acquire nuclear material to be used in fueling Entergy’s Utility nuclear units.  These companies own the materials and services in this shared regulated uranium pool on a pro rata fractional basis determined by the nuclear generation capability of each company.  Any liabilities for obligations of the pooled contracts are on a several but not joint basis.  The shared regulated uranium pool maintains inventories of nuclear materials during the various stages of processing.  The Registrant Subsidiaries purchase enriched uranium hexafluoride for their nuclear plant reload requirements at the average inventory cost from the shared regulated uranium pool.  Entergy Operations, Inc. contracts separately for the fabrication of nuclear fuel as agent on behalf of each of the Registrant Subsidiaries that owns a nuclear plant.  All contracts for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel are between the DOE and the owner of a nuclear power plant.

Based upon currently planned fuel cycles, the nuclear units in both the Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities segments have a diversified portfolio of contracts and inventory that provides substantially adequate nuclear fuel materials and conversion and enrichment services at what Entergy believes are reasonably predictable or fixed prices through most of 2018 or beyond.  The nuclear fuel supply portfolio for the Entergy Wholesale Commodities segment is being adjusted to reflect reduced overall requirements related to the planned permanent shutdowns of the





Palisades, Pilgrim, Indian Point 2, and Indian Point 3 plants.  Entergy’s ability to purchase nuclear fuel at reasonably predictable prices, however, depends upon the performance reliability of uranium miners.  There are a number of possible supply alternatives that may be accessed to mitigate any supplier performance failure, including potentially drawing upon Entergy’s inventory intended for later generation periods depending upon its risk management strategy at that time, although the pricing of any alternate uranium supply from the market will be dependent upon the market for uranium supply at that time.  In addition, some nuclear fuel contracts are on a non-fixed price basis subject to prevailing prices at the time of delivery.

The effects of market price changes may be reduced and deferred by risk management strategies, such as negotiation of floor and ceiling amounts for long-term contracts, buying for inventory or entering into forward physical contracts at fixed prices when Entergy believes it is appropriate and useful.  Entergy buys uranium from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of countries, and from time to time purchases from nearly all qualified reliable major market participants worldwide that sell into the U.S.

Entergy’s ability to assure nuclear fuel supply also depends upon the performance reliability of conversion, enrichment, and fabrication services providers.  There are fewer of these providers than for uranium.  For conversion and enrichment services, like uranium, Entergy diversifies its supply by supplier and country and may take special measures as needed to ensure supply of enriched uranium for the reliable fabrication of nuclear fuel.  For fabrication services, each plant is dependent upon the effective performance of the fabricator of that plant’s nuclear fuel, therefore, Entergy provides additional monitoring, inspection, and oversight for the fabrication process to assure reliability and quality.

Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy each have made arrangements to lease nuclear fuel and related equipment and services.  The lessors, which are consolidated in the financial statements of Entergy and the applicable Registrant Subsidiary, finance the acquisition and ownership of nuclear fuel through credit agreements and the issuance of notes.  These credit facilities are subject to periodic renewal, and the notes are issued periodically, typically for terms between three and seven years.

Natural Gas Purchased for Resale

Entergy New Orleans has several suppliers of natural gas.  Its system is interconnected with three interstate and three intrastate pipelines.  Entergy New Orleans has a “no-notice” service gas purchase contract with Centerpoint Energy Services which guarantees Entergy New Orleans gas delivery at specific delivery points and at any volume within the minimum and maximum set forth in the contract amounts.  The Centerpoint Energy Service gas supply is transported to Entergy New Orleans pursuant to a transportation service agreement with Gulf South Pipeline Co.  This service is subject to FERC-approved rates.  Entergy New Orleans also makes interruptible spot market purchases.

Entergy Louisiana purchased natural gas for resale in 2017 under a firm contract from Sequent Energy Management L.P.  The gas is delivered through a combination of intrastate and interstate pipelines.

As a result of the implementation of FERC-mandated interstate pipeline restructuring in 1993, curtailments of interstate gas supply could occur if Entergy Louisiana’s or Entergy New Orleans’s suppliers failed to perform their obligations to deliver gas under their supply agreements.  Gulf South Pipeline Co. could curtail transportation capacity only in the event of pipeline system constraints.

Federal Regulation of the Utility

State or local regulatory authorities, as described above, regulate the retail rates of the Utility operating companies.  The FERC regulates wholesale sales of electricity rates and interstate transmission of electricity, including System Energy’s sales of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for further discussion of federal regulation proceedings.





System Agreement

(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

Prior to each operating company’s termination of participation in the System Agreement (Entergy Arkansas in December 2013, Entergy Mississippi in November 2015, and Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas each in August 2016), the Utility operating companies engaged in the coordinated planning, construction, and operation of generating and bulk transmission facilities under the terms of the System Agreement, which was a rate schedule approved by the FERC.  Under the terms of the System Agreement, generating capacity and other power resources were jointly operated by the Utility operating companies that were participating in the System Agreement.  The System Agreement provided, among other things, that parties having generating reserves greater than their allocated share of reserves (long companies) would receive payments from those parties having generating reserves that were less than their allocated share of reserves (short companies).  Such payments were at amounts sufficient to cover certain of the long companies’ costs for intermediate and peaking oil/gas-fired generation, including operating expenses, fixed charges on debt, dividend requirements on preferred equity, and a fair rate of return on common equity investment.  Under the System Agreement, the rates used to compensate long companies were based on costs associated with the long companies’ steam electric generating units fueled by oil or gas and having an annual average heat rate above 10,000 Btu/kWh.  In addition, for all energy exchanged among the Utility operating companies under the System Agreement, the companies purchasing exchange energy were required to pay the cost of fuel consumed in generating such energy plus a charge to cover other associated costs.  Entergy Arkansas terminated its participation in the System Agreement in December 2013.  Entergy Mississippi terminated its participation in the System Agreement in November 2015.  The System Agreement terminated with respect to its remaining participants in August 2016.

Although the System Agreement has terminated, certain of the Utility operating companies’ and their retail regulators are pursuing litigation involving the System Agreement at the FERC and in federal courts.  The proceedings include challenges to the allocation of costs as defined by the System Agreement and other matters.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for discussion of legal proceedings at the FERC and in federal courts involving the System Agreement.

Transmission and MISO Markets

On December 19, 2013, the Utility operating companies integrated into the MISO RTO.  Although becoming a member of MISO does not affect the ownership by the Utility operating companies of their transmission facilities or the responsibility for maintaining those facilities, MISO maintains functional control over the combined transmission systems of its members and administers wholesale energy and ancillary services markets for market participants in the MISO region, including the Utility operating companies.  MISO also exercises functional control of transmission planning and congestion management and provides schedules and pricing for the commitment and dispatch of generation that is offered into MISO’s markets, as well as pricing for load that bids into the markets.  The Utility operating companies sell capacity, energy, and ancillary services on a bilateral basis to certain wholesale customers and offer available electricity production of their generating facilities into the MISO day-ahead and real-time energy markets pursuant to the MISO tariff and market rules.  Each Utility operating company has its own transmission pricing zone and a formula rate template (included as Attachment O to the MISO tariff) used to establish transmission rates within MISO.  The terms and conditions of the MISO tariff, including provisions related to the design and implementation of wholesale markets and the allocation of transmission upgrade costs, are subject to regulation by the FERC.

System Energy and Related Agreements

System Energy recovers costs related to its interest in Grand Gulf through rates charged to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans for capacity and energy under the Unit Power Sales Agreement (described below).  In December 1995, System Energy commenced a rate proceeding at the FERC.  In July 2001 the rate proceeding became final, with the FERC approving a prospective 10.94% return on equity.    In 1998 the FERC approved requests by Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi to accelerate a portion of their Grand Gulf purchased power obligations.  Entergy Arkansas’s and Entergy Mississippi’s acceleration of Grand Gulf purchased





power obligations ceased effective July 2001 and July 2003, respectively, as approved by the FERC.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for discussion of a complaint filed with the FERC in January 2017 regarding System Energy’s return on equity.

Unit Power Sales Agreement

The Unit Power Sales Agreement allocates capacity, energy, and the related costs from System Energy’s ownership and leasehold interests in Grand Gulf to Entergy Arkansas (36%), Entergy Louisiana (14%), Entergy Mississippi (33%), and Entergy New Orleans (17%).  Each of these companies is obligated to make payments to System Energy for its entitlement of capacity and energy on a full cost-of-service basis regardless of the quantity of energy delivered.  Payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are System Energy’s only source of operating revenue.  The financial condition of System Energy depends upon the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf and the receipt of such payments.  Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans generally recover payments made under the Unit Power Sales Agreement through rates charged to their customers.

In the case of Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Louisiana, payments are also recovered through sales of electricity from their respective retained shares of Grand Gulf.  Under a settlement agreement entered into with the APSC in 1985 and amended in 1988, Entergy Arkansas retains 22% of its 36% share of Grand Gulf-related costs and recovers the remaining 78% of its share in rates.  In the event that Entergy Arkansas is not able to sell its retained share to third parties, it may sell such energy to its retail customers at a price equal to its avoided cost, which is currently less than Entergy Arkansas’s cost from its retained share.  Entergy Arkansas has life-of-resources purchased power agreements with Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans that sell a portion of the output of Entergy Arkansas’s retained share of Grand Gulf to those companies, with the remainder of the retained share being sold to Entergy Mississippi through a separate life-of-resources purchased power agreement.  In a series of LPSC orders, court decisions, and agreements from late 1985 to mid-1988, Entergy Louisiana was granted rate relief with respect to costs associated with Entergy Louisiana’s share of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf, subject to certain terms and conditions.  Entergy Louisiana retains and does not recover from retail ratepayers 18% of its 14% share of the costs of Grand Gulf capacity and energy and recovers the remaining 82% of its share in rates.  Entergy Louisiana is allowed to recover through the fuel adjustment clause at 4.6 cents per kWh for the energy related to its retained portion of these costs.  Alternatively, Entergy Louisiana may sell such energy to non-affiliated parties at prices above the fuel adjustment clause recovery amount, subject to the LPSC’s approval.  Entergy Arkansas also has a life-of-resources purchased power agreement with Entergy Mississippi to sell a portion of the output of Entergy Arkansas’s non-retained share of Grand Gulf.  Entergy Mississippi was granted rate relief for those purchases by the MPSC through its annual unit power cost rate mechanism.

Availability Agreement

The Availability Agreement among System Energy and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans was entered into in 1974 in connection with the financing by System Energy of Grand Gulf.  The Availability Agreement provides that System Energy make available to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans all capacity and energy available from System Energy’s share of Grand Gulf.

Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans also agreed severally to pay System Energy monthly for the right to receive capacity and energy from Grand Gulf in amounts that (when added to any amounts received by System Energy under the Unit Power Sales Agreement) would at least equal System Energy’s total operating expenses for Grand Gulf (including depreciation at a specified rate and expenses incurred in a permanent shutdown of Grand Gulf) and interest charges.

The allocation percentages under the Availability Agreement are fixed as follows: Entergy Arkansas - 17.1%; Entergy Louisiana - 26.9%; Entergy Mississippi - 31.3%; and Entergy New Orleans - 24.7%.  The allocation percentages under the Availability Agreement would remain in effect and would govern payments made under such agreement in





the event of a shortfall of funds available to System Energy from other sources, including payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement.

System Energy has assigned its rights to payments and advances from Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans under the Availability Agreement as security for its one outstanding series of first mortgage bonds.  In these assignments, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans further agreed that, in the event they were prohibited by governmental action from making payments under the Availability Agreement (for example, if the FERC reduced or disallowed such payments as constituting excessive rates), they would then make subordinated advances to System Energy in the same amounts and at the same times as the prohibited payments.  System Energy would not be allowed to repay these subordinated advances so long as it remained in default under the related indebtedness or in other similar circumstances.

Each of the assignment agreements relating to the Availability Agreement provides that Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans will make payments directly to System Energy. However, if there is an event of default, those payments must be made directly to the holders of indebtedness that are the beneficiaries of such assignment agreements.  The payments must be made pro rata according to the amount of the respective obligations secured.

The obligations of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans to make payments under the Availability Agreement are subject to the receipt and continued effectiveness of all necessary regulatory approvals.  Sales of capacity and energy under the Availability Agreement would require that the Availability Agreement be submitted to the FERC for approval with respect to the terms of such sale.  No such filing with the FERC has been made because sales of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf are being made pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.  If, for any reason, sales of capacity and energy are made in the future pursuant to the Availability Agreement, the jurisdictional portions of the Availability Agreement would be submitted to the FERC for approval.

Since commercial operation of Grand Gulf began, payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement to System Energy have exceeded the amounts payable under the Availability Agreement and, therefore, no payments under the Availability Agreement have ever been required.  If Entergy Arkansas or Entergy Mississippi fails to make its Unit Power Sales Agreement payments, and System Energy is unable to obtain funds from other sources, Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans could become subject to claims or demands by System Energy or its creditors for payments or advances under the Availability Agreement (or the assignments thereof) equal to the difference between their required Unit Power Sales Agreement payments and their required Availability Agreement payments because their Availability Agreement obligations exceed their Unit Power Sales Agreement obligations.

The Availability Agreement may be terminated, amended, or modified by mutual agreement of the parties thereto, without further consent of any assignees or other creditors.

Capital Funds Agreement

System Energy and Entergy Corporation have entered into the Capital Funds Agreement, whereby Entergy Corporation has agreed to supply System Energy with sufficient capital to (i) maintain System Energy’s equity capital at an amount equal to a minimum of 35% of its total capitalization (excluding short-term debt) and (ii) permit the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf and pay in full all indebtedness for borrowed money of System Energy when due.

Entergy Corporation has entered into various supplements to the Capital Funds Agreement.  System Energy has assigned its rights under such a supplement as security for its one outstanding series of first mortgage bonds.  The supplement provides that permitted indebtedness for borrowed money incurred by System Energy in connection with the financing of Grand Gulf may be secured by System Energy’s rights under the Capital Funds Agreement on a pro rata basis (except for the Specific Payments, as defined below). In addition, in the supplements to the Capital Funds Agreement relating to the specific indebtedness being secured, Entergy Corporation has agreed to make cash capital





contributions directly to System Energy sufficient to enable System Energy to make payments when due on such indebtedness (Specific Payments).  However, if there is an event of default, Entergy Corporation must make those payments directly to the holders of indebtedness benefiting from the supplemental agreements.  The payments (other than the Specific Payments) must be made pro rata according to the amount of the respective obligations benefiting from the supplemental agreements.

The Capital Funds Agreement may be terminated, amended, or modified by mutual agreement of the parties thereto, upon obtaining the consent, if required, of those holders of System Energy’s indebtedness then outstanding who have received the assignments of the Capital Funds Agreement.  No such consent would be required to terminate the Capital Funds Agreement or the supplement thereto at this time.

Service Companies

Entergy Services, a corporation wholly-owned by Entergy Corporation, provides management, administrative, accounting, legal, engineering, and other services primarily to the Utility operating companies, but also provides services to Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  Entergy Operations is also wholly-owned by Entergy Corporation and provides nuclear management, operations and maintenance services under contract for ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, subject to the owner oversight of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, respectively.  Entergy Services and Entergy Operations provide their services to the Utility operating companies and System Energy on an “at cost” basis, pursuant to cost allocation methodologies for these service agreements that were approved by the FERC.

Jurisdictional Separation of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas

Effective December 31, 2007, Entergy Gulf States, Inc. completed a jurisdictional separation into two vertically integrated utility companies, one operating under the sole retail jurisdiction of the PUCT, Entergy Texas, and the other operating under the sole retail jurisdiction of the LPSC, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  Entergy Texas owns all Entergy Gulf States, Inc. distribution and transmission assets located in Texas, the gas-fired generating plants located in Texas, undivided 42.5% ownership shares of Entergy Gulf States, Inc.’s 70% ownership interest in Nelson 6 and 42% ownership interest in Big Cajun 2, Unit 3, which are coal-fired generating plants located in Louisiana, and other assets and contract rights to the extent related to utility operations in Texas.  Entergy Louisiana, as successor in interest to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, owns all of the remaining assets that were owned by Entergy Gulf States, Inc.  On a book value basis, approximately 58.1% of the Entergy Gulf States, Inc. assets were allocated to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and approximately 41.9% were allocated to Entergy Texas.

Entergy Texas purchases from Entergy Louisiana pursuant to a life-of-unit purchased power agreement a 42.5% share of capacity and energy from the 70% of River Bend subject to retail regulation.  Entergy Texas was allocated a share of River Bend’s nuclear and environmental liabilities that is identical to the share of the plant’s output purchased by Entergy Texas under the purchased power agreement.  In connection with the termination of the System Agreement effective August 31, 2016, the purchased power agreements that were put in place for certain legacy units at the time of the jurisdictional separation were also terminated at that time.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional discussion of the purchased power agreements.

Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana Business Combination

On October 1, 2015, the businesses formerly conducted by Entergy Louisiana (Old Entergy Louisiana) and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana (Old Entergy Gulf States Louisiana) were combined into a single public utility.  In order to effect the business combination, under the Texas Business Organizations Code (TXBOC), Old Entergy Louisiana allocated substantially all of its assets to a new subsidiary, Entergy Louisiana Power, LLC, a Texas limited liability company (New Entergy Louisiana), and New Entergy Louisiana assumed the liabilities of Old Entergy Louisiana, in a transaction regarded as a merger under the TXBOC.  Under the TXBOC, Old Entergy Gulf States Louisiana allocated substantially all of its assets to a new subsidiary (New Entergy Gulf States Louisiana) and New Entergy Gulf States





Louisiana assumed the liabilities of Old Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, in a transaction regarded as a merger under the TXBOC.  New Entergy Gulf States Louisiana then merged into New Entergy Louisiana with New Entergy Louisiana surviving the merger.  Thereupon, Old Entergy Louisiana changed its name from “Entergy Louisiana, LLC” to “EL Investment Company, LLC” and New Entergy Louisiana changed its name from “Entergy Louisiana Power, LLC” to “Entergy Louisiana, LLC” (Entergy Louisiana).  With the completion of the business combination, Entergy Louisiana holds substantially all of the assets, and has assumed the liabilities, of Old Entergy Louisiana and Old Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for additional discussion of the business combination.

Entergy New Orleans Internal Restructuring

In November 2017, pursuant to the agreement in principle, Entergy New Orleans, Inc. undertook a multi-step restructuring, including the following:

•

Entergy New Orleans, Inc. redeemed its outstanding preferred stock at a price of approximately

$21 million

, which included a call premium of approximately

$819,000

, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends.

•

Entergy New Orleans, Inc. converted from a Louisiana corporation to a Texas corporation.

•

Under the Texas Business Organizations Code (TXBOC), Entergy New Orleans, Inc. allocated substantially all of its assets to a new subsidiary, Entergy New Orleans Power, LLC, a Texas limited liability company (Entergy New Orleans Power), and Entergy New Orleans Power assumed substantially all of the liabilities of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. in a transaction regarded as a merger under the TXBOC.  Entergy New Orleans, Inc. remained in existence and held the membership interests in Entergy New Orleans Power.

•

Entergy New Orleans, Inc. contributed the membership interests in Entergy New Orleans Power to an affiliate (Entergy Utility Holding Company, LLC, a Texas limited liability company and subsidiary of Entergy Corporation).  As a result of the contribution, Entergy New Orleans Power is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy Utility Holding Company, LLC.

In December 2017, Entergy New Orleans, Inc. changed its name to Entergy Utility Group, Inc., and Entergy New Orleans Power then changed its name to Entergy New Orleans, LLC.  Entergy New Orleans, LLC holds substantially all of the assets, and has assumed substantially all of the liabilities, of Entergy New Orleans, Inc.  The restructuring was accounted for as a transaction between entities under common control.

Earnings Ratios of Registrant Subsidiaries

The Registrant Subsidiaries’ ratios of earnings to fixed charges and ratios of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred dividends or distributions pursuant to Item 503 of SEC Regulation S-K are as follows:





The Registrant Subsidiaries accrue interest expense related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense and do not include it in fixed charges.

Entergy Wholesale Commodities

Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership, operation, and decommissioning of nuclear power plants, located in the northern United States and the sale of the electric power produced by its operating plants to wholesale customers.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities revenues are primarily derived from sales of energy and generation capacity from these plants.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also provides operations and management services, including decommissioning services, to nuclear power plants owned by other utilities in the United States.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also includes the ownership of interests in non-nuclear power plants that sell the electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers.

On December 29, 2014, Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ Vermont Yankee plant was removed from the grid, after 42 years of operations.  The decision to close and decommission Vermont Yankee, which was announced in August 2013, was due to numerous issues including sustained low natural gas and wholesale energy prices, the high cost structure of the plant, and lack of a market structure that adequately compensates merchant nuclear plants for their environmental and fuel diversity benefits in the Northeast region.  In November 2016, Entergy entered into an agreement to sell 100% of its membership interest in Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee, LLC to a subsidiary of NorthStar.  Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee is the owner of the Vermont Yankee plant.  The sale of Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee to NorthStar will include the transfer of Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee’s nuclear decommissioning trust fund and the asset retirement obligation for spent fuel management and decommissioning of the plant.  Entergy plans to transfer all spent nuclear fuel to dry cask storage by the end of 2018 in advance of the planned transaction close.  Under the sale and related agreements to be entered into at the closing, NorthStar will commit to initiate decommissioning and site restoration by 2021 and complete those activities, along with partial restoration of the Vermont Yankee site, with the exception of the independent spent fuel storage installation and switchyard, by 2030.  The original completion date, as outlined in Entergy’s Post Shutdown Decommissioning Activities Report filed with the NRC, was 2075.  The transaction is contingent upon certain closing conditions, including approval by the NRC; approval by the State of Vermont Public Utility Commission, including approval of site restoration standards that will be proposed as part of the transaction; the transfer of all spent nuclear fuel to dry fuel storage on the independent spent fuel storage installation; and that the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning trust fund for the Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Station, less the hypothetical income tax on the aggregate unrealized net gain of such assets at closing, is equal to or exceeds $451.95 million, subject to adjustments.

In October 2015, Entergy determined that it would close the FitzPatrick plant at the end of its fuel cycle in January 2017.  In August 2016, Entergy entered into an agreement to sell the FitzPatrick plant to Exelon.  The transaction was contingent upon, among other things, the expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals from the FERC, the NRC, and the Public Service Commission of the State of New York (NYPSC), and the receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS.  Because certain specified conditions were satisfied in November 2016, including the continued effectiveness of the Clean Energy Standards/Zero Emissions Credit program (CES/ZEC), the establishment of certain long-term agreements on acceptable terms with the Energy Research and Development Authority of the State of New York in connection with the CES/ZEC program, and NYPSC approval of the transaction on acceptable terms, Entergy





refueled the FitzPatrick plant in January and February 2017.  The sale closed in March 2017 after obtaining all the necessary approvals.

In October 2015, Entergy determined that it would close the Pilgrim plant.  The decision came after management’s extensive analysis of the economics and operating life of the plant following the NRC’s decision in September 2015 to place the plant in its “multiple/repetitive degraded cornerstone column” (Column 4) of its Reactor Oversight Process Action Matrix.  The Pilgrim plant is expected to cease operations on May 31, 2019, after refueling in the spring of 2017 and operating through the end of that fuel cycle.

In December 2015, Entergy Wholesale Commodities closed on the sale of its 583 MW Rhode Island State Energy Center, in Johnston, Rhode Island.  The base sales price, excluding adjustments, was approximately $490 million.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities purchased the Rhode Island State Energy Center for $346 million in December 2011.

In December 2016, Entergy announced that it had reached an agreement with Consumers Energy to terminate the existing PPA for the Palisades plant on May 31, 2018.  Pursuant to the agreement, Consumers Energy would pay Entergy $172 million for the early termination of the PPA.  The PPA amendment agreement was subject to regulatory approvals, including approval by the Michigan Public Service Commission.  Separately, Entergy intended to shut down the Palisades nuclear power plant permanently on October 1, 2018, after refueling in the spring of 2017 and operating through the end of that fuel cycle.  In September 2017 the Michigan Public Service Commission issued an order conditionally approving the PPA amendment transaction, but granting Consumers Energy recovery of only $136.6 million of the $172 million requested early termination payment.  As a result, Entergy and Consumers Energy agreed to terminate the PPA amendment agreement.  Entergy will continue to operate Palisades under the current PPA with Consumers Energy, instead of shutting down in the fall of 2018 as previously planned.  Entergy intends to shut down the Palisades nuclear power plant permanently on May 31, 2022.

In January 2017, Entergy reached a settlement with New York State, several State agencies, and Riverkeeper, Inc., under which Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 will cease commercial operation by April 30, 2020 and April 30, 2021, respectively, subject to certain conditions, including New York State’s withdrawal of opposition to Indian Point’s license renewals and issuance of contested permits and similar authorizations.  See Note 14 to the financial statements for a discussion of the impairment and related charges associated with the settlement with New York State.

The Indian Point settlement required New York State agencies to issue environmental certifications needed for license renewal and a renewed water discharge permit based on current plant configuration.  It also required the New York State Attorney General and Riverkeeper to withdraw their contentions pending before the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board (ASLB).  In exchange, Entergy commits to cease commercial operation of Indian Point 2 by April 30, 2020 and Indian Point 3 by April 30, 2021.  These actions have been completed, all New York State approvals required for the NRC to issue renewed licenses have been granted, and the ASLB has terminated proceedings before it following the withdrawal of pending contentions.  The NRC is not expected to issue renewed licenses earlier than third quarter 2018, as its staff must complete updates to the record on environmental and safety matters (a supplement to the final supplemental environmental impact statement and a supplement to the final safety evaluation report).

With the settlement concerning Indian Point, Entergy has announced plans for the disposition of all of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants, including the sales of  Vermont Yankee and FitzPatrick, and the earlier than previously expected shutdowns of Pilgrim, Palisades, Indian Point 2, and Indian Point 3.  See “

Entergy Wholesale Commodities Exit from the Merchant Power Business

” for further discussion.





Property

Nuclear Generating Stations

Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership of the following nuclear power plants:

(a)

In October 2015, Entergy determined that it would close the Pilgrim plant no later than June 1, 2019, as discussed above.

(b)

In January 2017, Entergy announced that it reached a settlement with New York State to shut down Indian Point 2 by April 30, 2020 and Indian Point 3 by April 30, 2021, and resolve all New York State-initiated legal challenges to Indian Point’s operating license renewal.  See below for discussion of Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 entering their “period of extended operation” after expiration of the plants’ initial license terms under “timely renewal.”

(c)

On December 29, 2014, the Vermont Yankee plant ceased power production.  In November 2016, Entergy entered into an agreement to sell 100% of the membership interest in Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee, to NorthStar.  Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee is the owner of the Vermont Yankee plant.

(d)

In December 2016, Entergy announced that it had reached an agreement with Consumers Energy to terminate the existing PPA for the Palisades plant in 2018.  Separately, and assuming regulatory approvals are obtained for the PPA termination agreement, Entergy intended to shut down the Palisades nuclear power plant permanently on October 1, 2018, after refueling in the spring of 2017 and operating through the end of that fuel cycle.  In September 2017, as a result of the Michigan Public Service Commission’s order, Entergy and Consumers Energy agreed to terminate the PPA amendment agreement.  Entergy intends to shut down the Palisades nuclear power plant permanently on May 31, 2022.

In October 2015, Entergy determined that it would close the FitzPatrick plant at the end of the fuel cycle, in January 2017, but in August 2016, Entergy entered into an agreement to sell the FitzPatrick plant to Exelon, and the sale closed in March 2017.

Entergy Wholesale Commodities also includes the ownership of two non-operating nuclear facilities, Big Rock Point in Michigan and Indian Point 1 in New York that were acquired when Entergy purchased the Palisades and Indian Point 2 nuclear plants, respectively.  These facilities are in various stages of the decommissioning process.

In April 2007, Entergy submitted to the NRC a joint application to renew the operating licenses for Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 for an additional 20 years.  The original expiration dates of the NRC operating licenses for Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 were September 28, 2013 and December 12, 2015, respectively.  Authorization to operate Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 rests on Entergy’s having timely filed a license renewal application that remains pending before the NRC.  Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 have now entered their “period of extended operation” after expiration of the plants’ initial license term under “timely renewal,” which is a federal statutory rule of general applicability providing for extension of a license for which a renewal application has been timely filed with the licensing agency until the license renewal process has been completed.  The license renewal application for Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 qualifies for timely renewal protection because it met NRC regulatory standards for timely filing.  The NRC is not expected to issue renewed licenses earlier than third quarter 2018.  For additional discussion of the license renewal applications and the settlement with New York State, see “

Entergy Wholesale Commodities





Authorizations to Operate Indian Point

” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.

Non-nuclear Generating Stations

In November 2016, Entergy sold its 50% membership interest in Top Deer Wind Ventures, LLC, a wind-powered electric generation joint venture owned in the Entergy Wholesale Commodities segment and accounted for as an equity method investment.  Entergy sold its 50% membership interest in Top Deer for $0.5 million and realized a pre-tax loss of $0.2 million.

Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership, or interests in joint ventures that own, the following non-nuclear power plants:

(a)

“Net Owned Capacity” refers to the nameplate rating on the generating unit.

(b)

The owned MW capacity is the portion of the plant capacity owned by Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  For a complete listing of Entergy’s jointly-owned generating stations, refer to “

Jointly-Owned Generating Stations

” in Note 1 to the financial statements.

(c)

Indirectly owned through interests in unconsolidated joint ventures.

Independent System Operators

The Pilgrim plant falls under the authority of the Independent System Operator New England (ISO-NE) and the Indian Point plants fall under the authority of the New York Independent System Operator (NYISO).  The Palisades plant falls under the authority of the MISO.  The primary purpose of ISO-NE, NYISO, and MISO is to direct the operations of the major generation and transmission facilities in their respective regions; ensure grid reliability; administer and monitor wholesale electricity markets; and plan for their respective region’s energy needs.

Energy and Capacity Sales

As a wholesale generator, Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ core business is selling energy, measured in MWh, to its customers.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities enters into forward contracts with its customers and also sells energy in the day ahead or spot markets.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also sells unforced capacity, which allows load-serving entities to meet specified reserve and related requirements placed on them by the ISOs in their respective areas.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ forward physical power contracts consist of contracts to sell energy only, contracts to sell capacity only, and bundled contracts in which it sells both capacity and energy.  While the terminology and payment mechanics vary in these contracts, each of these types of contracts requires Entergy Wholesale Commodities to deliver MWh of energy, make capacity available, or both.

See “

Market and Credit Risk Sensitive Instruments

” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for additional information regarding these contracts.

As part of the purchase of the Palisades plant in 2007, Entergy executed a 15-year PPA with the seller, Consumers Energy, for 100% of the plant’s output, excluding any future uprates.  Under the purchased power agreement, Consumers Energy receives the value of any new environmental credits for the first ten years of the agreement.  Palisades and Consumers Energy will share on a 50/50 basis the value of any new environmental credits for years 11 through 15 of the agreement.  The environmental credits are defined as benefits from a change in law that causes capability of the plant as of the purchase date to become a tradable attribute (e.g., emission credit, renewable energy credit, environmental





credit, “green” credit, etc.) or otherwise to have a market value.  In December 2016, Entergy announced that it reached an agreement with Consumers Energy to terminate the existing PPA for the Palisades plant in 2018.  Entergy intended to shut down the Palisades nuclear power plant permanently on October 1, 2018, after refueling in the spring of 2017 and operating through the end of that fuel cycle.  In September 2017, as a result of the Michigan Public Service Commission’s order, Entergy and Consumers Energy agreed to terminate the PPA amendment agreement.  Entergy intends to shut down the Palisades nuclear power plant permanently on May 31, 2022.  See discussion above for additional details regarding the agreement.

Customers

Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ customers for the sale of both energy and capacity from its nuclear plants include retail power providers, utilities, electric power co-operatives, power trading organizations, and other power generation companies.  These customers include Consolidated Edison and Consumers Energy, companies from which Entergy purchased plants, and ISO-NE, NYISO, and MISO.  Substantially all of the credit exposure associated with the planned energy output under contract for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants is with counterparties or their guarantors that have public investment grade credit ratings.

Competition

The ISO-NE and NYISO markets are highly competitive.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities has numerous competitors in New England and New York, including generation companies affiliated with regulated utilities, other independent power producers, municipal and co-operative generators, owners of co-generation plants and wholesale power marketers.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities is an independent power producer, which means it generates power for sale to third parties at day ahead or spot market prices to the extent that the power is not sold under a fixed price contract.  Municipal and co-operative generators also generate power but use most of it to deliver power to their municipal or co-operative power customers.  Owners of co-generation plants produce power primarily for their own consumption.  Wholesale power marketers do not own generation; rather they buy power from generators or other market participants and resell it to retail providers or other market participants.  Competition in the New England and New York power markets is affected by, among other factors, the amount of generation and transmission capacity in these markets.  MISO does not have a centralized clearing capacity market, but load serving entities do meet the majority of their capacity needs through bilateral contracts and self-supply with a smaller portion coming through voluntary MISO auctions.  The majority of Palisades’ current output is contracted to Consumers Energy through 2022.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities does not expect to be materially affected by competition in the MISO market in the near term.

Seasonality

Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ revenues and operating income are subject to fluctuations during the year due to seasonal factors, weather conditions, and contract pricing.  Refueling outages are generally in the spring and fall, and cause volumetric decreases during those seasons.  When outdoor and cooling water temperatures are low, generally during colder months, Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants operate more efficiently, and consequently, generate more electricity.  Many of Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ contracts provide for shaped pricing over the course of the year.  As a result of these factors, Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ revenues are typically higher in the first and third quarters than in the second and fourth quarters.





Fuel Supply

Nuclear Fuel

See “

Fuel Supply

-

Nuclear Fuel

” in the Utility portion of Part I, Item 1 for a discussion of the nuclear fuel cycle and markets.  Entergy Nuclear Fuels Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary, is responsible for contracts to acquire nuclear materials, except for fuel fabrication, for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants, while Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc. acts as the agent for the purchase of nuclear fuel assembly fabrication services.  All contracts for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel are between the DOE and each of the nuclear power plant owners.

Other Business Activities

Entergy Nuclear Power Marketing, LLC (ENPM) was formed in 2005 to centralize the power marketing function for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants.  Upon its formation, ENPM entered into long-term power purchase agreements with the Entergy Wholesale Commodities subsidiaries that own nuclear power plants (generating subsidiaries).  As part of a series of agreements, ENPM agreed to assume and/or otherwise service the existing power purchase agreements that were in effect between the generating subsidiaries and their customers.  ENPM’s functions include origination of new energy and capacity transactions and generation scheduling.

Entergy Nuclear, Inc. can pursue service agreements with other nuclear power plant owners who seek the advantages of Entergy’s scale and expertise but do not necessarily want to sell their assets.  Services provided by either Entergy Nuclear, Inc. or other Entergy Wholesale Commodities subsidiaries include engineering, operations and maintenance, fuel procurement, management and supervision, technical support and training, administrative support, and other managerial or technical services required to operate, maintain, and decommission nuclear electric power facilities.  Entergy Nuclear, Inc. provided decommissioning services for the Maine Yankee nuclear power plant.

TLG Services, a subsidiary of Entergy Nuclear, Inc., offers decommissioning, engineering, and related services to nuclear power plant owners.

In September 2003, Entergy agreed to provide plant operation support services for the 800 MW Cooper Nuclear Station located near Brownville, Nebraska.  The original contract was to expire in 2014 corresponding to the original operating license life of the plant.  In 2006 an Entergy subsidiary signed an agreement to provide license renewal services for the Cooper Nuclear Station.  The Cooper Nuclear Station received its license renewal from the NRC in November 2010.  In 2010 an Entergy subsidiary signed an agreement to extend the management support services to Cooper Nuclear Station by 15 years, through January 2029.  In 2017 the contract was amended so that it could not be terminated prior to December 21, 2022.

Regulation of Entergy’s Business

Federal Power Act

The Federal Power Act provides the FERC the authority to regulate:

•

the transmission and wholesale sale of electric energy in interstate commerce;

•

the reliability of the high voltage interstate transmission system through reliability standards;

•

sale or acquisition of certain assets;

•

securities issuances;

•

the licensing of certain hydroelectric projects;

•

certain other activities, including accounting policies and practices of electric and gas utilities; and

•

changes in control of FERC jurisdictional entities or rate schedules.





The Federal Power Act gives the FERC jurisdiction over the rates charged by System Energy for Grand Gulf capacity and energy provided to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans and over some of the rates charged by Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Louisiana.  The FERC also regulates the provisions of the System Agreement, including the rates, and the provision of transmission service to wholesale market participants.  The FERC also regulates the MISO RTO, an independent entity that maintains functional control over the combined transmission systems of its members and administers wholesale energy, capacity, and ancillary services markets for market participants in the MISO region, including the Utility operating companies.  FERC regulation of the MISO RTO includes regulation of the design and implementation of the wholesale markets administered by the MISO RTO, as well as the rates, terms, and conditions of open access transmission service over the member systems and the allocation of costs associated with transmission upgrades.

Entergy Arkansas holds a FERC license that expires in 2053 for two hydroelectric projects totaling 70 MW of capacity.

State Regulation

Utility

Entergy Arkansas is subject to regulation by the APSC, which includes the authority to:

•

oversee utility service;

•

set retail rates;

•

determine reasonable and adequate service;

•

control leasing;

•

control the acquisition or sale of any public utility plant or property constituting an operating unit or system;

•

set rates of depreciation;

•

issue certificates of convenience and necessity and certificates of environmental compatibility and public need; and

•

regulate the issuance and sale of certain securities.

Additionally, Entergy Arkansas serves a limited number of retail customers in Tennessee.  Pursuant to recent legislation enacted in Tennessee, Entergy Arkansas is subject to complaints before the Tennessee Regulatory Authority only if it fails to treat its retail customers in Tennessee in the same manner as its retail customers in Arkansas.  Additionally, Entergy Arkansas maintains limited facilities in Missouri but does not provide retail electric service to customers in Missouri.  Although Entergy Arkansas obtained a certificate with respect to its Missouri facilities, Entergy Arkansas is not subject to the retail rate or regulatory scheme in Missouri.

Entergy Louisiana’s electric and gas business is subject to regulation by the LPSC as to:

•

utility service;

•

retail rates and charges;

•

certification of generating facilities and certain transmission projects;

•

certification of power or capacity purchase contracts;

•

audit of the fuel adjustment charge, environmental adjustment charge, and avoided cost payment to Qualifying Facilities;

•

integrated resource planning;

•

utility mergers and acquisitions and other changes of control; and

•

depreciation and other matters.





Entergy Mississippi is subject to regulation by the MPSC as to the following:

•

utility service;

•

service areas;

•

facilities;

•

certification of generating facilities and certain transmission projects;

•

retail rates;

•

fuel cost recovery;

•

depreciation rates; and

•

mergers and changes of control.

Entergy Mississippi is also subject to regulation by the APSC as to the certificate of environmental compatibility and public need for the Independence Station, which is located in Arkansas.

Entergy New Orleans is subject to regulation by the City Council as to the following:

•

utility service;

•

retail rates and charges;

•

standards of service;

•

depreciation and other matters;

•

issuance and sale of certain securities; and

•

mergers and changes of control.

To the extent authorized by governing legislation, Entergy Texas is subject to the original jurisdiction of the municipal authorities of a number of incorporated cities in Texas with appellate jurisdiction over such matters residing in the PUCT.  Entergy Texas is also subject to regulation by the PUCT as to:

•

retail rates and service in unincorporated areas of its service territory, and in municipalities that have ceded jurisdiction to the PUCT;

•

customer service standards;

•

certification of certain transmission and generation projects; and

•

extensions of service into new areas.

Regulation of the Nuclear Power Industry

Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and Energy Reorganization Act of 1974

Under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, the operation of nuclear plants is heavily regulated by the NRC, which has broad power to impose licensing and safety-related requirements.  The NRC has broad authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, as owners of all or portions of ANO, River Bend and Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, respectively, and Entergy Operations, as the licensee and operator of these units, are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC.  Entergy subsidiaries in the Entergy Wholesale Commodities segment are subject to the NRC’s jurisdiction as the owners and operators of Pilgrim, Indian Point Energy Center, Vermont Yankee, and Palisades.  Substantial capital expenditures, increased operating expenses, and/or higher decommissioning costs at Entergy’s nuclear plants because of revised safety requirements of the NRC could be required in the future.





Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982

Spent Nuclear Fuel

Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the DOE is required, for a specified fee, to construct storage facilities for, and to dispose of, all spent nuclear fuel and other high-level radioactive waste generated by domestic nuclear power reactors.  Entergy’s nuclear owner/licensee subsidiaries have been charged fees for the estimated future disposal costs of spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982.  The affected Entergy companies entered into contracts with the DOE, whereby the DOE is to furnish disposal services at a cost of one mill per net kWh generated and sold after April 7, 1983, plus a one-time fee for generation prior to that date.  Entergy Arkansas is the only one of the Utility operating companies that generated electric power with nuclear fuel prior to that date and has a recorded liability as of December 31, 2017 of $183.3 million for the one-time fee.  Entergy accepted assignment of the Pilgrim, FitzPatrick and Indian Point 3, Indian Point 1 and Indian Point 2, Vermont Yankee, Palisades, and Big Rock Point spent fuel disposal contracts with the DOE held by their previous owners.  The FitzPatrick spent fuel disposal contract was assigned to Exelon as part of the sale of the plant, completed in March 2017.  The previous owners have paid or retained liability for the fees for all generation prior to the purchase dates of those plants.  The fees payable to the DOE may be adjusted in the future to assure full recovery.  Entergy considers all costs incurred for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel, except accrued interest, to be proper components of nuclear fuel expense.  Provisions to recover such costs have been or will be made in applications to regulatory authorities for the Utility plants.  Entergy’s total spent fuel fees to date, including the one-time fee liability of Entergy Arkansas, have surpassed $1.6 billion (exclusive of amounts relating to Entergy plants that were paid or are owed by prior owners of those plants).

The permanent spent fuel repository in the U.S. has been legislated to be Yucca Mountain, Nevada.  The DOE is required by law to proceed with the licensing (the DOE filed the license application in June 2008) and, after the license is granted by the NRC, proceed with the repository construction and commencement of receipt of spent fuel.  Because the DOE has not begun accepting spent fuel, it is in non-compliance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 and has breached its spent fuel disposal contracts.  The DOE continues to delay meeting its obligation.  Specific steps were taken to discontinue the Yucca Mountain project, including a motion to the NRC to withdraw the license application with prejudice and the establishment of a commission to develop recommendations for alternative spent fuel storage solutions.  In August 2013 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit ordered the NRC to continue with the Yucca Mountain license review, but only to the extent of funds previously appropriated by Congress for that purpose and not yet used.  Although the NRC completed the safety evaluation report for the license review in 2015, the previously appropriated funds are not sufficient to complete the review, including required hearings.  The government has taken no effective action to date related to the recommendations of the appointed spent fuel study commission.  Accordingly, large uncertainty remains regarding the time frame under which the DOE will begin to accept spent fuel from Entergy’s facilities for storage or disposal.  As a result, continuing future expenditures will be required to increase spent fuel storage capacity at Entergy’s nuclear sites.

Following the defunding of the Yucca Mountain spent fuel repository program, the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners and others sued the government seeking cessation of collection of the one mill per net kWh generated and sold after April 7, 1983 fee.  In November 2013 the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ordered the DOE to submit a proposal to Congress to reset the fee to zero until the DOE complies with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act or Congress enacts an alternative waste disposal plan.  In January 2014 the DOE submitted the proposal to Congress under protest, and also filed a petition for rehearing with the D.C. Circuit.  The petition for rehearing was denied.  The zero spent fuel fee went into effect prospectively in May 2014.  Management cannot predict the potential timing or magnitude of future spent fuel fee revisions that may occur.

As a result of the DOE’s failure to begin disposal of spent nuclear fuel in 1998 pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 and the spent fuel disposal contracts, Entergy’s nuclear owner/licensee subsidiaries have incurred and will continue to incur damages.  These subsidiaries have been, and continue to be, involved in litigation to recover the damages caused by the DOE’s delay in performance.  Through 2017, Entergy’s subsidiaries won and collected on judgments against the government totaling over $500 million.





In April 2015 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a judgment in the amount of $29 million in favor of Entergy Arkansas and against the DOE in the second round ANO damages case.  Also in April 2015 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a judgment in the amount of $44 million in favor of System Energy and against the DOE in the second round Grand Gulf damages case.  In June 2015, Entergy Arkansas and System Energy appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit portions of those decisions relating to cask loading costs. In April 2016 the Federal Circuit issued a decision in both appeals in favor of Entergy Arkansas and System Energy, and remanded the cases back to the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. In June 2016 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a final judgment in the amount of $49 million in favor of System Energy and against the DOE in the second round Grand Gulf damages case, and Entergy received the payment from the U.S. Treasury in August 2016. In July 2016 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a final judgment in the amount of $31 million in favor of Entergy Arkansas and against the DOE in the second round ANO damages case, and Entergy received payment from the U.S. Treasury in October 2016.

In May 2015 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a final partial summary judgment on a portion, $21 million, of the claims in the Palisades case.  The DOE did not appeal that decision, and Entergy received the payment from the U.S. Treasury in October 2015.

In December 2015 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a judgment in the amount of $81 million in favor of Entergy Nuclear Indian Point 3 and Entergy Nuclear FitzPatrick in the first round Indian Point 3/FitzPatrick damages case, and Entergy received the payment from the U.S. Treasury in June 2016.

In January 2016 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a judgment in the amount of $49 million in favor of Entergy Louisiana and against the DOE in the first round Waterford 3 damages case.  In April 2016, Entergy Louisiana appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit the portion of that decision relating to cask loading costs.  After the ANO and Grand Gulf appeal was rendered, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit remanded the Waterford 3 case back to the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for decision in accordance with the U.S. Court of Appeals ruling on cask loading costs.  In August 2016 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a final judgment in the Waterford 3 case in the amount of $53 million, and Entergy Louisiana received the payment from the U.S. Treasury in November 2016.

In April 2016 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a partial judgment in the amount of $42 million in favor of Entergy Louisiana and against the DOE in the first round River Bend damages case, reserving the issue of cask loading costs pending resolution of the appeal on the same issues in the Entergy Arkansas and System Energy cases.  Entergy Louisiana received payment from the U.S. Treasury in August 2016.  In September 2016 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a further judgment in the River Bend case in the amount of $5 million. Entergy Louisiana received the payment from the U.S. Treasury in January 2017.  In May 2017 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a final judgment in the first round River Bend damages case for $0.6 million, awarding certain cask loading costs that had not previously been adjudicated by the court.

In May 2016, Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee and the DOE entered into a stipulated agreement and the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a judgment in the amount of $19 million in favor of Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee and against the DOE in the second round Vermont Yankee damages case.  Entergy received payment from the U.S. Treasury in June 2016.

In September 2016 the U.S. Court of Federal Claims issued a final judgment in the Entergy Nuclear Palisades case in the amount of $14 million.  Entergy Nuclear Palisades received payment from the U.S. Treasury in January 2017.

In October 2016 the U.S. Supreme Court of Federal Claims issued a judgment in the second round Entergy Nuclear Indian Point 2 case in the amount of $34 million. Entergy Nuclear Indian Point 2 received payment from the U.S. Treasury in January 2017.





Management cannot predict the timing or amount of any potential recoveries on other claims filed by Entergy subsidiaries, and cannot predict the timing of any eventual receipt from the DOE of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims damage awards.

Pending DOE acceptance and disposal of spent nuclear fuel, the owners of nuclear plants are providing their own spent fuel storage.  Storage capability additions using dry casks began operations at Palisades in 1993, at ANO in 1996, at FitzPatrick in 2002, at River Bend in 2005, at Grand Gulf in 2006, at Indian Point and Vermont Yankee in 2008, at Waterford 3 in 2011, and at Pilgrim in 2015.  These facilities will be expanded as needed.

Nuclear Plant Decommissioning

Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy are entitled to recover from customers through electric rates the estimated decommissioning costs for ANO, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, respectively.  In addition, Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Texas are entitled to recover from customers through electric rates the estimated decommissioning costs for the portion of River Bend subject to retail rate regulation.  The collections are deposited in trust funds that can only be used for future decommissioning costs.  Entergy periodically reviews and updates the estimated decommissioning costs to reflect inflation and changes in regulatory requirements and technology, and then makes applications to the regulatory authorities to reflect, in rates, the changes in projected decommissioning costs.

In July 2010 the LPSC approved increased decommissioning collections for Waterford 3 and the Louisiana regulated share of River Bend and in December 2010 the PUCT approved increased decommissioning collections for the Texas share of River Bend to address previously identified funding shortfalls.  In December 2016 the APSC ordered continued collections for decommissioning for ANO 2, while finding that ANO 1’s decommissioning was adequately funded without continued collections.  In December 2017 the APSC ordered continued collections for decommissioning for ANO 2, and again found that ANO 1’s decommissioning was adequately funded without continued collections.  In September 2016 the NRC issued a 20-year operating license renewal for Grand Gulf.  In a 2017 filing at the FERC, System Energy stated that with the renewed operating license, Grand Gulf’s decommissioning trust was sufficiently funded, and proposed (among other things) to cease decommissioning collections for Grand Gulf effective October 1, 2017.  The FERC accepted the proposal subject to refund, and appointed a settlement judge to oversee settlement negotiations in the case.  Entergy currently believes its decommissioning funding will be sufficient for its nuclear plants subject to retail rate regulation, although decommissioning cost inflation and trust fund performance will ultimately determine the adequacy of the funding amounts.

In November 2016, Entergy entered into an agreement to sell 100% of the membership interest in Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee to a subsidiary of NorthStar. Upon closing of the sale, NorthStar will assume ownership of Vermont Yankee and its decommissioning and site restoration trusts, together with complete responsibility for the facility’s decommissioning and site restoration. The sale is subject to certain closing conditions, including approval from the NRC and the State of Vermont Public Utility Commission.  See Note 9 to the financial statements for further discussion of Vermont Yankee decommissioning costs and see “

Entergy Wholesale Commodities Exit from the Merchant Power Business

” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for further discussion of the NorthStar transaction.

For the Indian Point 3 and FitzPatrick plants purchased in 2000 from NYPA, NYPA retained the decommissioning trust funds and the decommissioning liabilities with the right to require the Entergy subsidiaries to assume each of the decommissioning liabilities provided that it assigns the corresponding decommissioning trust, up to a specified level, to the Entergy subsidiaries.  In August 2016, Entergy entered into a trust transfer agreement with NYPA to transfer the decommissioning trust funds and decommissioning liabilities for the Indian Point 3 and FitzPatrick plants to Entergy, which was completed in January 2017.  In March 2017, Entergy sold the FitzPatrick plant to Exelon, and as part of the transaction, the FitzPatrick decommissioning trust fund, along with the decommissioning obligation for that plant, was transferred to Exelon. The FitzPatrick spent fuel disposal contract was assigned to Exelon as part of the transaction.  See Note 14 to the financial statements for discussion of the FitzPatrick sale.





In March 2017 filings with the NRC were made for certain Entergy subsidiaries’ nuclear plants reporting on decommissioning funding.  Those reports showed that decommissioning funding for each of those nuclear plants met the NRC’s financial assurance requirements.

Additional information with respect to Entergy’s decommissioning costs and decommissioning trust funds is found in Note 9 and Note 16 to the financial statements.

Price-Anderson Act

The Price-Anderson Act requires that reactor licensees purchase and maintain the maximum amount of nuclear liability insurance available and participate in an industry assessment program called Secondary Financial Protection in order to protect the public in the event of a nuclear power plant accident.  The costs of this insurance are borne by the nuclear power industry.  Congress amended and renewed the Price-Anderson Act in 2005 for a term through 2025.  The Price-Anderson Act limits the contingent liability for a single nuclear incident to a maximum assessment of approximately $127.3 million per reactor (with 102 nuclear industry reactors currently participating).  In the case of a nuclear event in which Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, System Energy, or an Entergy Wholesale Commodities company is liable, protection is afforded through a combination of private insurance and the Secondary Financial Protection program.  In addition to this, insurance for property damage, costs of replacement power, and other risks relating to nuclear generating units is also purchased.  The Price-Anderson Act and insurance applicable to the nuclear programs of Entergy are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to the financial statements.

NRC Reactor Oversight Process

The NRC’s Reactor Oversight Process is a program to collect information about plant performance, assess the information for its safety significance, and provide for appropriate licensee and NRC response.  The NRC evaluates plant performance by analyzing two distinct inputs: inspection findings resulting from the NRC’s inspection program and performance indicators reported by the licensee.  The evaluations result in the placement of each plant in one of the NRC’s Reactor Oversight Process Action Matrix columns: “licensee response column,” or Column 1, “regulatory response column,” or Column 2, “degraded cornerstone column,” or Column 3, and “multiple/repetitive degraded cornerstone column,” or Column 4.  Plants in Column 1 are subject to normal NRC inspection activities.  Plants in Column 2, Column 3, or Column 4 are subject to progressively increasing levels of inspection by the NRC with, in general, progressively increasing levels of associated costs.  Waterford 3, River Bend, Indian Point 2, Indian Point 3, and Palisades are in Column 1. Grand Gulf is in Column 2.  ANO 1 and 2 are in Column 4, and are subject to an extensive set of required NRC inspections.  Pilgrim is also in Column 4 and is subject to an extensive, but limited, set of required NRC inspections.  See Note 8 to the financial statements for further discussion of the placement of ANO 1 and 2, and Pilgrim in Column 4 of the NRC’s matrix.

Environmental Regulation

Entergy’s facilities and operations are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities having jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes, and other environmental matters.  Management believes that Entergy’s businesses are in substantial compliance with environmental regulations currently applicable to its facilities and operations, with reference to possible exceptions noted below.  Because environmental regulations are subject to change, future compliance requirements and costs cannot be precisely estimated.  Except to the extent discussed below, at this time compliance with federal, state, and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise protecting the environment, is incorporated into the routine cost structure of Entergy’s businesses and is not expected to have a material effect on their competitive position, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position.





Clean Air Act and Subsequent Amendments

The Clean Air Act and its amendments establish several programs that currently or in the future may affect Entergy’s fossil-fueled generation facilities and, to a lesser extent, certain operations at nuclear and other  facilities.  Individual states also operate similar independent state programs or delegated federal programs that may include requirements more stringent than federal regulatory requirements.  These programs include:

•

New source review and preconstruction permits for new sources of criteria air pollutants, greenhouse gases, and significant modifications to existing facilities;

•

Acid rain program for control of sulfur dioxide (SO


) and nitrogen oxides (NO

x

);

•

Nonattainment area programs for control of criteria air pollutants, which could include fee assessments for air pollutant emission sources under Section 185 of the Clean Air Act if attainment is not reached in a timely manner;

•

Hazardous air pollutant emissions reduction programs;

•

Interstate Air Transport;

•

Operating permit programs and enforcement of these and other Clean Air Act programs;

•

Regional Haze programs; and

•

New and existing source standards for greenhouse gas emissions.

New Source Review (NSR)

Preconstruction permits are required for new facilities and for existing facilities that undergo a modification that results in a significant net emissions increase and is not classified as routine repair, maintenance, or replacement.  Units that undergo certain non-routine modifications must obtain a permit modification and may be required to install additional air pollution control technologies. Entergy has an established process for identifying modifications requiring additional permitting approval and follows the regulations and associated guidance provided by the states and the federal government with regard to the determination of routine repair, maintenance, and replacement.  In recent years, however, the EPA has begun an enforcement initiative, aimed primarily at coal plants, to identify modifications that it does not consider routine for which the unit did not obtain a modified permit.  Various courts and the EPA have been inconsistent in their judgments regarding modifications that are considered routine and on other legal issues that affect this program.

In February 2011, Entergy received a request from the EPA for several categories of information concerning capital and maintenance projects at the White Bluff and Independence facilities, both located in Arkansas, in order to determine compliance with the Clean Air Act, including NSR requirements and air permits issued by the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality.  In August 2011, Entergy’s Nelson facility, located in Louisiana, received a similar request for information from the EPA.  In September 2015 a subsequent request for similar information was received for the White Bluff facility.  Entergy responded to all requests.  None of these EPA requests for information alleged that the facilities were in violation of law.

In January 2018 and February 2018, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy Power, and other co-owners received 60-day notice of intent to sue letters from the Sierra Club and the National Parks Conservation Association concerning allegations of violations of new source review and permitting provisions of the Clean Air Act at the Independence and White Bluff coal-burning units, respectively.  Entergy is reviewing these claims and will respond accordingly.





Ozone Nonattainment

Entergy Texas operates one fossil-fueled generating facility (Lewis Creek) and is in the process of permitting and constructing one fossil-fueled facility (Montgomery Count Power Station) in a geographic area that is not in attainment with the currently-enforced national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) for ozone.  The nonattainment area that affects Entergy Texas is the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area.  Areas in nonattainment are classified as “marginal,” “moderate,” “serious,” or “severe.”  When an area fails to meet the ambient air standard, the EPA requires state regulatory authorities to prepare state implementation plans meant to cause progress toward bringing the area into attainment with applicable standards.

The Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area was originally classified as “moderate” nonattainment under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard with an attainment date of June 15, 2010.  In June 2007 the Texas governor petitioned the EPA to reclassify Houston-Galveston-Brazoria from “moderate” to “severe” and the EPA granted the request in October 2008.  In February 2015 the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) submitted a request to the EPA for a finding that the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area is in attainment with the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.  The EPA issued this finding in December 2015.  In April 2015 the EPA revoked the 1997 ozone NAAQS and in May 2016, the EPA issued a proposed rule approving a substitute for the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area.  This redesignation indicates that the area has attained the revoked 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS due to permanent and enforceable emission reductions and that it will maintain that NAAQS for 10 years from the date of the approval.  Final approval, which was effective in December 2016, resulted in the area no longer being subject to any remaining anti-backsliding or non-attainment new source review requirements associated with the revoked 1997 NAAQS.

In March 2008 the EPA revised the NAAQS for ozone, creating the potential for additional counties and parishes in which Entergy operates to be placed in nonattainment status.  In April 2012 the EPA released its final non-attainment designations for the 2008 ozone NAAQS.  In Entergy’s utility service area, the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria, Texas; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Memphis, Tennessee/Mississippi/Arkansas areas were designated as in “marginal” nonattainment.  In August 2015 and January 2016, the EPA proposed determinations that the Baton Rouge and Memphis areas had attained the 2008 standard.  In May 2016 the EPA finalized those determinations and extended the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area’s attainment date for the 2008 Ozone standard to July 20, 2016 and reclassified the Baton Rouge area as attainment for ozone under the 2008 8-hour ozone standard.  In December 2016 the EPA determined that the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area had failed to attain the 2008 ozone standard by the 2016 attainment date.  This finding reclassifies the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area from marginal to “moderate.”

In October 2015 the EPA issued a final rule lowering the primary and secondary NAAQS for ozone to a level of 70 parts per billion.  States were required to assess their attainment status and recommend designations to the EPA.  In January 2018 the EPA proposed that the following counties and parishes in Entergy’s service territory be listed as in non-attainment: in Louisiana, Ascension Parish, East Baton Rouge Parish, West Baton Rouge Parish, Iberville Parish,  and Livingston Parish; in Texas, Montgomery County.   In addition to Lewis Creek in Montgomery County, Texas, Entergy owns or operates fossil-fueled generating units in East Baton Rouge Parish (Louisiana Station) and in Iberville Parish (Willow Glen), Louisiana.  The EPA’s final designations are pending.  Entergy will continue to work with state environmental agencies on appropriate methods for assessing attainment and non-attainment with the new standard and, where necessary, in planning for compliance.  Following designations by the EPA, states will be required to develop plans intended to return non-attainment areas to a condition of attainment.  The timing for that action depends largely on the severity of non-attainment in a given area.

Potential SO


Nonattainment

The EPA issued a final rule in June 2010 adopting an SO


1-hour national ambient air quality standard of 75 parts per billion.  The EPA designations for counties in attainment and nonattainment were originally due in June 2012, but the EPA indicated that it would delay designations except for those areas with existing monitoring data from 2009 to 2011 indicating violations of the new standard.  In August 2013 the EPA issued final designations for these areas.  In Entergy’s utility service territory, only St. Bernard Parish in Louisiana is designated as non-attainment for the SO






1-hour national ambient air quality standard of 75 parts per billion.  Entergy does not have a generation asset in that parish.  In July 2016 the EPA finalized another round of designations for areas with newly monitored violations of the 2010 standard and those with stationary sources that emit over a threshold amount of SO


.  Counties and parishes in which Entergy owns and operates fossil generating facilities that were included in this round of designations include Independence County and Jefferson County, Arkansas and Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana.  Independence County and Calcasieu Parish were designated “unclassifiable,” and Jefferson County was designated “unclassifiable/attainment.”  In August 2015 the EPA issued a final data requirement rule for the SO


1-hour standard.  This rule will guide the process to be followed by the states and the EPA to determine the appropriate designation for the remaining unclassified areas in the country.  In August 2017 the EPA issued a letter indicating that East Baton Rouge and St. Charles parishes would be designated by December 31, 2020 as monitors were installed to determine compliance.  In January 2018 the EPA published a final rule designating a third round of attainment and non-attainment areas.  Evangeline Parish, Louisiana, was designated non-attainment.  Entergy does not have a generation asset in that parish.  Additional capital projects or operational changes may be required to continue operating Entergy facilities in areas eventually designated as in non-attainment of the standard or designated as contributing to non-attainment areas.

Hazardous Air Pollutants

The EPA released the final Mercury and Air Toxics Standard (MATS) rule in December 2011, which had a compliance date, with a widely granted one-year extension, of April 2016.  The required controls have been installed and are operational at all affected Entergy units.

Cross-State Air Pollution

In March 2005 the EPA finalized the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which was intended to reduce SO


and NO

x

emissions from electric generation plants in order to improve air quality in twenty-nine eastern states.  The rule required a combination of capital investment to install pollution control equipment and increased operating costs through the purchase of emission allowances.  Entergy began implementation in 2007, including installation of controls at several facilities and the development of an emission allowance procurement strategy.

Based on several court challenges, CAIR and its subsequent versions, now known as the Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR), have been remanded to and modified by the EPA on multiple occasions.  In July 2015 the D.C. Circuit invalidated the allowance budgets created by the EPA for several states, including Texas, and remanded that portion of the rule to the EPA for further action.  The court did not stay or vacate the rule in the interim.  CSAPR remains in effect.

The CSAPR Phase 1 implementation became effective January 1, 2015.  Entergy has developed a compliance plan that could, over time, include both installation of controls at certain facilities and an emission allowance procurement strategy.

In September 2016 the EPA finalized the CSAPR Update Rule to address interstate transport for the 2008 ozone NAAQS.  Starting in 2017 the final rule will require reductions in summer nitrogen oxides (NO

x

) emissions.  Several states, including Arkansas and Texas, filed a challenge to the Update Rule, which remains pending.

Regional Haze

In June 2005 the EPA issued its final Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR) regulations that potentially could result in a requirement to install SO


and NO

x

pollution control technology as Best Available Retrofit Control Technology (BART) to continue operating certain of Entergy’s fossil generation units.  The rule leaves certain CAVR determinations to the states.

In Arkansas, the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality prepared a state implementation plan (SIP) for Arkansas facilities to implement its obligations under the CAVR.   In April 2012 the EPA finalized a decision





addressing the Arkansas Regional Haze SIP, in which it disapproved a large portion of the Arkansas plan, including the emission limits for NO

x

and SO


at White Bluff.  In April 2015 the EPA published a proposed federal implementation plan (FIP) for Arkansas, taking comment on requiring installation of scrubbers and low NO

x

burners to continue operating both units at the White Bluff plant and both units at the Independence plant and NO

x

controls to continue operating the Lake Catherine plant.  Entergy filed comments by the deadline in August 2015.  Among other comments, including opposition to the EPA’s proposed controls on the Independence units, Entergy proposed to meet more stringent SO


and NO

x

limits at both White Bluff and Independence within three years of the effective date of the final FIP and to cease the use of coal at the White Bluff units at a later date.

In September 2016 the EPA published the final Arkansas Regional Haze FIP.  In most respects, the EPA finalized its original proposal but shortened the time for compliance for installation of the NO

x

controls.  The FIP required an emission limitation consistent with SO


scrubbers at both White Bluff and Independence by October 2021 and NO

x

controls by April 2018.  The EPA declined to adopt Entergy’s proposals related to ceasing coal use as an alternative to SO


scrubbers for White Bluff SO


BART.  In November 2016, Entergy and other interested parties, including the State of Arkansas, filed petitions for administrative reconsideration and stay at the EPA as well as petitions for judicial review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.  The Eighth Circuit continues to review its prior grant of the government’s motion to hold the appeal litigation in abeyance pending settlement discussions and pending the State’s development of a SIP that, if approved by the EPA, would replace the FIP.  The state has proposed its replacement SIP in two parts: Part I considers NO

x

requirements, and Part II considers SO


requirements.  The EPA approved the Part I NO

x

SIP in January 2018.  Arkansas has proposed a Part II SIP which is still under consideration at the state level.  The public comment period on Part II ended on February 2, 2018.

In Louisiana, Entergy worked with the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LDEQ) and the EPA to revise the Louisiana SIP for regional haze, which was disapproved in part in 2012.  The LDEQ submitted a revised SIP in February 2017.  In May 2017 the EPA proposed to approve a majority of the revisions.  In September 2017 the EPA issued a proposed SIP approval for the Nelson plant, requiring an emission limitation consistent with the use of low-sulfur coal, with a compliance date three years from the effective date of the final EPA approval.  The EPA’s final approval decision was issued in December 2017 and is on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

New and Existing Source Performance Standards for Greenhouse Gas Emissions

As a part of a climate plan announced in June 2013, the EPA was directed to (i) reissue proposed carbon pollution standards for new power plants by September 20, 2013, with finalization of the rules to occur in a timely manner; (ii) issue proposed carbon pollution standards, regulations, or guidelines, as appropriate, for modified, reconstructed, and existing power plants no later than June 1, 2014; (iii) finalize those rules by no later than June 1, 2015; and (iv) include in the guidelines addressing existing power plants a requirement that states submit to the EPA the implementation plans required under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act and its implementing regulations by no later than June 30, 2016.  In January 2014 the EPA issued the proposed New Source Performance Standards rule for new sources.    In June 2014 the EPA issued proposed standards for existing power plants.  Entergy was actively engaged in the rulemaking process, and submitted comments to the EPA in December 2014.  The EPA issued the final rules for both new and existing sources in August 2015, and they were published in the Federal Register in October 2015.  The existing source rule, also called the Clean Power Plan, requires states to develop plans for compliance with the EPA’s emission standards.  In February 2016 the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay halting the effectiveness of the rule until the rule is reviewed by the D.C. Circuit and by the U.S. Supreme Court, if further review is granted.  In March 2017 the current administration issued an executive order entitled “Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth” instructing the EPA to review and then to suspend, revise, or rescind the Clean Power Plan, if appropriate.  The EPA subsequently asked the D.C. Circuit to hold the challenges to the Clean Power Plan and the greenhouse gas new source performance standards in abeyance and signed a notice of withdrawal of the proposed federal plan, model trading rules, and the Clean Energy Incentive Program.  The court placed the litigation in abeyance in April 2017.  The EPA Administrator also sent a letter to the affected governors explaining that states are not currently required to meet Clean Power Plan deadlines, some of which have passed.  In October 2017 the EPA proposed a new rule that would repeal the Clean Power Plan on the grounds that it exceeds the EPA’s statutory authority under the Clean Air Act.  In December





2017 the EPA issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking regarding section 111(d), seeking comment on the form and content of a replacement for the Clean Power Plan, if one is promulgated.  Entergy will continue to be engaged in this rulemaking process.

Potential Legislative, Regulatory, and Judicial Developments

In addition to the specific instances described above, there are a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives concerning air emissions, as well as other media, that are under consideration at the federal, state, and local level.  Because of the nature of Entergy’s business, the imposition of any of these initiatives could affect Entergy’s operations.  Entergy continues to monitor these initiatives and activities in order to analyze their potential operational and cost implications.  These initiatives include:

•

designation by the EPA and state environmental agencies of areas that are not in attainment with national ambient air quality standards;

•

introduction of bills in Congress and development of regulations by the EPA proposing further limits on NO

x

, SO


, mercury, and carbon dioxide and other air emissions.  New legislation or regulations applicable to stationary sources could take the form of market-based cap-and-trade programs, direct requirements for the installation of air emission controls onto air emission sources, or other or combined regulatory programs;

•

efforts in Congress or at the EPA to establish a mandatory federal carbon dioxide emission control structure or unit performance standards;

•

revisions to the estimates of the Social Cost of Carbon and its use for regulatory impact analysis of Federal laws and regulations;

•

implementation of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative by several states in the northeastern United States and similar actions in other regions of the United States;

•

efforts on the state and federal level to codify renewable portfolio standards, a clean energy standard, or a similar mechanism requiring utilities to produce or purchase a certain percentage of their power from defined renewable energy sources or energy sources with lower emissions;

•

efforts to develop more stringent state water quality standards, effluent limitations for Entergy’s industry sector, stormwater runoff control regulations, and cooling water intake structure requirements;

•

efforts to restrict the previously-approved continued use of oil-filled equipment containing certain levels of PCBs;

•

efforts by certain external groups to encourage reporting and disclosure of carbon dioxide emissions and risk;

•

the listing of additional species as threatened or endangered, the protection of critical habitat for these species, and developments in the legal protection of eagles and migratory birds; and

•

the regulation of the management, disposal, and beneficial reuse of coal combustion residuals.

Entergy continues to support national legislation that would increase planning certainty for electric utilities while addressing carbon dioxide emissions in a responsible and flexible manner.  By virtue of its proportionally large investment in low-emitting gas-fired and nuclear generation technologies, Entergy has a low overall carbon dioxide emission “intensity,” or rate of carbon dioxide emitted per megawatt-hour of electricity generated.  In anticipation of the imposition of carbon dioxide emission limits on the electric industry in the future, Entergy initiated actions designed to reduce its exposure to potential new governmental requirements related to carbon dioxide emissions.  These voluntary actions included establishment of a formal program to stabilize power plant carbon dioxide emissions at 2000 levels through 2005, and Entergy succeeded in reducing emissions below 2000 levels. Total carbon dioxide emissions representing Entergy’s ownership share of power plants in the United States were approximately 53.2 million tons in 2000 and 35.6 million tons in 2005.  In 2006, Entergy changed its method of calculating emissions to include emissions from controllable power purchases as well as its ownership share of generation.  Entergy established a second formal voluntary program to stabilize power plant carbon dioxide emissions and emissions from controllable power purchases at 20% below 2000 levels through 2010.  In 2011, Entergy extended this commitment through 2020.  Total carbon dioxide emissions representing Entergy’s ownership share of power plants and controllable power purchases in the United States were approximately 46.1 million tons in 2011, 45.5 million tons in 2012, 46.2 million tons in 2013, 42.4 million tons in 2014, 39.5 million tons in 2015, 42.5 million tons in 2016, and 39.9 million tons in 2017.  The decrease





in this number from 2014 to 2015 was largely attributable to the impact on the calculation methodology of the Utility operating companies’ transition into the MISO system.  Participation in this system resulted in fewer power purchases being classified as “controllable” and thus included in the calculation of the emissions total.

Entergy participates in the M.J. Bradley & Associates’ Annual Benchmarking Air Emissions Report, an annual analysis of the 100 largest U.S. electric power producers.  The report is available on the M.J. Bradley website.  Entergy’s annual CO


emissions audit is also third-party verified, and that certification is made available on the American Carbon Registry website.  Entergy participates annually in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and in 2017 was listed on the North American Index.

Clean Water Act

The 1972 amendments to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (known as the Clean Water Act) provide the statutory basis for the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit program and the basic structure for regulating the discharge of pollutants from point sources to waters of the United States.  The Clean Water Act requires virtually all discharges of pollutants to waters of the United States to be permitted.  Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act regulates cooling water intake structures, section 401 of the Clean Water Act requires a water quality certification from the state in support of certain federal actions and approvals, and section 404 regulates the dredge and fill of waters of the United States, including jurisdictional wetlands.

NPDES Permits and Section 401 Water Quality Certifications

NPDES permits are subject to renewal every five years.  Consequently, Entergy is currently in various stages of the data evaluation and discharge permitting process for its power plants.

For thirteen years, Entergy participated in an administrative permitting process with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) for renewal of the Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 discharge permit.  That proceeding recently was settled along with other ongoing proceedings.  For a discussion of the recent Indian Point settlement, see “

Entergy Wholesale Commodities Authorization to Operate Indian Point

” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.

316(b) Cooling Water Intake Structures

The EPA finalized regulations in July 2004 governing the intake of water at large existing power plants employing cooling water intake structures.  The rule sought to reduce perceived impacts on aquatic resources by requiring covered facilities to implement technology or other measures to meet EPA-targeted reductions in water use and corresponding perceived aquatic impacts.  Entergy, other industry members and industry groups, environmental groups, and a coalition of northeastern and mid-Atlantic states challenged various aspects of the rule.  After litigation, the EPA issued a new final 316(b) rule in August 2014.  Entergy is developing a compliance plan for each affected facility in accordance with the requirements of the final rule.

Entergy filed a petition for review of the final rule as a co-petitioner with the Utility Water Act Group.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit heard oral argument in September 2017.  A decision is expected in 2018.

Coastal Zone Management Act

Before a federal licensing agency (such as the NRC) may issue a major license or permit for an activity within the federally designated coastal zone, the agency must be satisfied that the requirements of the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA), as applicable, have been met.  In many cases, CZMA requirements are satisfied by the state’s written concurrence with a “consistency determination” filed by the federal license applicant explaining why the activity proposed to be federally licensed is consistent with the state’s coastal management program. For a discussion of the recent Indian Point settlement, including the CZMA proceedings related to Indian Point license renewal, see “

Entergy





Wholesale Commodities Authorizations to Operate Indian Point

” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.

Federal Jurisdiction of Waters of the United States

In September 2013 the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announced the intention to propose a rule to clarify federal Clean Water Act jurisdiction over waters of the United States.  The announcement was made in conjunction with the EPA’s release of a draft scientific report on the “connectivity” of waters that the agency said would inform the rulemaking.  This report was finalized in January 2015.  The final rule was published in the Federal Register in June 2015.  The rule could significantly increase the number and types of waters included in the EPA’s and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ jurisdiction, which in turn could pose additional permitting and pollutant management burdens on Entergy’s operations.  The final rule has been challenged in various federal courts by several parties, including most states.  In August 2015 the District Court for North Dakota issued a preliminary injunction staying the new rule in 13 states, including Arkansas.  In October 2015 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued a nationwide stay of the rule.  In February 2017 the current administration issued an executive order instructing the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to review the Waters of the United States rule and to revise or rescind, as appropriate.  In June 2017 the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers released a proposed rule that rescinds the June 2015 rule and recodifies the definition of “waters of the U.S.” that was in effect prior to the 2015 rule.  The administration is expected to propose a definition of “waters of the U.S.” at a later date.  In January 2018 the Supreme Court determined that the Sixth Circuit lacked jurisdiction over the petition to review the 2015 rule and that the challenges should be heard in the federal district court.  The matter has been remanded to the Sixth Circuit, which is expected to lift the nationwide stay.  After the Supreme Court decision, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers finalized a rule delaying the applicability date of the 2015 rule to early 2020.  In February 2018 the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas filed suit in Texas federal district court seeking a preliminary injunction of the 2015 rule.  Entergy will continue to monitor this rulemaking and litigation.

Groundwater at Certain Nuclear Sites

The NRC requires nuclear power plants to monitor and report regularly the presence of radioactive material in the environment.  Entergy joined other nuclear utilities and the Nuclear Energy Institute in 2006 to develop a voluntary groundwater monitoring and protection program.  This initiative began after detection of very low levels of radioactive material, primarily tritium, in groundwater at several plants in the United States.  Tritium is a radioactive form of hydrogen that occurs naturally and is also a byproduct of nuclear plant operations.  In addition to tritium, other radionuclides have been found in site groundwater at nuclear plants.

As part of the groundwater monitoring and protection program, Entergy has: (1) performed reviews of plant groundwater characteristics (hydrology) and historical records of past events on site that may have potentially impacted groundwater; (2) implemented fleet procedures on how to handle events that could impact groundwater; and (3) installed groundwater monitoring wells and began periodic sampling.  The program also includes protocols for notifying local officials if contamination is found.  To date, radionuclides such as tritium have been detected at Arkansas Nuclear One, Indian Point, Palisades, Pilgrim, Grand Gulf, Vermont Yankee, and River Bend.  Each of these sites has installed groundwater monitoring wells and implemented a program for testing groundwater at the sites for the presence of tritium and other radionuclides.  Based on current information, the concentrations and locations of radionuclides detected at these plants pose no threat to public health or safety, but each site continues to evaluate the results from its groundwater monitoring program.

In February 2016, Entergy disclosed that elevated tritium levels had been detected in samples from several monitoring wells that are part of Indian Point’s groundwater monitoring program.  Investigation of the source of elevated tritium has determined that the source is related to a temporary system to process water in preparation for the regularly scheduled refueling outage at Indian Point 2.  The system was secured and is no longer in use and additional measures have been taken to prevent reoccurrence should the system be needed again.  In June 2016, Indian Point detected trace amounts of cobalt 58 in a single well.  This was associated with the draining and disassembly of a temporary heat





exchanger operated in support of the Indian Point 2 outage.  Oversight by NRC and other federal/state government bodies continues.  The NRC has issued a green notice of violation related to the adequacy of Entergy’s controls to prevent the introduction of radioactivity into the site groundwater.  Entergy has completed all required corrective actions and expects the NRC to close the notice of violation by March 2018.

Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980

The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), authorizes the EPA to mandate clean-up by, or to collect reimbursement of clean-up costs from, owners or operators of sites at which hazardous substances may be or have been released.  Certain private parties also may use CERCLA to recover response costs.  Parties that transported hazardous substances to these sites or arranged for the disposal of the substances are also deemed liable by CERCLA.  CERCLA has been interpreted to impose strict, joint and several liability on responsible parties.  Many states have adopted programs similar to CERCLA.  Entergy subsidiaries in the Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities businesses have sent waste materials to various disposal sites over the years, and releases have occurred at Entergy facilities.  In addition, environmental laws now regulate certain of Entergy’s operating procedures and maintenance practices that historically were not subject to regulation.  Some disposal sites used by Entergy subsidiaries have been the subject of governmental action under CERCLA or similar state programs, resulting in site clean-up activities.  Entergy subsidiaries have participated to various degrees in accordance with their respective potential liabilities in such site clean-ups and have developed experience with clean-up costs.  The affected Entergy subsidiaries have established provisions for the liabilities for such environmental clean-up and restoration activities.  Details of potentially material CERCLA and similar state program liabilities are discussed in the “

Other Environmental Matters

” section below.

Coal Combustion Residuals

In June 2010 the EPA issued a proposed rule on coal combustion residuals (CCRs) that contained two primary regulatory options: (1) regulating CCRs destined for disposal in landfills or received (including stored) in surface impoundments as so-called “special wastes” under the hazardous waste program of RCRA Subtitle C; or (2) regulating CCRs destined for disposal in landfills or surface impoundments as non-hazardous wastes under Subtitle D of RCRA.  Under both options, CCRs that are beneficially reused in certain processes would remain excluded from hazardous waste regulation.  In April 2015 the EPA published the final CCR rule with the material being regulated under the second scenario presented above - as non-hazardous wastes regulated under RCRA Subtitle D.

The final regulations create new compliance requirements including modified storage, new notification and reporting practices, product disposal considerations, and CCR unit closure criteria.  Entergy believes that on-site disposal options will be available at its facilities, to the extent needed for CCR that cannot be transferred for beneficial reuse.  As of December 31, 2017, Entergy’s has recorded asset retirement obligations related to CCR management of $8.6 million, including $3.9 million at Entergy Arkansas, $1.8 million at Entergy Louisiana, $1.1 million at Entergy Mississippi, and $1.3 million at Entergy Texas.

In December 2016 the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act) was signed into law, which authorizes states to regulate coal ash rather than leaving primary enforcement to citizen suit actions.  States may submit to the EPA proposals for a permit programs.  In September 2017 the EPA agreed to reconsider certain provisions of the CCR rule in light of the WIIN Act.  The EPA has not yet initiated a new round of rulemaking and did not extend the existing mid-October 2017 groundwater monitoring deadline.  Entergy met the existing monitoring deadline, is monitoring state agency actions, and will participate in the regulatory development process.

In late-2017, Entergy determined that certain in-ground wastewater treatment system recycle ponds at its White Bluff and Independence facilities require management under the new EPA regulations.  Entergy is taking action to address the operational and regulatory management of these facilities.  Entergy also has monitored levels of constituents in the groundwater monitoring system surrounding its coal combustion residual landfills at these locations that require reporting and additional monitoring.  Reporting has occurred as required, and monitoring will continue.  Any potential





requirements for corrective action or operational changes under the new EPA rule are currently being assessed.  Moreover, the rule is currently under review at the EPA for potential changes, and the nature and cost of any corrective action requirements may depend, in part, on the outcome of the EPA’s review.

Other Environmental Matters

Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Texas

Entergy Louisiana, as successor in interest to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, currently is involved in the second phase of the remedial investigation of the Lake Charles Service Center site, located in Lake Charles, Louisiana.  A manufactured gas plant (MGP) is believed to have operated at this site from approximately 1916 to 1931.  Coal tar, a by-product of the distillation process employed at MGPs, apparently was routed to a portion of the property for disposal.  The same area also has been used as a landfill.  In 1999, Entergy Gulf States, Inc. signed a second administrative consent order with the EPA to perform a removal action at the site.  In 2002 approximately 7,400 tons of contaminated soil and debris were excavated and disposed of from an area within the service center.  In 2003 a cap was constructed over the remedial area to prevent the migration of contamination to the surface.  In August 2005 an administrative order was issued by the EPA requiring that a 10-year groundwater study be conducted at this site.  The groundwater monitoring study commenced in January 2006 and is continuing.  The EPA released the second Five Year Review in 2015.  The EPA indicated that the current remediation technique was insufficient and that Entergy would need to utilize other remediation technologies on the site.  In July 2015, Entergy submitted a Focused Feasibility Study to the EPA outlining the potential remedies and suggesting installation of a waterloo barrier.  The estimated cost for this remedy is approximately $2 million.  Entergy is awaiting comments and direction from the EPA on the Focused Feasibility Study and potential remedy selection.  In early 2017 the EPA indicated that the new remedial method, a waterloo barrier, may not be necessary and requested revisions to the Focused Feasibility Study.  The EPA plans to provide comments on the revised 2017 Focused Feasibility Study in the next Five Year Review in 2020.  Entergy is continuing discussions with the EPA regarding the ongoing actions at the site.

Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas

The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) notified Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas that the TCEQ believes those entities are potentially responsible parties (PRPs) concerning contamination existing at the San Angelo Electric Service Company (SESCO) facility in San Angelo, Texas.  The facility operated as a transformer repair and scrapping facility from the 1930s until 2003.  Both soil and groundwater contamination exists at the site.  Entergy subsidiaries sent transformers to this facility.  Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and Entergy Texas responded to an information request from the TCEQ and continue to cooperate in this investigation.  Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Texas joined a group of PRPs responding to site conditions in cooperation with the State of Texas, creating cost allocation models based on review of SESCO documents and employee interviews, and investigating contribution actions against other PRPs.  Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Texas have agreed to contribute to the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater at the site in a measure proportionate to those companies’ involvement at the site, while Entergy Arkansas likely will pay a de minimis amount.  Current estimates, although variable depending on ultimate remediation design and performance, indicate that Entergy’s total share of remediation costs likely will be approximately $1.5 million to $2 million.  Remediation activities continue at the site.

Entergy Texas

In December 2016 a transformer inside the Hartburg, Texas Substation had an internal fault resulting in a release of approximately 15,000 gallons of non-PCB mineral oil.  Cleanup ensued immediately; however, rain caused much of the oil to spread across the substation yard and into a nearby wetland.  The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and the National Response Center were immediately notified, and TCEQ responded to the site approximately two hours after the cleanup was initiated.  The remediation liability is estimated at $2.2 million; however, this number could fluctuate depending on the remediation extent and wetland mitigation requirements.  In July 2017,





Entergy entered into the Voluntary Cleanup Program with TCEQ.  Additional direction is expected from TCEQ regarding final remediation requirements for the site.

Entergy

In May 2015 a transformer at the Indian Point facility failed, resulting in a fire and the release of non-PCB oil to the ground surface.  The fire was extinguished by the facility’s fire deluge system.  No injuries occurred due to the transformer failure or company response.  An estimated 3,000 gallons of oil were released into the facility’s discharge canal and the environment surrounding the transformer and discharge canal, including the Hudson River, as a result of the failure, fire, and fire suppression.  Once the fire was extinguished, Indian Point personnel and contractors began recovering free-product from the damaged transformer, the transformer containment moat, and the area surrounding the transformer. The United States Coast Guard designated Entergy as the responsible party under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and assessed a $1,000 civil penalty for the discharge of oil into navigable waters.  As required, Entergy established a claims process including a voluntary hotline. Entergy received no reports to the voluntary hotline or claims under the established claims process.  In September 2016, Indian Point personnel identified an oil sheen in the discharge canal.  Further investigation revealed that an estimated 600 gallons of lubricating oil had leaked from the Indian Point 3 turbine system.  The leaking component has been taken out of service and no oil has been discovered in the Hudson River.  In October 2016 the New York Department of Environmental Conservation issued two notices of violation, one for each of these events, and a proposed order on consent for the 2015 event.  In January 2017, Entergy and the New York Department of Environmental Conservation resolved this matter with an order on consent.  Pursuant to the order, Entergy paid approximately $600 thousand in civil penalties, natural resource damages, and oversight costs.  Additionally, Entergy repaired a section of the discharge canal wall and will conduct daily visual inspections of the discharge canal wall to help identify additional material erosion or material structural deficiencies.  Entergy has completed all compliance obligations under the consent order and the Department of Environmental Conservation closed the matter in December 2017.

Litigation

Entergy uses legal and appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against it, but certain states in which Entergy operates have proven to be unusually litigious environments.  Judges and juries in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas have demonstrated a willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs in personal injury, property damage, and business tort cases.  The litigation environment in these states poses a significant business risk to Entergy.

Ratepayer and Fuel Cost Recovery Lawsuits

(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

Mississippi Attorney General Complaint

See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of this proceeding.

Asbestos Litigation

(Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

See Note 8 to the financial statements for a discussion of this litigation.

Employment and Labor-related Proceedings

(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy)

See Note 8 to the financial statements for a discussion of these proceedings.





Employees

Employees are an integral part of Entergy’s commitment to serving customers.  As of

December 31, 2017

, Entergy subsidiaries employed

13,504

people.

Approximately 4,600 employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Utility Workers Union of America, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the United Government Security Officers of America, and the International Union, Security, Police, Fire Professionals of America.

Availability of SEC filings and other information on Entergy’s website

Entergy electronically files reports with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies, and amendments to such reports.  The public may read and copy any materials that Entergy files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

Entergy uses its website, http://www.entergy.com, as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information.  Filings made with the SEC are posted and available without charge on Entergy’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  These filings include annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format) and current reports on Form 8-K; proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or statements.  All such postings and filings are available on Entergy’s Investor Relations website free of charge.  Entergy is providing the address to its internet site solely for the information of investors and does not intend the address to be an active link.  The contents of the website are not incorporated into this report.



