Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy



ENTERGY’S BUSINESS



Entergy is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail electric distribution operations.  Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 MW of aggregate electric generating capacity, including nearly 10,000 MW of nuclear-fueled capacity.  Entergy’s Utility business delivers electricity to 2.8 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.  Entergy generated annual revenues of $12.5 billion in 2014 and had approximately 13,000 employees as of December 31, 2014.



Entergy operates primarily through two business segments: Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities.



•TheUtilitybusiness segment includes the generation, transmission, distribution, and sale of electric power in portions of Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas, and Louisiana, including the City of New Orleans; and operates a small natural gas distribution business.

•TheEntergy Wholesale Commoditiesbusiness segment includes the ownership, operation, and decommissioning of nuclear power plants located in the northern United States and the sale of the electric power produced by its operating plants to wholesale customers.  In August 2013, Entergy announced plans to close and decommission Vermont Yankee.  On December 29, 2014 the Vermont Yankee plant ceased power production and has entered its decommissioning phase.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also provides services to other nuclear power plant owners and owns interests in non-nuclear power plants that sell the electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers.



See Note 13 to the financial statements for financial information regarding Entergy’s business segments.



Strategy



Entergy’s mission is to operate a world-class energy business that creates sustainable value for its owners, customers, employees, and communities.  Entergy aspires to achieve top quartile total shareholder returns in a socially and environmentally responsible fashion by leveraging the scale and expertise inherent in its core utility and nuclear operations.  Entergy’s current scope includes electricity generation, transmission, and distribution as well as natural gas distribution.  Entergy focuses on operational excellence with an emphasis on safety, reliability, customer service, sustainability, cost efficiency, risk management, and engaged employees.  Entergy also continually seeks opportunities to grow its utility business to benefit all stakeholders and to optimize its portfolio of assets in an ever-dynamic market through periodic buy, build, hold, or disposal decisions.  To accomplish this, Entergy has established strategic imperatives for each business segment.  For the Utility, the strategic imperative is to grow the business by leveraging the industrial expansion underway in the Gulf region of the United States, and for Entergy Wholesale Commodities, the strategic imperative is to manage the risk and preserve value in the business.





Utility



The Utility business segment includes six wholly-owned retail electric utility subsidiaries: Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas.  These companies generate, transmit, distribute and sell electric power to retail and wholesale customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans also provide natural gas utility services to customers in and around Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and New Orleans, Louisiana, respectively.  Also included in the Utility is System Energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy Corporation that owns or leases 90 percent of Grand Gulf.  System Energy sells its power and capacity from Grand Gulf at wholesale to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans.  The six retail utility subsidiaries are each regulated by the FERC and by state utility commissions, or, in the case of Entergy New Orleans, the City Council.  System Energy is regulated by the FERC because all of its transactions are at wholesale.  The overall generation portfolio of the Utility, which relies heavily on natural gas and nuclear generation, is consistent with Entergy’s strong support for the environment.





Customers



As ofDecember 31, 2014, the Utility operating companies provided retail electric and gas service to customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas, as follows:

Electric CustomersGas CustomersArea Served(In Thousands)(%)(In Thousands)(%)Entergy ArkansasPortions of Arkansas70225%Entergy Gulf StatesLouisianaPortions of Louisiana39614%9347%Entergy LouisianaPortions of Louisiana68024%Entergy MississippiPortions of Mississippi44216%Entergy New OrleansCity of New Orleans (a)1716%10553%Entergy TexasPortions of Texas42715%Total customers2,818100%198100%



(a)Excludes the Algiers area of the city, where Entergy Louisiana provides electric service.



Electric Energy Sales



The electric energy sales of the Utility operating companies are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with the peak sales period normally occurring during the third quarter of each year.  On August 22, 2014, Entergy reached a 2014 peak demand of 20,472 MWh, compared to the 2013 peak of 21,581 MWh recorded on August 8, 2013.  Selected electric energy sales data is shown in the table below:



Selected 2014 Electric Energy Sales Data

EntergyArkansasEntergyGulf StatesLouisianaEntergyLouisianaEntergyMississippiEntergyNew OrleansEntergyTexasSystemEnergyEntergy(a)(In GWh)Sales to retailcustomers21,05020,82332,90413,2045,22917,698—110,910Sales for resale:Affiliates2,2996,9664,4502,6571,3224,7639,219—Others8,00392512619316200—9,462Total31,35228,71437,48016,0546,56722,6619,219120,372Average use perresidential customer(kWh)13,77415,86515,35515,31912,87015,560—14,911



(a)Includes the effect of intercompany eliminations.











The following table illustrates the Utility operating companies’ 2014 combined electric sales volume as a percentage of total electric sales volume, and 2014 combined electric revenues as a percentage of total 2014 electric revenue, each by customer class.

Customer Class% of Sales Volume% of RevenueResidential29.937.1Commercial23.926.6Industrial (a)36.327.3Governmental2.02.4Wholesale/Other7.96.6



(a)Major industrial customers are in the chemical, petroleum refining, and pulp and paper industries.



See “Selected Financial Data” for each of the Utility operating companies for the detail of their sales by customer class for 2010-2014.



Selected 2014 Natural Gas Sales Data



Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana provide both electric power and natural gas to retail customers.  Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana sold 11,296,179 and 7,933,968 Mcf, respectively, of natural gas to retail customers in 2014.  In 2014, 97% of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business, and only 3% from the natural gas distribution business.  For Entergy New Orleans, 84% of operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business and 16% from the natural gas distribution business in 2014.



Following is data concerning Entergy New Orleans’s 2014 retail operating revenue sources.

Customer ClassElectric OperatingRevenueNatural GasRevenueResidential42%51%Commercial38%26%Industrial7%8%Governmental/Municipal13%15%



Retail Rate Regulation



General(Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)



Each Utility operating company regularly participates in retail rate proceedings.  The status of material retail rate proceedings is described in Note 2 to the financial statements.  Certain aspects of the Utility operating companies’ retail rate mechanisms are discussed below.



Entergy Arkansas



Fuel and Purchased Power Cost Recovery



Entergy Arkansas’s rate schedules include an energy cost recovery rider to recover fuel and purchased energy costs in monthly bills.  The rider utilizes prior calendar year energy costs and projected energy sales for the twelve-month period commencing on April 1 of each year to develop an energy cost rate, which is redetermined annually and includes a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery, including carrying charges, of the energy cost for the prior calendar year.  The energy cost recovery rider tariff also allows an interim rate request depending









upon the level of over- or under-recovery of fuel and purchased energy costs.  In December 2007 the APSC issued an order stating that Entergy Arkansas’s energy cost recovery rider will remain in effect, and any future termination of the rider would be subject to eighteen months advance notice by the APSC, which would occur following notice and hearing.



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings regarding recovery of Entergy Arkansas’s storm restoration costs.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s electric rates include a fuel adjustment clause designed to recover the cost of fuel and purchased power costs.  The fuel adjustment clause contains a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense and related carrying charges arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings related to audits of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s fuel adjustment clause filings.



To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana hedges approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s gas rates include a purchased gas adjustment clause based on estimated gas costs for the billing month adjusted by a surcharge or credit that arises from an annual reconciliation of fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.



To help stabilize retail gas costs, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility for its gas purchased for resale through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana hedges approximately one-half of the projected natural gas volumes used to serve its natural gas customers for November through March.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s filings to recover storm-related costs.



Entergy Louisiana



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Louisiana’s rate schedules include a fuel adjustment clause designed to recover the cost of fuel and purchased power costs.  The fuel adjustment clause contains a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense and related carrying charges arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings related to audits of Entergy Louisiana’s fuel adjustment clause filings.



To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Louisiana hedges approximately one-









third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Louisiana’s filings to recover storm-related costs.



Entergy Mississippi



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Mississippi’s rate schedules include energy cost recovery riders to recover fuel and purchased energy costs.  The energy cost rate for each calendar year is redetermined annually and includes a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery of the energy costs as of the 12-month period ended September 30.  Entergy Mississippi’s fuel cost recoveries are subject to annual audits conducted pursuant to the authority of the MPSC.



Power Management Rider



In November 2005 the MPSC approved the purchase of the Attala power plant and recovery of the investment cost through Entergy Mississippi’s power management rider.  Entergy Mississippi recovered the annual ownership costs of the Attala plant through the power management rider until resolution of its general rate case.  In 2012 the MPSC approved the purchase of the Hinds power plant recovery of the investment cost through Entergy Mississippi’s power management rider.  Entergy Mississippi recovered the annual ownership costs of the Hinds plant through the power management rider until resolution of its general rate case.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Mississippi’s 2014 general rate case.  Included in the rate changes and revenue adjustments effective with February 2015 bills was the realignment of the annual ownership costs associated with the Attala plant and the Hinds plant from the power management rider to base rates.



To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Mississippi received approval from the MPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Mississippi hedges approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.



Storm Cost Recovery











$15 million as of January 31, 2015, but will return to its current level when the storm damage accrual balance becomes less than $10 million.



The MPSC has also ordered that Entergy Mississippi will annually submit its storm costs for audit.



Entergy New Orleans



Fuel Recovery



Entergy New Orleans’s electric rate schedules include a fuel adjustment tariff designed to reflect no more than targeted fuel and purchased power costs, adjusted by a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel and purchased power costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.



Entergy New Orleans’s gas rate schedules include a purchased gas adjustment to reflect estimated gas costs for the billing month, adjusted by a surcharge or credit similar to that included in the electric fuel adjustment clause, including carrying charges.  In October 2005 the City Council approved modification of the current gas cost collection mechanism effective November 2005 in order to address concerns regarding its fluctuations, particularly during the winter heating season.  The modifications are intended to minimize fluctuations in gas rates during the winter months.



To help stabilize gas costs, Entergy New Orleans seeks approval annually from the City Council to continue implementation of its natural gas hedging program consistent with the City Council’s stated policy objectives.  The program uses financial instruments to hedge exposure to volatility in the wholesale price of natural gas purchased to serve Entergy New Orleans gas customers.  Entergy New Orleans hedges up to 25% of actual gas sales made during the winter months.



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy New Orleans’s efforts to recover storm-related costs.



Entergy Texas



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Texas’s rate schedules include a fixed fuel factor to recover fuel and purchased power costs, including interest, that are not included in base rates.  Semi-annual revisions of the fixed fuel factor are made in March and September based on the market price of natural gas and changes in fuel mix.  The amounts collected under Entergy Texas’s fixed fuel factor and any interim surcharge or refund are subject to fuel reconciliation proceedings before the PUCT.  The PUCT fuel cost proceedings are discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements.



Electric Industry Restructuring



In June 2009, a law was enacted in Texas that required Entergy Texas to cease all activities relating to Entergy Texas’s transition to competition.  The law allows Entergy Texas to remain a part of the SERC Region, although it does not prevent Entergy Texas from joining another power region.  The law provides that proceedings to certify a power region that Entergy Texas belongs to as a qualified power region can be initiated by the PUCT, or on motion by another party, when the conditions supporting such a proceeding exist.  Under the law, the PUCT may not approve a transition to competition plan for Entergy Texas until the expiration of four years from the PUCT’s certification of Entergy Texas’s power region.











The law also contains provisions that allow Entergy Texas to take advantage of a cost recovery mechanism that permits annual filings for the recovery of reasonable and necessary expenditures for transmission infrastructure improvement and changes in wholesale transmission charges.  This mechanism was previously available to other non-ERCOT Texas utility companies, but not to Entergy Texas.



In September 2011 the PUCT adopted a proposed rule implementing a Distribution Cost Recovery Factor to recover capital and capital-related costs related to distribution infrastructure.  The Distribution Cost Recovery Factor permits utilities once per year to implement an increase or decrease in rates above or below amounts reflected in base rates to reflect depreciation expense, federal income tax and other taxes, and return on investment.  The Distribution Cost Recovery Factor rider may be changed a maximum of four times between base rate cases, and expires in January 2017, unless otherwise extended by the Texas Legislature.



The law further amended already existing law that had required Entergy Texas to propose for PUCT approval a tariff to allow eligible customers the ability to contract for competitive generation.  The amending language in the law provides, among other things, that:  1) the tariff shall not be implemented in a manner that harms the sustainability or competitiveness of manufacturers who choose not to participate in the tariff; 2) Entergy Texas shall “purchase competitive generation service, selected by the customer, and provide the generation at retail to the customer”; and 3)  Entergy Texas shall provide and price transmission service and ancillary services under that tariff at a rate that is unbundled from its cost of service.  The law directs that the PUCT may not issue an order on the tariff that is contrary to an applicable decision, rule, or policy statement of a federal regulatory agency having jurisdiction.



Entergy Texas and the other parties to the PUCT proceeding to determine the design of the competitive generation tariff were involved in negotiations throughout 2011 and 2012 with the objective of resolving as many disputed issues as possible regarding the tariff.  The PUCT determined that unrecovered costs that could be recovered through the rider consist only of those costs necessary to implement and administer the competitive generation program and do not include lost revenues or embedded generation costs.  The PUCT also ruled that the amount of customer load that may be included in the competitive generation service program is limited to 115 MW.  After additional negotiations, and ultimately the scheduling of a hearing to resolve remaining contested issues, the PUCT issued the order approving the competitive generation service rider in July 2013.  Entergy Texas filed for rehearing of the PUCT’s July 2013 order, which the PUCT denied.  Entergy Texas has since filed its appeal of that PUCT order to the Travis County District Court, which found in favor of the PUCT in an order issued in October 2014.  In November 2014, Entergy Texas appealed the District Court’s order which moves the appeal to the Third Court of Appeals.  The appeal remains pending.



Franchises



Entergy Arkansas holds exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 308 incorporated cities and towns in Arkansas.  These franchises are unlimited in duration and continue unless the municipalities purchase the utility property.  In Arkansas franchises are considered to be contracts and, therefore, are terminable pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement and applicable statutes.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 59 incorporated municipalities and the unincorporated areas of approximately 22 parishes, and to provide gas service in the City of Baton Rouge and the unincorporated areas of two parishes.  Most of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s franchises have a term of 60 years.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s current electric and gas franchises expire during 2015-2055.



Entergy Louisiana holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 117 incorporated Louisiana municipalities.  Most of these franchises have 25-year terms.  Entergy Louisiana also supplies electric service in approximately 52 Louisiana parishes in which it holds non-exclusive franchises.  Entergy Louisiana’s electric franchises expire during 2015-2039.











Entergy Mississippi has received from the MPSC certificates of public convenience and necessity to provide electric service to areas within 45 counties, including a number of municipalities, in western Mississippi.  Under Mississippi statutory law, such certificates are exclusive.  Entergy Mississippi may continue to serve in such municipalities upon payment of a statutory franchise fee, regardless of whether an original municipal franchise is still in existence.



Entergy New Orleans provides electric and gas service in the City of New Orleans pursuant to indeterminate permits set forth in city ordinances (except electric service in Algiers, which is provided by Entergy Louisiana).  These ordinances contain a continuing option for the City of New Orleans to purchase Entergy New Orleans’s electric and gas utility properties.



Entergy Texas holds a certificate of convenience and necessity from the PUCT to provide electric service to areas within approximately 27 counties in eastern Texas, and holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 68 incorporated municipalities.  Entergy Texas typically obtains 25-year franchise agreements as existing agreements expire.  Entergy Texas’s electric franchises expire during 2016-2058.



The business of System Energy is limited to wholesale power sales.  It has no distribution franchises.



Property and Other Generation Resources



Generating Stations



The total capability of the generating stations owned and leased by the Utility operating companies and System Energy as ofDecember 31, 2014, is indicated below:

Owned and Leased Capability MW(a)CompanyTotalGas/OilNuclearCoalHydroEntergy Arkansas4,7211,6301,8201,19873Entergy Gulf States Louisiana2,9631,630973360—Entergy Louisiana6,3215,1571,164——Entergy Mississippi3,4953,075—420—Entergy New Orleans782782———Entergy Texas2,5532,287—266—System Energy1,268—1,268——Total22,10314,5615,2252,24473



(a)“Owned and Leased Capability” is the dependable load carrying capability as demonstrated under actual operating conditions based on the primary fuel (assuming no curtailments) that each station was designed to utilize.



Summer peak load for the Utility has averaged 23,269 MW over the previous decade.  The Utility operating companies, in aggregate, are projected to have approximately 224 MW more than their minimum capacity requirements needed to meet MISO Resource Adequacy for 2015.



The Utility operating companies’ load and capacity projections are reviewed periodically to assess the need and timing for additional generating capacity and interconnections.  These reviews consider existing and projected demand, and the availability and price of power, the location of new load, the economy, and the age and condition of Entergy’s existing infrastructure.  The resource planning processes also consider the Entergy Arkansas exit from the System Agreement on December 18, 2013, and Entergy Mississippi’s (in November 2015), Entergy Texas’s, Entergy Louisiana’s, and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s notices of their future withdrawal from the System Agreement.











The Utility operating companies’ long-term resource strategy, the “Portfolio Transformation Strategy,” calls for the bulk of capacity needs to be met through long-term resources, whether owned or contracted.  Over the past decade, the Portfolio Transformation Strategy has resulted in the addition of about 6,500 MW of new long-term resources.  As MISO market participants, the Utility operating companies also participate in MISO’s Day Ahead and Real Time Energy and Ancillary Services markets to economically dispatch generation and purchase energy to serve customers reliably and at the lowest reasonable cost.



RFP Procurements



The Utility operating companies from time to time issue requests for proposals (RFP) to procure supply-side resources from sources other than the spot market to meet the unique regional needs of the Utility operating companies.  The RFPs issued by the Utility operating companies have sought resources needed to meet near-term summer reliability requirements as well as longer-term requirements through a broad range of wholesale power products, including limited-term (1 to 3 years) and long-term contractual products and asset acquisitions.  The RFP process resulted, among other things, in:



•Entergy Louisiana’s June 2005 purchase of the 718 MW, gas-fired Perryville plant, of which a total of 75% of the output is sold to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas;

•Entergy Arkansas’s September 2008 purchase of the 789 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Ouachita Generating Facility.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana purchased one-third of the facility from Entergy Arkansas in November 2009;

•Entergy Arkansas’s November 2012 purchase of the 620 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Hot Spring Energy facility;

•Entergy Mississippi’s November 2012 purchase of the 450 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Hinds Energy facility; and

•Entergy Louisiana’s construction of the 560 MW, combined-cycle, gas turbine Ninemile 6 generating facility at its existing Ninemile Point electric generating station.  The facility reached commercial operation in December 2014. For additional discussion of the Ninemile 6 project see “Capital Expenditure Plans and Other Uses of Capital”in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.



The RFP process has also resulted in the selection, or confirmation of the economic merits of, long-term purchased power agreements (PPAs), including, among others:



•River Bend 30% life-of-unit PPAs totaling approximately 300 MW between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana (200 MW), and between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans (100 MW) related to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s unregulated portion of the River Bend nuclear station, which portion was formerly owned by Cajun;

•Entergy Arkansas wholesale base load capacity life-of-unit PPAs executed in 2003 totaling approximately 220 MW between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Louisiana (110 MW) and between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy New Orleans (110 MW) related to the sale of a portion of Entergy Arkansas’s coal and nuclear base load resources (which had not been included in Entergy Arkansas’s retail rates);

•12-month agreements originally executed in 2005 and which are renewed annually between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas, and between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi, relating to the sale of a portion of Entergy Arkansas’s coal and nuclear base load resources (which had not been included in Entergy Arkansas’s retail rates);

•In December 2009, Entergy Texas and Exelon Generation Company, LLC executed a 10-year agreement for 150-300 MW from the Frontier Generating Station located in Grimes County, Texas;

•In May 2011, Entergy Texas and Calpine Energy Services, L.P. executed a 10-year agreement for 485 MW from the Carville Energy Center located in St. Gabriel, Louisiana.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana purchases 50% of the facility's capacity and energy from Entergy Texas;









•In October 2012, Entergy Arkansas and Union Power Partners, L.P. executed a 3 ½-year agreement for 495 MW from the Union Power Station located in El Dorado, Arkansas.  Cost recovery for this agreement was approved within Entergy Arkansas’s general rate case filed in March 2013; and

•Entergy Mississippi’s cost-based purchase, beginning in January 2013, of 90 MW from Entergy Arkansas’s share of Grand Gulf (only 60 MW of this PPA came through the RFP process).  Cost recovery for the 90 MW was approved by the MPSC in January 2013.



In December 2010 on behalf of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Services issued the 2010 RFP for Long-Term Renewable Energy Resources seeking up to 233 MW of renewable generation resources to meet the requirements of an LPSC general order issued on December 9, 2010.  In September 2012, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana executed a 20-year contract for 28 MW, with the potential to purchase an additional 9 megawatts when available, from Rain CII Carbon LLC’s pet coke calcining facility in Sulphur, Louisiana.  The facility began commercial operation in May 2013.  In March  2013, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana executed a 20-year contract for 8.5 MW from Agrilectric Power Partners, LP’s refurbished rice hull-fueled electric generation facility located in Lake Charles, Louisiana.  In September 2013, Entergy Louisiana executed a 10-year contract with TX LFG Energy, LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Montauk Energy Holdings, LLC, to purchase approximately 3 MW from its landfill gas-fueled power generation facility located in Cleveland, Texas.  LPSC certification of these three contracts has been received.



In May 2014, Entergy Arkansas issued the 2014 Entergy Arkansas RFP for Long-Term, Supply-Side and Renewable Generation Resources. This RFP is seeking between 200 to 600 MW of capacity, capacity-related benefits, energy, other electric products, and environmental attributes from traditional resources (CT, CCTG or solid fuel) for deliveries beginning in 2017 and approximately 200 MW of the same products from renewable resources (wind, solar, biomass and hydro) for deliveries starting as early as 2015.



In September 2014, on behalf of one or more of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Services issued the 2014 Amite South RFP for Long-Term Supply Side Developmental Resources to be constructed in the Amite South planning region. This RFP is seeking between 650 and 1000 MW of capacity, energy, and related products and environmental attributes from a new, single integrated generation resource located in Amite South, preferably in close proximity to the Downstream of Gypsy region.  This RFP includes a self-build option at Entergy Louisiana’s Little Gypsy site.



Other Procurements From Third Parties



The Utility operating companies have also made resource acquisitions outside of the RFP process, including Entergy Mississippi’s January 2006 acquisition of the 480 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Attala power plant; Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s March 2008 acquisition of the 322 MW, simple-cycle, gas-fired Calcasieu Generating Facility; and Entergy Louisiana’s April 2011 acquisition of the 580 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Acadia Energy Center Unit 2.  The Utility operating companies have also entered into various limited- and long-term contracts in recent years as a result of bilateral negotiations.



In December 2014, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, and Entergy Texas entered into an asset purchase agreement to acquire the Union Power Station, a 1,980 MW (summer rating) power generation facility located near El Dorado, Arkansas, from Union Power Partners, L.P.  The Union Power Station consists of four natural gas-fired, combined-cycle gas turbine power blocks, each rated at 495 MW (summer rating).  Pursuant to the agreement, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana will acquire two of the power blocks and a 50% undivided ownership interest in certain assets related to the facility, and Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Texas will each acquire one power block and a 25% undivided ownership interest in the related assets.  If Entergy Arkansas or Entergy Texas do not obtain approval for the purchase of their power blocks, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana will seek to purchase the power blocks not approved. The base purchase price is expected to be approximately $948 million (approximately $237 million for each power block) subject to adjustments.  In addition, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana anticipates selling 20% of the capacity and energy associated with its two power blocks to Entergy New Orleans through a cost-based, life-of-unit power purchase









agreement.  The purchase is contingent upon, among other things, obtaining necessary approvals, including cost recovery, from various federal and state regulatory and permitting agencies.  These include regulatory approvals from the APSC, LPSC, PUCT, and FERC, as well as clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino anti-trust law.  In December 2014, Entergy Texas filed its application with the PUCT for approval of the acquisition.  The PUCT has indicated that it will convene the hearing on the merits of this case in June 2015.  Entergy Texas intends to file a rate application to seek cost recovery later in 2015.  In January 2015, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana filed its application with the LPSC and Entergy Arkansas filed its application with the  APSC, each for approval of the acquisition and cost recovery.  Closing is targeted to occur in late-2015.



Interconnections



The Utility operating companies’ generating units are interconnected by a transmission system operating at various voltages up to 500 kV.  These generating units consist primarily of steam-electric production facilities and are provided dispatch  instructions by MISO.  Entergy’s Utility operating companies are MISO market participants and are interconnected with many neighboring utilities.  MISO is an essential link in the safe, cost-effective delivery of electric power across all or parts of 15 U.S. states and the Canadian province of Manitoba.  As a Regional Transmission Organization, MISO assures consumers of unbiased regional grid management and open access to the transmission facilities under MISO’s functional supervision.  In addition, the Utility operating companies are members of the SERC Reliability Corporation (SERC).  SERC is a nonprofit corporation responsible for promoting and improving the reliability, adequacy, and critical infrastructure of the bulk power supply systems in all or portions of 16 central and southeastern states.SERC serves as a regional entity with delegated authority from the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) for the purpose of proposing and enforcing reliability standards within the SERC Region.



Gas Property



As ofDecember 31, 2014, Entergy New Orleans distributed and transported natural gas for distribution within Algiers and New Orleans, Louisiana, through approximately 2,500 miles of gas pipeline.  As of December 31, 2014, the gas properties of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, which are located in and around Baton Rouge, Louisiana, were not material to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s financial position.



Title



The Utility operating companies’ generating stations are generally located on properties owned in fee simple.  Most of the substations and transmission and distribution lines are constructed on private property or public rights-of-way pursuant to easements, servitudes, or appropriate franchises.  Some substation properties are owned in fee simple.  The Utility operating companies generally have the right of eminent domain, whereby they may perfect title to, or secure easements or servitudes on, private property for their utility operations.



Substantially all of the physical properties and assets owned by Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy are subject to the liens of mortgages securing bonds issued by those companies.  The Lewis Creek generating station is owned by GSG&T, Inc., a subsidiary of Entergy Texas, and is not subject to its mortgage lien.  Lewis Creek is leased to and operated by Entergy Texas.











Fuel Supply



The sources of generation and average fuel cost per kWh for the Utility operating companies and System Energy for the years 2012-2014 were:

Natural GasNuclearCoalPurchasedPowerYear%ofGenCentsPerkWh%ofGenCentsPerkWh%ofGenCentsPerkWh%ofGenCentsPerkWh2014284.36330.89112.63285.142013264.12390.92102.70254.322012273.15330.85112.60293.58



Actual 2014 and projected 2015 sources of generation for the Utility operating companies and System Energy, including certain power purchases from affiliates under life of unit power purchase agreements, including the Unit Power  Sales Agreement, are:

Natural GasNuclearCoalPurchasedPower20142015201420152014201520142015Entergy Arkansas (a)12%13%53%58%24%23%11%5%Entergy Gulf States Louisiana43%30%15%15%9%12%33%43%Entergy Louisiana26%25%36%35%1%1%37%39%Entergy Mississippi37%32%22%25%16%16%25%27%Entergy New Orleans30%31%45%43%3%3%22%23%Entergy Texas19%14%13%13%8%10%60%63%System Energy (b)——100%100%————Utility (a)28%23%33%33%11%11%28%33%



(a)Hydroelectric power provided less than 1% of Entergy Arkansas’s generation in 2014 and is expected to provide less than 1% of its generation in 2015.

(b)Capacity and energy from System Energy’s interest in Grand Gulf is allocated as follows under the Unit Power Sales Agreement: Entergy Arkansas - 36%; Entergy Louisiana - 14%; Entergy Mississippi - 33%; and Entergy New Orleans - 17%.  Pursuant to purchased power agreements, Entergy Arkansas is selling a portion of its owned capacity and energy from Grand Gulf to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans.



Some of the Utility’s gas-fired plants are capable of also using fuel oil, if necessary.  In addition, two small peaking units burn only oil.  Any oil use is included in the total for gas.



Natural Gas



The Utility operating companies have long-term firm and short-term interruptible gas contracts for both supply and transportation.  Long-term firm contracts for power plants comprise less than 25% of the Utility operating companies’ total requirements.  Short-term contracts and spot-market purchases satisfy additional gas requirements.  Entergy Texas owns a gas storage facility that provides reliable and flexible natural gas service to certain generating stations.



Many factors, including wellhead deliverability, storage, pipeline capacity, and demand requirements of end users, influence the availability and price of natural gas supplies for power plants.  Demand is tied to weather conditions as well as to the prices and availability of other energy sources.  Pursuant to federal and state regulations, gas supplies









to power plants may be interrupted during periods of shortage.  To the extent natural gas supplies are disrupted or natural gas prices significantly increase, the Utility operating companies will use alternate fuels, such as oil, or rely to a larger extent on coal, nuclear generation, and purchased power.



Coal



Entergy Arkansas has committed to eight one- to three-year contracts that will supply approximately 87% of the total coal supply needs in 2015.  These contracts are staggered in term so that not all contracts have to be renewed the same year.  The remaining 13% of total coal requirements will be satisfied by contracts with a term of less than one year.  Based on continued improved Powder River Basin (PRB) coal deliveries by rail and the high cost of alternate sources and modes of transportation, no alternative coal consumption is expected at Entergy Arkansas during 2015.  Entergy Arkansas is currently negotiating a new rail agreement that will provide all of Entergy Arkansas’s coal transportation requirements through 2015.  The current agreement is set to expire June 30, 2015.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana has committed to four one- to three-year contracts that will supply approximately 79% of Nelson Unit 6 coal needs in 2015.  Additional PRB coal will be purchased through contracts with a term of less than one year to provide the remaining supply needs.  For the same reasons as for Entergy Arkansas’s plants, no alternative coal consumption is expected at Nelson Unit 6 during 2015.  Coal will be transported to Nelson via an existing transportation agreement that is expected to provide all of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s rail transportation requirements for 2015.



For the year 2014, coal transportation delivery to Entergy Arkansas- and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana-operated coal-fired units met coal demand at the plants and it is expected that delivery times experienced in 2014 will continue to improve through 2015.  Both Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana control a sufficient number of railcars to satisfy the rail transportation requirement.



The operator of Big Cajun 2 - Unit 3, Louisiana Generating, LLC, has advised Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas that it has adequate rail car and barge capacity to meet the volumes of PRB coal requested for 2015.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s and Entergy Texas’s coal nomination requests to Big Cajun 2 - Unit 3 are made on an annual basis.



Nuclear Fuel



The nuclear fuel cycle consists of the following:



•mining and milling of uranium ore to produce a concentrate;

•conversion of the concentrate to uranium hexafluoride gas;

•enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride gas;

•fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies for use in fueling nuclear reactors; and

•disposal of spent fuel.



The Registrant Subsidiaries that own nuclear plants (Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy) are responsible through a shared regulated uranium pool for contracts to acquire nuclear material to be used in fueling Entergy’s Utility nuclear units.  These companies own the materials and services in this shared regulated uranium pool on a pro rata fractional basis determined by the nuclear generation capability of each company.  Any liabilities for obligations of the pooled contracts are on a several but not joint basis.  The shared regulated uranium pool maintains inventories of nuclear materials during the various stages of processing.  The Registrant Subsidiaries purchase enriched uranium hexafluoride for their nuclear plant reload requirements at the average inventory cost from the shared regulated uranium pool.  Entergy Operations Inc. contracts separately for the fabrication of nuclear fuel as agent on behalf of each of the Registrant Subsidiaries that owns a nuclear plant.  All contracts for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel are between the DOE and the owner of a nuclear power plant.











Based upon currently planned fuel cycles, the nuclear units in both the Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities segments have a diversified portfolio of contracts and inventory that provides substantially adequate nuclear fuel materials and conversion and enrichment services at what Entergy believes are reasonably predictable or fixed prices through most of 2015.  Entergy’s ability to purchase nuclear fuel at reasonably predictable prices, however, depends upon the performance reliability of uranium miners.  There are a number of possible supply alternatives that may be accessed to mitigate any supplier performance failure, including potentially drawing upon Entergy’s inventory intended for later generation periods depending upon its risk management strategy at that time, although the pricing of any alternate uranium supply from the market will be dependent upon the market for uranium supply at that time.  In addition, some nuclear fuel contracts are on a non-fixed price basis subject to prevailing prices at the time of delivery.



The effects of market price changes may be reduced and deferred by risk management strategies, such as negotiation of floor and ceiling amounts for long-term contracts, buying for inventory or entering into forward physical contracts at fixed prices when Entergy believes it is appropriate and useful.  Entergy buys uranium from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of countries, and from time to time purchases from nearly all qualified reliable major market participants worldwide that sell into the U.S.



Entergy’s ability to assure nuclear fuel supply also depends upon the performance reliability of conversion, enrichment, and fabrication services providers.  There are fewer of these providers than for uranium.  For conversion  and enrichment services, like uranium, Entergy diversifies its supply by supplier and country and may take special measures as needed to ensure supply of enriched uranium for the reliable fabrication of nuclear fuel.  For fabrication services, each plant is dependent upon the effective performance of the fabricator of that plant’s nuclear fuel, therefore, Entergy provides additional monitoring, inspection, and oversight for the fabrication process to assure reliability and quality.



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy each have made arrangements to lease nuclear fuel and related equipment and services.  The lessors, which are consolidated in the financial statements of Entergy and the applicable Registrant Subsidiary, finance the acquisition and ownership of nuclear fuel through credit agreements and the issuance of notes.  These credit facilities are subject to periodic renewal, and the notes are issued periodically, typically for terms between three and ten years.



Natural Gas Purchased for Resale



Entergy New Orleans has several suppliers of natural gas.  Its system is interconnected with three interstate and three intrastate pipelines.  Entergy New Orleans has a “no-notice” service gas purchase contract with Atmos Energy which guarantees Entergy New Orleans gas delivery at specific delivery points and at any volume within the minimum and maximum set forth in the contract amounts.  The Atmos Energy gas supply is transported to Entergy New Orleans pursuant to a transportation service agreement with Gulf South Pipeline Co.  This service is subject to FERC-approved rates.  Entergy New Orleans also makes interruptible spot market purchases.  In recent years, natural gas deliveries to Entergy New Orleans have been subject primarily to weather-related curtailments.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana purchases natural gas for resale under a firm contract from Enbridge Marketing (U.S.) Inc.  The gas is delivered through a combination of intrastate and interstate pipelines.



As a result of the implementation of FERC-mandated interstate pipeline restructuring in 1993, curtailments of interstate gas supply could occur if Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s or Entergy New Orleans’s suppliers failed to perform their obligations to deliver gas under their supply agreements.  Gulf South Pipeline Co. could curtail transportation capacity only in the event of pipeline system constraints.



Federal Regulation of the Utility



State or local regulatory authorities, as described above, regulate the retail rates of the Utility operating companies.  The FERC regulates wholesale rates (including intrasystem sales pursuant to the System Agreement) and









interstate transmission of electricity, as well as rates for System Energy’s sales of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.



System Agreement(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)





See “System Agreement” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for additional discussion of the System Agreement, including other Utility operating companies’ notices to terminate participation in the future.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for discussion of legal proceedings at the FERC involving the System Agreement.



Transmission



See “Entergy’s Integration into the MISO Regional Transmission Organization” in the “Rate, Cost-recovery, and Other Regulation- Federal Regulation” section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.



System Energy and Related Agreements



System Energy recovers costs related to its interest in Grand Gulf through rates charged to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans for capacity and energy under the Unit Power Sales Agreement (described below).  In December 1995, System Energy commenced a rate proceeding at the FERC.  In July 2001 the rate proceeding became final, with the FERC approving a prospective 10.94% return on equity.  The FERC’s decision also affected other aspects of System Energy’s charges to the Utility operating companies that it supplies with power.  In 1998 the FERC approved requests by Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi to accelerate a portion of their Grand Gulf purchased power obligations.  Entergy Arkansas’s and Entergy Mississippi’s acceleration of Grand Gulf purchased power obligations ceased effective July 2001 and July 2003, respectively, as approved by the FERC.



Unit Power Sales Agreement



The Unit Power Sales Agreement allocates capacity, energy, and the related costs from System Energy’s ownership and leasehold interests in Grand Gulf to Entergy Arkansas (36%), Entergy Louisiana (14%), Entergy Mississippi (33%), and Entergy New Orleans (17%).  Each of these companies is obligated to make payments to System Energy for its entitlement of capacity and energy on a full cost-of-service basis regardless of the quantity of energy









delivered.  Payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are System Energy’s only source of operating revenue.  The financial condition of System Energy depends upon the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf and the receipt of such payments.  Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans generally recover payments made under the Unit Power Sales Agreement through rates charged to their customers.





Availability Agreement



The Availability Agreement among System Energy and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans was entered into in 1974 in connection with the financing by System Energy of Grand Gulf.  The Availability Agreement provides that System Energy make available to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans all capacity and energy available from System Energy’s share of Grand Gulf.



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans also agreed severally to pay System Energy monthly for the right to receive capacity and energy from Grand Gulf in amounts that (when added to any amounts received by System Energy under the Unit Power Sales Agreement) would at least equal System Energy’s total operating expenses for Grand Gulf (including depreciation at a specified rate and expenses incurred in a permanent shutdown of Grand Gulf) and interest charges. The September 1989 write-off of System Energy’s investment in Grand Gulf 2, amounting to approximately $900 million, is being amortized for Availability Agreement purposes over 27 years.



The allocation percentages under the Availability Agreement are fixed as follows: Entergy Arkansas - 17.1%; Entergy Louisiana - 26.9%; Entergy Mississippi - 31.3%; and Entergy New Orleans - 24.7%.  The allocation percentages under the Availability Agreement would remain in effect and would govern payments made under such agreement in the event of a shortfall of funds available to System Energy from other sources, including payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement.



System Energy has assigned its rights to payments and advances from Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans under the Availability Agreement as security for its first mortgage bonds and reimbursement obligations to certain banks providing letters of credit in connection with the equity funding of the sale and leaseback transactions described in Note 10 to the financial statements under “Sale and Leaseback Transactions- Grand Gulf Lease Obligations.”  In these assignments, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans further agreed that, in the event they were prohibited by governmental action from making









payments under the Availability Agreement (for example, if the FERC reduced or disallowed such payments as constituting excessive rates), they would then make subordinated advances to System Energy in the same amounts and at the same times as the prohibited payments. System Energy would not be allowed to repay these subordinated advances so long as it remained in default under the related indebtedness or in other similar circumstances.



Each of the assignment agreements relating to the Availability Agreement provides that Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans will make payments directly to System Energy. However, if there is an event of default, those payments must be made directly to the holders of indebtedness that are the beneficiaries of such assignment agreements.  The payments must be made pro rata according to the amount of the respective obligations secured.



The obligations of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans to make payments under the Availability Agreement are subject to the receipt and continued effectiveness of all necessary regulatory approvals.  Sales of capacity and energy under the Availability Agreement would require that the Availability Agreement be submitted to the FERC for approval with respect to the terms of such sale.  No such filing with the FERC has been made because sales of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf are being made pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.  If, for any reason, sales of capacity and energy are made in the future pursuant to the Availability Agreement, the jurisdictional portions of the Availability Agreement would be submitted to the FERC for approval.



Since commercial operation of Grand Gulf began, payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement to System Energy have exceeded the amounts payable under the Availability Agreement and, therefore, no payments under the Availability Agreement have ever been required.  If Entergy Arkansas or Entergy Mississippi fails to make its Unit Power Sales Agreement payments, and System Energy is unable to obtain funds from other sources, Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans could become subject to claims or demands by System Energy or its creditors for payments or advances under the Availability Agreement (or the assignments thereof) equal to the difference between their required Unit Power Sales Agreement payments and their required Availability Agreement payments because their Availability Agreement obligations exceed their Unit Power Sales Agreement obligations.



The Availability Agreement may be terminated, amended, or modified by mutual agreement of the parties thereto, without further consent of any assignees or other creditors.



Capital Funds Agreement



System Energy and Entergy Corporation have entered into the Capital Funds Agreement, whereby Entergy Corporation has agreed to supply System Energy with sufficient capital to (i) maintain System Energy’s equity capital at an amount equal to a minimum of 35% of its total capitalization (excluding short-term debt) and (ii) permit the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf and pay in full all indebtedness for borrowed money of System Energy when due.



Entergy Corporation has entered into various supplements to the Capital Funds Agreement.  System Energy has assigned its rights under such supplements as security for its first mortgage bonds and for reimbursement obligations to certain banks providing letters of credit in connection with the equity funding of the sale and leaseback transactions described in Note 10 to the financial statements under “Sale and Leaseback Transactions- Grand Gulf Lease Obligations.”  Each such supplement provides that permitted indebtedness for borrowed money incurred by System Energy in connection with the financing of Grand Gulf may be secured by System Energy’s rights under the Capital Funds Agreement on a pro rata basis (except for the Specific Payments, as defined below). In addition, in the supplements to the Capital Funds Agreement relating to the specific indebtedness being secured, Entergy Corporation has agreed to make cash capital contributions directly to System Energy sufficient to enable System Energy to make payments when due on such indebtedness (Specific Payments).  However, if there is an event of default, Entergy Corporation must make those payments directly to the holders of indebtedness benefiting from the supplemental agreements.  The payments (other than the Specific Payments) must be made pro rata according to the amount of the respective obligations benefiting from the supplemental agreements.









The Capital Funds Agreement may be terminated, amended, or modified by mutual agreement of the parties thereto, upon obtaining the consent, if required, of those holders of System Energy’s indebtedness then outstanding who have received the assignments of the Capital Funds Agreement.



Service Companies



Entergy Services, a corporation wholly-owned by Entergy Corporation, provides management, administrative, accounting, legal, engineering, and other services primarily to the Utility operating companies, but also provides services to Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  Entergy Operations is also wholly-owned by Entergy Corporation and provides nuclear management, operations and maintenance services under contract for ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, subject to the owner oversight of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, respectively.  Entergy Services and Entergy Operations provide their services to the Utility operating companies and System Energy on an “at cost” basis, pursuant to cost allocation methodologies for these service agreements that were approved by the FERC.



Jurisdictional Separation of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas



Effective December 31, 2007, Entergy Gulf States, Inc. completed a jurisdictional separation into two vertically integrated utility companies, one operating under the sole retail jurisdiction of the PUCT, Entergy Texas, and the other operating under the sole retail jurisdiction of the LPSC, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  Entergy Texas now owns all Entergy Gulf States, Inc. distribution and transmission assets located in Texas, the gas-fired generating plants located in Texas, undivided 42.5% ownership shares of Entergy Gulf States, Inc.’s 70% ownership interest in Nelson 6 and 42% ownership interest in Big Cajun 2, Unit 3, which are coal-fired generating plants located in Louisiana, and other assets and contract rights to the extent related to utility operations in Texas.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana now owns all of the remaining assets that were owned by Entergy Gulf States, Inc.  On a book value basis, approximately 58.1% of the Entergy Gulf States, Inc. assets were allocated to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and approximately 41.9% were allocated to Entergy Texas.



Entergy Texas purchases from Entergy Gulf States Louisiana pursuant to a life-of-unit purchased power agreement a 42.5% share of capacity and energy from the 70% of River Bend subject to retail regulation.  Entergy Texas was allocated a share of River Bend’s nuclear and environmental liabilities that is identical to the share of the plant’s output purchased by Entergy Texas under the purchased power agreement.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana purchases a 57.5% share of capacity and energy from the gas-fired generating plants owned by Entergy Texas, and Entergy Texas purchases a 42.5% share of capacity and energy from the gas-fired generating plants owned by Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  The purchased power agreements associated with the gas-fired generating plants will terminate when the unit(s) is/are removed from Entergy System dispatch.  The dispatch and operation of the generating plants did not change as a result of the jurisdictional separation.  The LPSC staff has asserted that the purchased power agreements would terminate if Entergy Texas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana join MISO.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana filed testimony opposing that position.  The LPSC stayed consideration of this issue until December 31, 2013.  No further action has been taken regarding this matter.  See additional discussion of the purchased power agreements in the “

Federal Regulation

-

Entergy’s Integration Into the MISO Regional Transmission Organization

” section in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.



Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana Business Combination



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of the planned Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana business combination.











Earnings Ratios of Registrant Subsidiaries



The Registrant Subsidiaries’ ratios of earnings to fixed charges and ratios of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred dividends or distributions pursuant to Item 503 of SEC Regulation S-K are as follows:

Ratios of Earnings to Fixed ChargesYears Ended December 31,20142013201220112010Entergy Arkansas3.083.623.794.313.91Entergy Gulf States Louisiana3.843.633.484.363.58Entergy Louisiana3.233.132.081.863.41Entergy Mississippi3.233.192.793.553.35Entergy New Orleans3.961.933.025.374.43Entergy Texas2.391.941.762.342.10System Energy4.045.665.123.853.64



Ratios of Earnings to Combined FixedCharges and Preferred Dividends or DistributionsYears Ended December 31,20142013201220112010Entergy Arkansas2.763.253.363.833.60Entergy Gulf States Louisiana3.783.573.434.303.54Entergy Louisiana3.032.921.931.703.19Entergy Mississippi3.002.972.593.273.16Entergy New Orleans3.561.742.674.744.08



The Registrant Subsidiaries accrue interest expense related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense and do not include it in fixed charges.





Entergy Wholesale Commodities



Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership, operation, and decommissioning of nuclear power plants, located in the northern United States and the sale of the electric power produced by its operating plants to wholesale customers.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities revenues are primarily derived from sales of energy and generation capacity from these plants.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also provides operations and management services, including decommissioning services, to nuclear power plants owned by other utilities in the United States.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also includes the ownership of, or participation in joint ventures that own, non-nuclear power plants and the sale to wholesale customers of the electric power produced by these plants.



On December 29, 2014, Entergy Wholesale Commodities Vermont Yankee plant was removed from the grid, after 42 years of operations.  The decision to close and decommission Vermont Yankee was announced in August 2013, as a result of numerous issues including sustained low natural gas and wholesale energy prices, the high cost structure of the plant, and lack of a market structure that adequately compensates merchant nuclear plants for their environmental and fuel diversity benefits in the Northeast region.











Property



Nuclear Generating Stations



Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership of the following nuclear power plants:

Power PlantMarketInServiceYearAcquiredLocationCapacity-Reactor TypeLicenseExpirationDatePilgrimIS0-NE1972July 1999Plymouth, MA688 MW - Boiling Water2032FitzPatrickNYISO1975Nov. 2000Oswego, NY838 MW - Boiling Water2034Indian Point 3NYISO1976Nov. 2000Buchanan, NY1,041 MW - Pressurized Water2015Indian Point 2NYISO1974Sept. 2001Buchanan, NY1,028 MW - Pressurized Water2013 (b)Vermont Yankee (a)IS0-NE1972July 2002Vernon, VT605 MW - Boiling Water2032PalisadesMISO1971Apr. 2007Covert, MI811 MW - Pressurized Water2031



(a)On December 29, 2014, the Vermont Yankee plant ceased power production.

(b)The original expiration date of the NRC operating license for Indian Point 2 was September 28, 2013. Indian Point 2 has now entered its “period of extended operation” after expiration of the plant’s initial license term under “timely renewal,” which is a federal statutory rule of general applicability providing for extension of a license for which a renewal application has been timely filed with the licensing agency. The Indian Point license renewal application qualifies for timely renewal protection because it met NRC regulatory standards for timely filing.



Entergy Wholesale Commodities also includes the ownership of two non-operating nuclear facilities, Big Rock Point in Michigan and Indian Point 1 in New York that were acquired when Entergy purchased the Palisades and Indian Point 2 nuclear plants, respectively.  These facilities are in various stages of the decommissioning process.



In April 2007, Entergy submitted to the NRC a joint application to renew the operating licenses for Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 for an additional 20 years.  The original expiration date of the NRC operating license for Indian Point 2 was in September 2013 and the original expiration date of the NRC operating license for Indian Point 3 is in December 2015.  Authorization to operate Indian Point 2 rests, and for Indian Point 3 will likely rest, on Entergy’s having timely filed a license renewal application that remains pending before the NRC.  Indian Point 2 has now entered its “period of extended operation” after expiration of the plant’s initial license term under “timely renewal,” which is a federal statutory rule of general applicability providing for extension of a license for which a renewal application has been timely filed with the licensing agency.  Indian Point 3 is expected to reach the same milestone, and to become subject to the same statutorily prescribed extension of its license expiration date, in December 2015.  The license renewal application for Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 qualifies for timely renewal protection because it met NRC regulatory standards for timely filing.  For additional discussion of the license renewal applications, see “Entergy Wholesale Commodities Authorizations to Operate Its Nuclear Plants” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.











Non-nuclear Generating Stations



Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership, or interests in joint ventures that own, the following non-nuclear power plants:

PlantLocationOwnershipNet OwnedCapacity(a)TypeRhode Island State Energy Center; 583 MWJohnston, RI100%583 MWGasIndependence Unit 2;   842 MWNewark, AR14%121 MW(b)CoalTop of Iowa;   80 MW (c)Worth County, IA50%40 MWWindWhite Deer;   80 MW (c)Amarillo, TX50%40 MWWindRS Cogen;   425 MW (c)Lake Charles, LA50%213 MWGas/SteamNelson 6;   550 MWWestlake, LA11%60 MW(b)Coal



(a)“Net Owned Capacity” refers to the nameplate rating on the generating unit.

(b)The owned MW capacity is the portion of the plant capacity owned by Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  For a complete listing of Entergy’s jointly-owned generating stations, refer to “Jointly-Owned Generating Stations” in Note 1 to the financial statements.

(c)Indirectly owned through interests in unconsolidated joint ventures.



Independent System Operators



The Pilgrim and Vermont Yankee and Rhode Island plants fall under the authority of the Independent System Operator (ISO) New England and the FitzPatrick and Indian Point plants fall under the authority of the New York Independent System Operator (NYISO).  The Palisades plant falls under the authority of the MISO.  The primary purpose of ISO New England, NYISO, and MISO is to direct the operations of the major generation and transmission facilities in their respective regions; ensure grid reliability; administer and monitor wholesale electricity markets; and plan for their respective region’s energy needs.



Energy and Capacity Sales



As a wholesale generator, Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ core business is selling energy, measured in MWh, to its customers.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities enters into forward contracts with its customers and sells energy in the day ahead or spot markets.  In addition to selling the energy produced by its plants, Entergy Wholesale Commodities sells unforced capacity, which allows load-serving entities to meet specified reserve and related requirements placed on them by the ISOs in their respective areas.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ forward fixed price power contracts consist of contracts to sell energy only, contracts to sell capacity only, and bundled contracts in which it sells both capacity and energy.  While the terminology and payment mechanics vary in these contracts, each of these types of contracts requires Entergy Wholesale Commodities to deliver MWh of energy, make capacity available, or both.  See “Market and Credit Risk Sensitive Instruments” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for additional information regarding these contracts.



As part of the purchase of the Palisades plant in 2007, Entergy executed a 15-year PPA with the seller, Consumers Energy, for 100% of the plant’s output, excluding any future uprates.  Under the purchased power agreement, Consumers Energy will receive the value of any new environmental credits for the first ten years of the agreement.  Palisades and Consumers Energy will share on a 50/50 basis the value of any new environmental credits for years 11 through 15 of the agreement.  The environmental credits are defined as benefits from a change in law that causes capability of the plant as of the purchase date to become a tradable attribute (e.g., emission credit, renewable energy credit, environmental credit, “green” credit, etc.) or otherwise to have a market value.











Customers



Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ customers for the sale of both energy and capacity from its nuclear plants include retail power providers, utilities, electric power co-operatives, power trading organizations and other power generation companies.  These customers include Consolidated Edison and Consumers Energy, companies from which Entergy purchased plants, and ISO New England, NYISO, and MISO.  Substantially all of the counterparties or their guarantors for the planned energy output under contract for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants have public investment grade credit ratings.



Competition





Seasonality



Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ revenues and operating income are subject to fluctuations during the year due to seasonal factors, weather conditions, and contract pricing.  Refueling outages are generally scheduled for the spring and the fall, and cause volumetric decreases during those seasons.  When outdoor and cooling water temperatures are lower, generally during colder months, Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants operate more efficiently, and consequently, generate more electricity.  Many of Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ contracts provide for shaped pricing over the course of the year.  As a result of these factors, Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ revenues are typically higher in the first and third quarters than in the second and fourth quarters.



Fuel Supply



Nuclear Fuel



See “Fuel Supply-Nuclear Fuel” in the Utility portion of Part I, Item 1 for a discussion of the nuclear fuel cycle and markets.  Entergy Nuclear Fuels Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary, is responsible for contracts to acquire nuclear materials, except for fuel fabrication, for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants, while Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc. acts as the agent for the purchase of nuclear fuel assembly fabrication services.  All contracts for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel are between the DOE and each of the nuclear power plants.



Other Business Activities



Entergy Nuclear Power Marketing, LLC (ENPM) was formed in 2005 to centralize the power marketing function for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants.  Upon its formation, ENPM entered into long-term power purchase agreements with the Entergy Wholesale Commodities subsidiaries that own nuclear power plants (generating









subsidiaries).  As part of a series of agreements, ENPM agreed to assume and/or otherwise service the existing power purchase agreements that were in effect between the generating subsidiaries and their customers.  ENPM functions include origination of new energy and capacity transactions and generation scheduling.



Entergy Nuclear, Inc. pursues service agreements with other nuclear power plant owners who seek the advantages of Entergy’s scale and expertise but do not necessarily want to sell their assets.  Services provided by either Entergy Nuclear, Inc. or other Entergy Wholesale Commodities subsidiaries include engineering, operations and maintenance, fuel procurement, management and supervision, technical support and training, administrative support, and other managerial or technical services required to operate, maintain, and decommission nuclear electric power facilities.  Entergy Nuclear, Inc. provided decommissioning services for the Maine Yankee nuclear power plant and continues to pursue opportunities for Entergy Wholesale Commodities with other nuclear plant owners through operating agreements.



Entergy Nuclear, Inc. also offers operating license renewal and life extension services to nuclear power plant owners.  TLG Services, a subsidiary of Entergy Nuclear Inc., offers decommissioning, engineering, and related services to nuclear power plant owners.  In April 2009, Entergy announced that it will team with energy firm ENERCON to offer nuclear development services ranging from plant relicensing to full-service, new plant deployment.  ENERCON has experience in engineering, environmental, technical and management services.



In September 2003, Entergy agreed to provide plant operation support services for the 800 MW Cooper Nuclear Station located near Brownville, Nebraska.  The original contract was to expire in 2014 corresponding to the original operating license life of the plant.  In 2006 an Entergy subsidiary signed an agreement to provide license renewal services for the Cooper Nuclear Station.  The Cooper Nuclear Station received its license renewal from the NRC in November 2010.  Entergy continues to provide implementation services for the renewed license.  In 2010 an Entergy subsidiary signed an agreement to extend the management support services to Cooper Nuclear Station by 15 years, through January 2029.





Regulation of Entergy’s Business



Federal Power Act



The Federal Power Act provides the FERC the authority to regulate:



•the transmission and wholesale sale of electric energy in interstate commerce;

•sale or acquisition of certain assets;

•securities issuances;

•the licensing of certain hydroelectric projects;

•certain other activities, including accounting policies and practices of electric and gas utilities; and

•changes in control of FERC jurisdictional entities or rate schedules.



The Federal Power Act gives the FERC jurisdiction over the rates charged by System Energy for Grand Gulf capacity and energy provided to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans and over some of the rates charged by Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  The FERC also regulates the provisions of the System Agreement, including the rates, and the provision of transmission service to wholesale market participants.  The FERC also regulates the MISO RTO, an independent entity that maintains functional control over the combined transmission systems of its members and administers wholesale energy, capacity, and ancillary services markets for market participants in the MISO region, including the Utility operating companies.  FERC regulation of the MISO RTO includes regulation of the design and implementation of the wholesale markets administered by the MISO RTO, as well as the rates, terms, and conditions of open access transmission service over the member systems and the allocation of costs associated with transmission upgrades.











Entergy Arkansas holds a FERC license that expires in 2053 for two hydroelectric projects totaling 70 MW of capacity.



State Regulation



Utility



Entergy Arkansas is subject to regulation by the APSC, which includes the authority to:



•oversee utility service;

•set retail rates;

•determine reasonable and adequate service;

•control leasing;

•control the acquisition or sale of any public utility plant or property constituting an operating unit or system;

•set rates of depreciation;

•issue certificates of convenience and necessity and certificates of environmental compatibility and public need; and

•regulate the issuance and sale of certain securities.



Additionally, Entergy Arkansas serves a limited number of retail customers in Tennessee and as a result, may be required to submit certain matters approved by the APSC for consideration by the Tennessee Regulatory Authority.  Additionally, Entergy Arkansas maintains limited facilities in Missouri but does not provide retail electric service to customers in Missouri.  Although Entergy Arkansas obtained a certificate with respect to its Missouri facilities, Entergy Arkansas is not subject to the retail rate or regulatory scheme in Missouri.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s electric and gas business and Entergy Louisiana are subject to regulation by the LPSC as to:



•utility service;

•retail rates and charges;

•certification of generating facilities;

•certification of power or capacity purchase contracts;

•audit of the fuel adjustment charge, environmental adjustment charge, and avoided cost payment to Qualifying Facilities;

•integrated resource planning;

•utility mergers and acquisitions and other changes of control; and

•depreciation and other matters.



Entergy Louisiana is also subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council with respect to such matters within Algiers in Orleans Parish, although the precise scope of that jurisdiction differs from that of the LPSC.



Entergy Mississippi is subject to regulation by the MPSC as to the following:



•utility service;

•service areas;

•facilities;

•certification of generating facilities and certain transmission projects;

•retail rates;

•fuel cost recovery;

•depreciation rates; and

•mergers and changes of control.











Entergy Mississippi is also subject to regulation by the APSC as to the certificate of environmental compatibility and public need for the Independence Station, which is located in Arkansas.



Entergy New Orleans is subject to regulation by the City Council as to the following:



•utility service;

•retail rates and charges;

•standards of service;

•depreciation;

•issuance and sale of certain securities; and

•other matters.



To the extent authorized by governing legislation, Entergy Texas is subject to the original jurisdiction of the municipal authorities of a number of incorporated cities in Texas with appellate jurisdiction over such matters residing in the PUCT.  Entergy Texas is also subject to regulation by the PUCT as to:



•retail rates and service in unincorporated areas of its service territory, and in municipalities that have ceded jurisdiction to the PUCT;

•customer service standards;

•certification of certain transmission and generation projects; and

•extensions of service into new areas.



Regulation of the Nuclear Power Industry



Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and Energy Reorganization Act of 1974



Under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, the operation of nuclear plants is heavily regulated by the NRC, which has broad power to impose licensing and safety-related requirements.  The NRC has broad authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, as owners of all or portions of ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, respectively, and Entergy Operations, as the licensee and operator of these units, are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC.  Entergy subsidiaries in the Entergy Wholesale Commodities segment are subject to the NRC’s jurisdiction as the owners and operator of Pilgrim, Indian Point Energy Center, FitzPatrick, Vermont Yankee, and Palisades.  Substantial capital expenditures at Entergy’s nuclear plants because of revised safety requirements of the NRC could be required in the future.



Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982



Spent Nuclear Fuel



Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the DOE is required, for a specified fee, to construct storage facilities for, and to dispose of, all spent nuclear fuel and other high-level radioactive waste generated by domestic nuclear power reactors.  Entergy’s nuclear owner/licensee subsidiaries have been charged fees for the estimated future disposal costs of spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982.  The affected Entergy companies entered into contracts with the DOE, whereby the DOE is to furnish disposal services at a cost of one mill per net kWh generated and sold after April 7, 1983, plus a one-time fee for generation prior to that date.  Entergy Arkansas is the only one of the Utility operating companies that generated electric power with nuclear fuel prior to that date and has a recorded liability as of December 31, 2014 of $181.3 million for the one-time fee.  Entergy accepted assignment of the Pilgrim, FitzPatrick and Indian Point 3, Indian Point 1 and 2, Vermont Yankee, Palisades, and Big Rock Point spent fuel disposal contracts with the DOE held by their previous owners.  The previous owners have paid or retained liability for the fees for all generation prior to the purchase dates of those plants.  The fees payable to the









DOE may be adjusted in the future to assure full recovery.  Entergy considers all costs incurred for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel, except accrued interest, to be proper components of nuclear fuel expense.  Provisions to recover such costs have been or will be made in applications to regulatory authorities for the Utility plants.  Entergy’s total spent fuel fees to date, including the one-time fee liability of Entergy Arkansas, have surpassed $1.6 billion (exclusive of amounts relating to Entergy plants that were paid or are owed by prior owners of those plants).





Following the current Presidential administration’s defunding of the Yucca Mountain spent fuel repository program, the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners and others sued the government seeking cessation of collection of the one mill per net kWh generated and sold after April 7, 1983 fee.  In November 2013 the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ordered the DOE to submit a proposal to Congress to reset the fee to zero until the DOE complies with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act or Congress enacts an alternative waste disposal plan.  In January 2014 the DOE submitted the proposal to Congress under protest, and also filed a petition for rehearing with the D.C. Circuit.  The petition for rehearing was denied.  The zero spent fuel fee went into effect prospectively in May 2014.  Management cannot predict the potential timing or magnitude of future spent fuel fee revisions that may occur.



As a result of the DOE’s failure to begin disposal of spent nuclear fuel in 1998 pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 and the spent fuel disposal contracts, Entergy’s nuclear owner/licensee subsidiaries have incurred and will continue to incur damages.  In November 2003 these subsidiaries, except for the owner of Palisades, began litigation to recover the damages caused by the DOE’s delay in performance.  Through 2014, Entergy’s subsidiaries have won and collected on judgments in excess of $200 million , including approximately $48 million collected by Entergy Arkansas in 2013, against the U.S. for damages caused by the DOE’s breach of the contract.  First round or second round damages cases are in progress covering each of the nuclear plants owned by Entergy subsidiaries.  In 2014 trials were held in three additional cases (second round ANO case, second round Grand Gulf case, and first round Waterford 3 case) but judgments have not yet been issued in any of those cases.  A second round case was filed for the Vermont Yankee plant in April 2014 and a second round case was filed for the Pilgrim plant in December 2014.  Management cannot predict the timing or amount of any potential recoveries on other claims filed by Entergy subsidiaries, and cannot predict the timing of any eventual receipt from the DOE of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims damage awards.



Pending DOE acceptance and disposal of spent nuclear fuel, the owners of nuclear plants are providing their own spent fuel storage.  Storage capability additions using dry casks began operations at Palisades in 1993, at ANO in 1996, at FitzPatrick in 2002, at River Bend in 2005, at Grand Gulf in 2006, at Indian Point and Vermont Yankee in 2008, at Waterford 3 in 2011, and at Pilgrim in 2015.  These facilities will be expanded as needed.











Nuclear Plant Decommissioning



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Texas, and System Energy are entitled to recover from customers through electric rates the estimated decommissioning costs for ANO, the portion of River Bend subject to retail rate regulation, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, respectively.  The collections are deposited in trust funds that can only be used for future decommissioning costs.  Entergy periodically reviews and updates the estimated decommissioning costs to reflect inflation and changes in regulatory requirements and technology, and then makes applications to the regulatory authorities to reflect, in rates, the changes in projected decommissioning costs.



Following a review in 2009, Entergy concluded that there was a funding shortfall for Vermont Yankee of approximately $40 million, which it satisfied with a $40 million guarantee from Entergy Corporation that is still in place subject to a 120-day notice of cancellation sent to the NRC in December 2014.  In July 2010 the LPSC approved increased decommissioning collections for Waterford 3 and the Louisiana regulated share of River Bend and in December 2010 the PUCT approved increased decommissioning collections for the Texas share of River Bend to address previously identified funding shortfalls.  Entergy currently believes its decommissioning funding will be sufficient for its nuclear plants subject to retail rate regulation, although decommissioning cost inflation and trust fund performance will ultimately determine the adequacy of the funding amounts.  See Note 1 to the financial statements for further discussion of Vermont Yankee decommissioning costs.



For the Indian Point 3 and FitzPatrick plants purchased in 2000, NYPA retained the decommissioning trusts and the decommissioning liabilities.  NYPA and Entergy subsidiaries executed decommissioning agreements, which specify their decommissioning obligations.  NYPA has the right to require the Entergy subsidiaries to assume each of the decommissioning liabilities provided that it assigns the corresponding decommissioning trust, up to a specified level, to the Entergy subsidiaries.  If the decommissioning liabilities are retained by NYPA, the responsible Entergy subsidiary will perform the decommissioning of the plants at a price equal to the lesser of a pre-specified level or the amount in the decommissioning trusts.



In March 2014, Entergy Nuclear Operations made filings with the NRC reporting on decommissioning funding for certain of Entergy’s nuclear plants. Those reports all showed that decommissioning funding for those nuclear plants met the NRC’s financial assurance requirements.



Additional information with respect to Entergy’s decommissioning costs and decommissioning trust funds is found in Note 9 and Note 17 to the financial statements.



Price-Anderson Act



The Price-Anderson Act requires that reactor licensees purchase and maintain the maximum amount of nuclear liability insurance available and participate in an industry assessment program called Secondary Financial Protection  in order to protect the public in the event of a nuclear power plant accident.  The costs of this insurance are borne by the nuclear power industry.  Congress amended and renewed the Price-Anderson Act in 2005 for a term through 2025.  The Price-Anderson Act limits the contingent liability for a single nuclear incident to a maximum assessment of approximately $127.318 million per reactor (with 104 nuclear industry reactors currently participating).  In the case of a nuclear event in which Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, System Energy, or an Entergy Wholesale Commodities company is liable, protection is afforded through a combination of private insurance and the Secondary Financial Protection program.  In addition to this, insurance for property damage, costs of replacement power, and other risks relating to nuclear generating units is also purchased.  The Price-Anderson Act and insurance applicable to the nuclear programs of Entergy are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to the financial statements.











Environmental Regulation



Entergy’s facilities and operations are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities having jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes, and other environmental matters.  Management believes that Entergy’s businesses are in substantial compliance with environmental regulations currently applicable to its facilities and operations.  Because environmental regulations are subject to change, future compliance requirements and costs cannot be precisely estimated.  Except to the extent discussed below, at this time compliance with federal, state, and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise protecting the environment, is incorporated into the routine cost structure of Entergy’s businesses and is not expected to have a material effect on their competitive position, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position.



Clean Air Act and Subsequent Amendments



The Clean Air Act and its amendments establish several programs that currently or in the future may affect Entergy’s fossil-fueled generation facilities and, to a lesser extent, certain operations at nuclear and other  facilities.  Individual states also operate similar independent state programs or delegated federal programs that may include requirements more stringent than federal regulatory requirements.  These programs include:



•New source review and preconstruction permits for new sources of criteria air pollutants, new and existing sources of greenhouse gases, and significant modifications to existing facilities;

•Acid rain program for control of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx);

•Nonattainment area programs for control of criteria air pollutants, which could include fee assessments for air pollutant emission sources under Section 185 of the Clean Air Act if attainment is not reached in a timely manner;

•Hazardous air pollutant emissions reduction programs;

•Interstate Air Transport;

•Operating permits program for administration and enforcement of these and other Clean Air Act programs;

•Regional Haze and Best Available Retrofit Technology programs; and

•New and existing source standards for greenhouse gas emissions.



New Source Review (NSR)



Preconstruction permits are required for new facilities and for existing facilities that undergo a modification that results in a significant net emissions increase and is not classified as routine repair, maintenance, or replacement.  Units that undergo certain non-routine modifications must obtain a permit modification and may be required to install additional air pollution control technologies. Entergy has an established process for identifying modifications requiring additional permitting approval and has followed the regulations and associated guidance provided by the states and the federal government with regard to the determination of routine repair, maintenance, and replacement.  In recent years, however, the EPA has begun an enforcement initiative, aimed primarily at coal plants, to identify modifications that it does not consider routine for which the unit did not obtain a modified permit.  Various courts and the EPA have been inconsistent in their judgments regarding modifications that are considered routine.



In February 2011, Entergy received a request from the EPA for several categories of information concerning capital and maintenance projects at the White Bluff and Independence facilities, both located in Arkansas, in order to determine compliance with the Clean Air Act.  In August 2011, Entergy’s Nelson facility, located in Louisiana, received a similar request for information from the EPA.  Entergy responded to both requests.  Neither EPA request for information alleged that the facilities are in violation of law.











Acid Rain Program



The Clean Air Act provides SO2allowances to most of the affected Entergy generating units for emissions based upon past emission levels and operating characteristics.  Each allowance is an entitlement to emit one ton of SO2per year.  Plant owners are required to possess allowances for SO2emissions from affected generating units.  Virtually all Entergy fossil-fueled generating units are subject to SO2allowance requirements.  Entergy could be required to purchase additional allowances when it generates power using fuel oil.  Fuel oil usage is determined by economic dispatch and influenced by the price and availability of natural gas, incremental emission allowance costs, and the availability and cost of purchased power.



Ozone Nonattainment



Entergy Texas operates one fossil-fueled generating unit (Lewis Creek) in a geographic area that is not in attainment of the currently-enforced national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) for ozone.  The nonattainment area that affects Entergy Texas is the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area.  Areas in nonattainment are classified as “marginal,” “moderate,” “serious,” or “severe.”  When an area fails to meet the ambient air standard, the EPA requires state regulatory authorities to prepare state implementation plans meant to cause progress toward bringing the area into attainment with applicable standards.



The Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area was originally classified as “moderate” nonattainment under the 8-hour ozone standard with an attainment date of June 15, 2010.  In June 2007 the Texas governor petitioned the EPA to reclassify Houston-Galveston-Brazoria from “moderate” to “severe” and the EPA granted the request in October 2008.  The area’s new attainment date for the 8-hour ozone standard is as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than June 15, 2019.



In March 2008, the EPA revised the NAAQS for ozone, creating the potential for additional counties and parishes in which Entergy operates to be placed in nonattainment status.  In April 2012 the EPA released its final non-attainment designations for the 2008 ozone NAAQS.  In Entergy’s utility service area, the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria, Texas; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Memphis, Tennessee/Mississippi/Arkansas areas were designated as in “marginal” nonattainment.



For these marginal areas attainment must be demonstrated no later than July 20, 2015 (with EPA evaluating whether the area attained the standard based on monitored ozone data from 2013-2015).  In the final designation rule, EPA states that it anticipates the marginal areas will be able to attain by that date based upon reductions attendant with other rules and programs such as the interstate transport rules.  Entergy facilities in these areas may be subject to installation of NOx controls, but the degree of control will remain unknown until the states are further along in implementation in the marginal areas.   Entergy will continue to monitor and engage in the state’s implementation process in Entergy states.



In December 2014 the EPA published a proposed rule to lower the primary and secondary NAAQS for ozone to a level within a range of 65 to 75 parts per billion (ppb).  The agency also is asking for comment on the potential for leaving the standard at its current level of 75 ppb, or lowering the standard to 60 ppb.  Entergy is analyzing the proposal and is engaged with industry groups, regulators, and lawmakers.  If the standard is lowered, this may result in additional counties/parishes in which Entergy operates being designated as nonattainment and potentially requiring further emission reductions.  Comments are due in March 2015, and a final rule is anticipated in late-2015 according to the EPA’s regulatory agenda.



Potential SO2Nonattainment



The EPA issued a final rule in June 2010 adopting an SO21-hour national ambient air quality standard of 75 parts per billion.  The EPA designations for counties in attainment and nonattainment were originally due in June 2012, but the EPA has indicated that it will delay designations except for those areas with existing monitoring data from 2009









to 2011 indicating violations of the new standard. In July 2013 EPA issued final designations for these areas.  In Entergy’s utility service territory, only St. Bernard Parish in Louisiana is designated as non-attainment for the SO21-hour national ambient air quality standard of 75 parts per billion.  Entergy does not have a generation asset in that parish.  In all other areas, analysis is required once EPA issues additional final regulations and guidance.  Additional capital projects or operational changes may be required for Entergy facilities in these areas.



Hazardous Air Pollutants



The EPA released the final Mercury and Air Toxics Standard (MATS) rule in December 2011 and the rule became effective in April 2012.  Entergy currently is on schedule to have the required controls in place for compliance at Entergy’s coal-fired units.  Compliance with MATS is required by the Clean Air Act within three years, or by 2015, although certain extensions of this deadline are available from state permit authorities and the EPA.  Entergy has applied for and received a one-year extension, as allowed by the Clean Air Act, for its affected facilities in Arkansas and Louisiana.



Cross-State Air Pollution



In March 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which was intended to reduce SO2and NOxemissions from electric generation plants in order to improve air quality in twenty-nine eastern states.  The rule required a combination of capital investment to install pollution control equipment and increased operating costs through the purchase of emission allowances.  Entergy began implementation in 2007, including installation of controls at several facilities and the development of an emission allowance procurement strategy.



Based on several court challenges, the CAIR was vacated and remanded to the EPA by the D.C. Circuit in 2008.  The court allowed the CAIR to become effective in January 2009, while the EPA revised the rule.  In July 2011 the EPA released its final Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR, which previously was referred to as the Transport Rule).  The rule was directed at limiting the interstate transport of emissions of NOxand SO2as precursors to ozone and fine particulate matter.  The final rule provided a significantly lower number of allowances to Entergy’s Utility states than did the draft rule.  Entergy’s capital investment and annual allowance purchase costs under the CSAPR would depend on the economic assessment of NOxand SO2allowance markets, the cost of control technologies, generation unit utilization, and the availability and cost of purchased power.





Regional Haze



In June 2005, the EPA issued its final Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR) regulations that could potentially result in a requirement to install SO2and NOxpollution control technology as Best Available Retrofit Control Technology









(BART) on certain of Entergy’s coal and oil generation units.  The rule leaves certain CAVR determinations to the states.  The Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ) prepared a State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Arkansas facilities to implement its obligations under the CAVR.  The ADEQ determined that Entergy Arkansas’s White Bluff power plant affects a Class I Area’s visibility and will be subject to the EPA’s presumptive BART limits, which likely would require the installation of scrubbers and low NO

x

burners.  Under then-current state regulations, the scrubbers would have had to be operational by October 2013.  Entergy Arkansas filed a petition in December 2009 with the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission requesting a variance from this deadline because the EPA had expressed concerns about Arkansas’s Regional Haze SIP and questioned the appropriateness of issuing an air permit prior to that approval.  Entergy Arkansas’s petition requested that, consistent with federal law, the compliance deadline be changed to as expeditiously as practicable, but in no event later than five years after EPA approval of the Arkansas Regional Haze SIP.  The Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission approved the variance in March 2010.  In October 2011 the EPA released a proposed rule addressing the Arkansas Regional Haze SIP.  In the proposal the EPA disapproved a large portion of the Arkansas Regional Haze SIP, including the emission limits for NO

x

and SO


at White Bluff.  The final rule was published, mostly unchanged, in March 2012 and became final in April 2012.  This triggered a two-year timeframe in which the EPA was required to either approve a revised SIP issued by Arkansas or issue a Federal Implementation Plan (FIP).  This two-year time frame expired in April 2014.  In December 2014 a draft consent decree between the Sierra Club and the EPA was filed with the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas.  This consent decree states that the EPA is to issue a draft FIP addressing Regional Haze requirements in Arkansas by no later than March 6, 2015 and a final FIP for these same requirements by no later than December 15, 2015.  The consent decree has not been finalized.  These decisions could impact the timing and level of control installation at Entergy's units in Arkansas.



Fine Particle (PM2.5) National Ambient Air Quality Standard



In December 2012 the EPA released regulations that lowered the NAAQS for fine particle pollution or PM2.5.  In December 2014 the EPA issued final area designations for this standard.  All areas in Entergy’s service territory were designated as “Unclassifiable/Attainment” for this standard.  Entergy will continue to monitor and engage in the state’s implementation process in Entergy states.



Potential Legislative, Regulatory, and Judicial Developments



In addition to the specific instances described above, there are a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives concerning air emissions, as well as other media, that are under consideration at the federal, state, and local level.  Because of the nature of Entergy’s business, the imposition of any of these initiatives could affect Entergy’s operations.  Entergy continues to monitor these initiatives and activities in order to analyze their potential operational and cost implications.  These initiatives include:



•designation by the EPA and state environmental agencies of areas that are not in attainment with national ambient air quality standards;

•introduction of bills in Congress and development of regulations by the EPA proposing further limits on NOx, SO2, mercury, and carbon dioxide and other air emissions.  New legislation or regulations applicable to stationary sources could take the form of market-based cap-and-trade programs, direct requirements for the installation of air emission controls onto air emission sources, or other or combined regulatory programs;

•efforts in Congress or at the EPA to establish a mandatory federal carbon dioxide emission control structure or unit performance standards;

•revisions to the estimates of the Social Cost of Carbon used for regulatory impact analysis of Federal laws and regulations;

•implementation of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative by several states in the northeastern United States and similar actions in other regions of the United States;

•efforts on the state and federal level to codify renewable portfolio standards, a clean energy standard, or a similar mechanism requiring utilities to produce or purchase a certain percentage of their power from defined renewable energy sources or energy sources with lower emissions;









•efforts to develop more stringent state water quality standards, effluent limitations for Entergy’s industry sector, stormwater runoff control regulations, and cooling water intake structure requirements;

•efforts to restrict the previously-approved continued use of oil-filled equipment containing certain levels of PCBs; and

•efforts by certain external groups to encourage reporting and disclosure of carbon dioxide emissions and risk.  Entergy has prepared responses for the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) annual questionnaire for the past several years and has given permission for those responses to be posted to CDP’s website.





Greenhouse Gas Reporting



In September 2009, the EPA finalized a rule to require reporting of several greenhouse gases.  This rule requires Entergy to report annually greenhouse gas emissions from operating power plants, various combustion sources, certain transmission and distribution equipment, and natural gas distribution operations.



New and Existing Source Performance Standards for Greenhouse Gas Emissions



As a part of a climate plan announced in June 2013, President Obama directed the EPA to (i) reissue proposed carbon pollution standards for new power plants by September 20, 2013, with finalization of the rules to occur in a timely manner; (ii) issue proposed carbon pollution standards, regulations, or guidelines, as appropriate, for modified, reconstructed, and existing power plants no later than June 1, 2014; (iii) finalize those rules by no later than June 1, 2015; and (iv) include in the guidelines addressing existing power plants a requirement that states submit to the EPA the implementation plans required under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act and its implementing regulations by no later than June 30, 2016.  In September 2013 the EPA issued the proposed New Source Performance Standards rule for new sources.  The rule was published in the Federal Register in January 2014.  In June 2014 the EPA issued proposed standards for existing power plants.  Entergy is actively engaged in the rulemaking process, having submitted comments to the EPA in December 2014.  Cost and methods of compliance remain unknown at this time.



Nelson Unit 6 (Entergy Gulf States Louisiana)



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana has self-reported to the LDEQ an annual carbon monoxide (CO) emission limit deviation at the Nelson Unit 6 coal-fired facility for the years 2006-2010 and the failure to report these deviations in semi-annual reporting and in annual Title V compliance certifications.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana is not required









to monitor carbon monoxide emissions from Nelson Unit 6 using a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS).  Stack tests performed in 2010 appear to indicate CO emissions in excess of the maximum hourly limit for three - 1 hour test runs; however, comparison of the 2010 stack tests with the most recent previous tests, from 2006, appear to indicate that the permit limits were calculated incorrectly in the Title V Permit application and should have been higher using the 2006 stack test as the basis.   The 2010 test emission levels did not cause a violation of NAAQS.  Additionally, the 2010 stack testing, which was performed in compliance with an EPA data request connected to the agency’s development of a new air emissions rule, was not taken during a period of normal and representative operations for Nelson 6.   Settlement negotiations continue with the LDEQ.



Clean Water Act



The 1972 amendments to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (known as the Clean Water Act) provide the statutory basis for the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit program and the basic structure for regulating the discharge of pollutants from point sources to waters of the United States.  The Clean Water Act requires virtually all discharges of pollutants to waters of the United States to be permitted.  Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act regulates cooling water intake structures, section 401 of the Clean Water Act requires a water quality certification from the state in support of certain federal actions and approvals, and section 404 regulates the dredge and fill of waters of the United States, including jurisdictional wetlands.



NPDES Permits and Section 401 Water Quality Certifications



NPDES permits are subject to renewal every five years.  Consequently, Entergy is currently in various stages of the data evaluation and discharge permitting process for its power plants.  Additionally, the State of New York has taken the position that a new state-issued water quality certification is required as part of the NRC license renewal process.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ Indian Point nuclear facility in New York is seeking a new Section 401 certification prior to license renewal under full reservation of rights.



Indian Point



Entergy is involved in an administrative permitting process with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) for renewal of the Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 discharge permit.  In November 2003 the NYSDEC issued a draft permit indicating that closed cycle cooling would be considered the “best technology available” for minimizing alleged adverse environmental effects attributable to the intake of cooling water at Indian Point, subject to a feasibility determination and alternatives analysis for that technology, if Entergy applied for and received NRC license renewal for Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3.  Upon becoming effective, the draft permit also would have required payment of approximately $24 million annually, and an annual 42 unit-day outage period, until closed cycle cooling is implemented.  Entergy is participating in the administrative process to request that the draft permit be modified prior to final issuance, and opposes any requirement to install cooling towers at Indian Point.



An August 2008 ruling by the NYSDEC’s Assistant Commissioner restructured the permitting and administrative process, including the application of a new economic test designed to implement the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals standard in that court’s review of the EPA’s cooling water intake structure rules, which is discussed in the 316(b) Cooling Water Intake Structures section below.  The NYSDEC has directed Entergy to develop detailed feasibility information regarding the construction and operation of cooling towers, and alternatives to closed cycle cooling, prior to the issuance of a new draft permit by the NYSDEC staff and commencement of the adjudicatory proceeding.  The reports include a visual impact and aesthetics report filed in June 2009, a plume and emissions report filed in September 2009, a technical feasibility report and alternatives analysis filed in February 2010, and an economic report to establish whether the technology, if feasible, satisfies the economic test that is part of the New York standard.  Entergy requested that the NYSDEC Assistant Commissioner reconsider the New York standard in light of the U.S. Supreme Court decision reversing the Second Circuit’s alternative economic test adopted in the August 2008 ruling.  In November 2012 the NYSDEC Assistant Commissioner’s delegate issued a decision overturning the alternative economic test adopted in the August 2008 ruling and reestablishing the “wholly disproportionate” test









derived from previous New York precedent. The wholly disproportionate test considers whether the costs of a technology are wholly disproportionate to the environmental benefits gained from the technology.



In February 2010, Entergy provided to the NYSDEC an updated estimate of the capital cost to retrofit Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 with cooling towers.  Construction costs for retrofitting with cooling towers are estimated to be at least $1.19 billion, in addition to lost generation of approximately 14.5 terawatt-hours (TWh) during the forced outage of both units that is estimated to take at least 42 weeks.  Entergy also proposed an alternative to the cooling towers, the use of cylindrical wedgewire screens, the construction costs of which are now expected to be approximately $250 million to $300 million.  Because a cooling tower retrofitting of this size and complexity has never been undertaken at an operating nuclear facility, significant uncertainties exist in the capital cost estimates and, therefore, the actual capital costs could be materially higher than estimated.  Moreover, construction outage-related costs to Entergy have not been calculated because of the significant variability in power pricing at any given time, but they are expected to be significant and may exceed the capital costs.  The capital cost estimate for the wedgewire screen construction is also subject to uncertainty.  Hearings on certain issues began in 2011 in consolidation with certain issues in the water quality certification matter.



Hearings were held in July 2013 before NYSDEC ALJs on environmental issues related to Indian Point’s wedgewire screen proposal for “best technology available.”  In 2014, hearings were held on NYSDEC’s proposed best technology available, closed cycle cooling.  NYSDEC also has proposed annual fish protection outages of 42, 62, or 92 days at both units or at one unit with closed cycle cooling at the other.  The ALJs held a further legislative hearing and issues conference on this NYSDEC staff proposal in July 2014.  In January 2015, Entergy wrote NYSDEC leadership requesting an explanation of the delay in release of the ruling following an ALJ's on-record statement that the ALJ's draft ruling was under "executive review."  In February 2015 the ALJs issued a ruling scheduling hearings on the outage proposals and other pending issues in September and October 2015, with post-hearing briefing to follow in December 2015.  For additional discussion of this and other proceedings related to Indian Point, see “Entergy Wholesale Commodities Authorizations to Operate Its Nuclear Plants” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.

Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station



In October 2012, EcoLaw, a coalition of several environmental groups, served Entergy Nuclear Generating Company and Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc. with a notice of intent (NOI) to sue under the Clean Water Act for alleged violations at the Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station.  The NOI alleges 33,253 discharge permit violations since 1994 (including alleged violations prior to Entergy’s ownership; Entergy purchased the plant in 1999) and seeks $25,000 per violation for a total of $831,325,000.  The Clean Water Act states that an alleged violator must be given 60 days notice prior to a citizen’s suit being filed.  Review of the NOI indicates that many of the alleged violations were discharges in compliance with the current EPA facility discharge permit, which the putative plaintiff alleges was improperly issued or modified.  An additional NOI was served by EcoLaw to the same Entergy parties and the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection alleging violations of state water quality standards and requesting revocation of the state-issued Section 401 Water Quality Certification associated with the plant’s water discharge permit.  In November and December 2012, Entergy filed responses to the state and federal notices of intent to sue.  To date, Pilgrim has not received notice that EcoLaw has initiated any lawsuits against Pilgrim.



316(b) Cooling Water Intake Structures



The EPA finalized regulations in July 2004 governing the intake of water at large existing power plants employing cooling water intake structures.  The rule sought to reduce perceived impacts on aquatic resources by requiring covered facilities to implement technology or other measures to meet EPA-targeted reductions in water use and corresponding perceived aquatic impacts.  Entergy, other industry members and industry groups, environmental groups, and a coalition of northeastern and mid-Atlantic states challenged various aspects of the rule.  In January 2007 the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals remanded the rule to the EPA for reconsideration.  The court instructed the EPA to reconsider several aspects of the rule that were beneficial to businesses affected by the rule after finding that these provisions of the rule were contrary to the language of the Clean Water Act or were not sufficiently explained in









the rule.  In April 2008 the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review the Second Circuit decision on the question of whether the EPA may take into consideration a cost-benefit analysis in developing these regulations, a consideration of potential benefit to businesses affected by the rule that the Second Circuit disallowed.  In March 2009 the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the petitioners that cost-benefit analysis may be taken into consideration.  The EPA reissued the proposed rule in April 2011.  Entergy filed comments with the EPA on the proposed rule.  The EPA further extended the finalization deadline to November 2013, then to January 2014, and then to April 2014.  In May 2014 the EPA issued the final 316(b) rule, followed by publication in the Federal Register in August 2014, with the final rule effective in October 2014.  Entergy is developing a compliance plan for each affected facility in accordance with the requirements of the final rule.



Entergy filed as a co-petitioner with the Utility Water Act Group a petition for review of the final rule.  The case will be heard in the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals.  Entergy expects briefing on the case to occur in 2015.



Coastal Zone Management Act



Before a federal licensing agency (such as the NRC) may issue a major license or permit for an activity within the federally designated coastal zone, the agency must be satisfied that the requirements of the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA), as applicable, have been met.  In many cases, CZMA requirements are satisfied by the state’s written concurrence with a “consistency determination” filed by the federal license applicant explaining why the activity proposed to be federally licensed is consistent with the state’s coastal management program.  The CZMA gives the state six months to act once the consistency determination is deemed complete; failure to act is treated as a deemed concurrence.  Entergy is pursuing three independent paths to ensure that CZMA requirements for Indian Point license renewal are met.  For additional discussion of the CZMA proceedings related to Indian Point license renewal see “Entergy Wholesale Commodities Authorizations to Operate Its Nuclear Plants” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.



Effluent Limitation Guidelines



In April 2013 the EPA issued proposed effluent limitation guidelines that, if adopted as final, would apply to discharges from Entergy’s generating facilities that hold national pollutant discharge elimination system permits under the Clean Water Act.  The limitations proposed primarily affect coal units.  The proposal includes several options for public consideration.  Entergy submitted comments on the proposed rule and will continue to engage in the public comment process as appropriate.  The EPA announced that the final rule will be issued no later than September 30, 2015.



Federal Jurisdiction of Waters of the United States



In September 2013 the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announced the intention to propose a rule to clarify federal Clean Water Act jurisdiction over waters of the United States.  The announcement was made in conjunction with the EPA’s release of a draft scientific report on the “connectivity” of waters that the agency says will inform the rulemaking.  The proposed rule was published in the Federal Register in April 2014.  The initial 90-day public comment period was extended until November 2014.  Preliminary review indicates that this proposal could significantly increase the number and types of waters included in the EPA’s and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ jurisdiction, which in turn could pose additional permitting and pollutant management burdens on Entergy’s operations.  Entergy is actively engaged in the rulemaking process and anticipates a final rule in April 2015.









Groundwater at Certain Nuclear Sites



The NRC requires nuclear power plants to regularly monitor and report the presence of radioactive material in the environment.  Entergy joined other nuclear utilities and the Nuclear Energy Institute in 2006 to develop a voluntary groundwater monitoring and protection program.  This initiative began after detection of very low levels of radioactive material, primarily tritium, in groundwater at several plants in the United States.  Tritium is a radioactive form of hydrogen that occurs naturally and is also a byproduct of nuclear plant operations.  In addition to tritium, other radionuclides have been found in site groundwater at nuclear plants.



As part of the groundwater monitoring and protection program, Entergy has: (1) performed reviews of plant groundwater characteristics (hydrology) and historical records of past events on site that may have potentially impacted groundwater; (2) implemented fleet procedures on how to handle events that could impact groundwater; and (3) installed groundwater monitoring wells and began periodic sampling.  The program also includes protocols for notifying local officials if contamination is found.  To date, radionuclides such as tritium have been detected at Arkansas Nuclear One, FitzPatrick, Indian Point, Palisades, Pilgrim, Grand Gulf, Vermont Yankee, and River Bend.  Each of these sites has installed groundwater monitoring wells and implemented a program for testing groundwater at the sites for the presence of tritium and other radionuclides.  Based on current information, the concentrations and locations of radionuclides detected at these plants pose no threat to public health or safety, but each site continues to evaluate the results from its groundwater monitoring program.



Indian Point Units 1 and 2 Hazardous Waste Remediation



Prior to Entergy’s purchase of Indian Point Unit 1, the previous owner completed the cleanup and desludging of the Unit 1 water storage pool, generating mixed waste.  The existing mixed waste storage permit and an associated order on consent were transferred to Entergy upon purchasing the unit.  The waste is stored in the Unit 1 containment building in accordance with NRC regulations controlling low level radioactive waste.  An order on consent with NYSDEC requires a quarterly survey of the availability of any commercial facility capable of treating, processing, and disposing of this waste in a commercially reasonable manner.  However, in 2005, NYSDEC revised its regulations to conditionally exempt the storage and disposal of mixed waste that is regulated by the NRC.   Thus, in October 2005 and again in January 2013, Entergy requested that NYSDEC terminate the mixed waste permit and order on consent because the waste falls within the mixed waste exemption.  In April 2013, NYSDEC agreed with Entergy’s request to terminate the permit finding that as long as the facility continues to meet the exemption, the mixed waste permit is not required.  NYSDEC denied the request to terminate the consent order, however, reasoning that it contains provisions for storage and reporting that are still applicable.  Entergy continues to manage the waste according to applicable regulatory requirements.



Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980



The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), authorizes the EPA to mandate clean-up by, or to collect reimbursement of clean-up costs from, owners or operators of sites at which hazardous substances may be or have been released.  Certain private parties also may use CERCLA to recover response costs.  Parties that transported hazardous substances to these sites or arranged for the disposal of the substances are also deemed liable by CERCLA.  CERCLA has been interpreted to impose strict, joint and several liability on responsible parties.  Many states have adopted programs similar to CERCLA.  Entergy subsidiaries in the Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities businesses have sent waste materials to various disposal sites over the years, and releases have occurred at Entergy facilities.  In addition, environmental laws now regulate certain of Entergy’s operating procedures and maintenance practices that historically were not subject to regulation.  Some disposal sites used by Entergy subsidiaries have been the subject of governmental action under CERCLA or similar state programs, resulting in site clean-up activities.  Entergy subsidiaries have participated to various degrees in accordance with their respective potential liabilities in such site clean-ups and have developed experience with clean-up costs.  The affected Entergy subsidiaries have established provisions for the liabilities for









such environmental clean-up and restoration activities.  Details of CERCLA and similar state program liabilities that are notde minimisare discussed in the “Other Environmental Matters” section below.



Coal Combustion Residuals



In June 2010 the EPA issued a proposed rule on coal combustion residuals (CCRs) that contained two primary regulatory options: (1) regulating CCRs destined for disposal in landfills or received (including stored) in surface impoundments as so-called “special wastes” under the hazardous waste program of RCRA Subtitle C; or (2) regulating CCRs destined for disposal in landfills or surface impoundments as non-hazardous wastes under Subtitle D of RCRA.  Under both options, CCRs that are beneficially used in certain processes would remain excluded from hazardous waste regulation.  In December 2014 the EPA issued the final CCR rule with the material being regulated under the second scenario presented above - as non-hazardous wastes regulated under RCRA Subtitle D.



The final regulations create new compliance requirements including modified storage, new notification and reporting practices, product disposal considerations, and CCR unit closure criteria.  Entergy believes that on-site disposal options will be available at its facilities, to the extent needed for CCR that cannot be transferred for beneficial reuse.



Other Environmental Matters



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas



Several class action and other suits have been filed in state and federal courts seeking relief from Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and others for damages caused by the disposal of hazardous waste and for asbestos-related disease allegedly resulting from exposure on Entergy Gulf States, Inc.’s premises (see “Litigation” below).





Entergy Louisiana, and Entergy New Orleans



Several class action and other suits have been filed in state and federal courts seeking relief from Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans and others for damages caused by the disposal of hazardous waste and for asbestos-related disease allegedly resulting from exposure on Entergy Louisiana’s and Entergy New Orleans’s premises (see “Litigation” below).











Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas





Entergy Mississippi, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas



The EPA notified Entergy Mississippi, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Texas, and Entergy New Orleans that the EPA believes those entities are PRPs concerning contamination of an area known as “Devil’s Swamp Lake” near the Port of Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  The area allegedly was contaminated by the operations of Rollins Environmental (LA), Inc, which operated a disposal facility to which many companies contributed waste.  Documents provided by the EPA indicate that Entergy Louisiana may also be a PRP.  Entergy continues to monitor this developing situation.





Litigation



Entergy uses legal and appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against it, but certain states in which Entergy operates have proven to be unusually litigious environments.  Judges and juries in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas have demonstrated a willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs in personal injury, property damage, and business tort cases.  The litigation environment in these states poses a significant business risk to Entergy.



Ratepayer and Fuel Cost Recovery Lawsuits(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)



Texas Power Price Lawsuit



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of this proceeding.



Mississippi Attorney General Complaint



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of this proceeding.



Asbestos Litigation(Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)



See Note 8 to the financial statements for a discussion of this litigation.











Employment and Labor-related Proceedings(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy)



See Note 8 to the financial statements for a discussion of these proceedings.





Employees



Employees are an integral part of Entergy’s commitment to serving customers.  As ofDecember 31, 2014, Entergy subsidiaries employed13,393people.



Utility:Entergy Arkansas1,160Entergy Gulf States Louisiana729Entergy Louisiana890Entergy Mississippi673Entergy New Orleans298Entergy Texas596System Energy—Entergy Operations2,764Entergy Services2,852Entergy Nuclear Operations3,376Other subsidiaries55Total Entergy13,393



Approximately 5,200 employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Utility Workers Union of America, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the United Government Security Officers of America, and the International Union, Security, Police, Fire Professionals of America.





Availability of SEC filings and other information on Entergy’s website



Entergy electronically files reports with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies, and amendments to such reports.  The public may read and copy any materials that Entergy files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.



Entergy uses its website, http://www.entergy.com, as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information.  Filings made with the SEC are posted and available without charge on Entergy’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  These filings include our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format) and current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or statements.  All such postings and filings are available on Entergy’s Investor Relations website free of charge.  Entergy is providing the address to its Internet site solely for the information of investors and does not intend the address to be an active link.  The contents of the website are not incorporated into this report.












Table of Contents