Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy



ENTERGY’S BUSINESS



Entergy is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail electric distribution operations.  Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 MW of aggregate electric generating capacity, including over 10,000 MW of nuclear-fueled capacity.  Entergy’s Utility business delivers electricity to 2.8 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.  Entergy generated annual revenues of $11.4 billion in 2013 and had approximately 14,000 employees as of December 31, 2013.



Entergy operates primarily through two business segments: Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities.



•TheUtilitybusiness segment includes the generation, transmission, distribution, and sale of electric power in portions of Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas, and Louisiana, including the City of New Orleans; and operates a small natural gas distribution business.

•TheEntergy Wholesale Commoditiesbusiness segment includes the ownership and operation of six nuclear power plants located in the northern United States and the sale of the electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers.  In August 2013, Entergy announced plans to close and decommission Vermont Yankee.  The plant is expected to cease power production in the fourth quarter 2014 after its current fuel cycle.  This business also provides services to other nuclear power plant owners.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also owns interests in non-nuclear power plants that sell the electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers.



See Note 13 to the financial statements for financial information regarding Entergy’s business segments.



Strategy



Entergy’s mission is to operate a world-class energy business that creates sustainable value for its owners, customers, employees and communities.  Entergy aspires to achieve top quartile total shareholder returns in a socially and environmentally responsible fashion by leveraging the scale and expertise inherent in its core utility and nuclear operations.  Entergy’s current scope includes electricity generation, transmission, and distribution as well as natural gas distribution.  Entergy focuses on operational excellence with an emphasis on safety, reliability, customer service, sustainability, cost efficiency, risk management, and engaged employees.  Entergy also continually seeks opportunities to grow its utility business to benefit all stakeholders and to optimize its portfolio of assets in an ever-dynamic market through periodic buy, build, hold, or disposal decisions.





Utility



The Utility business segment includes six wholly-owned retail electric utility subsidiaries: Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas.  These companies generate, transmit, distribute and sell electric power to retail and wholesale customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans also provide natural gas utility services to customers in and around Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and New Orleans, Louisiana, respectively.  Also included in the Utility is System Energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy Corporation that owns or leases 90 percent of Grand Gulf.  System Energy sells its power and capacity from Grand Gulf at wholesale to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans.  The six retail utility subsidiaries are each regulated by the FERC and by state utility commissions, or, in the case of Entergy New Orleans, the City Council.  System Energy is regulated by the FERC because all of its transactions are at wholesale.  The overall generation portfolio of the Utility, which relies heavily on natural gas and nuclear generation, is consistent with Entergy’s strong support for the environment.









Customers



As ofDecember 31, 2013, the Utility operating companies provided retail electric and gas service to customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas, as follows:

Electric CustomersGas CustomersArea Served(In Thousands)(%)(In Thousands)(%)Entergy ArkansasPortions of Arkansas70025%Entergy Gulf StatesLouisianaPortions of Louisiana39214%9347%Entergy LouisianaPortions of Louisiana67724%Entergy MississippiPortions of Mississippi44116%Entergy New OrleansCity of New Orleans (a)1686%10353%Entergy TexasPortions of Texas42215%Total customers2,800100%196100%



(a)Excludes the Algiers area of the city, where Entergy Louisiana provides electric service.



Electric Energy Sales



The electric energy sales of the Utility operating companies are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with the peak sales period normally occurring during the third quarter of each year.  On August 8, 2013, Entergy reached a 2013 peak demand of 21,581 MWh, compared to the 2012 peak of 21,866 MWh recorded on July 30, 2012.  Selected electric energy sales data is shown in the table below:



Selected 2013 Electric Energy Sales Data

EntergyArkansasEntergyGulf StatesLouisianaEntergyLouisianaEntergyMississippiEntergyNew OrleansEntergyTexasSystemEnergyEntergy(a)(In GWh)Sales to retailcustomers20,86019,66332,22213,1185,10416,814—107,781Sales for resale:Affiliates7,9186,5801,8441,5434956,2879,794—Others1,0118889230413712—3,020Total29,78927,13134,15814,9655,61223,8139,794110,801Average use perresidential customer(kWh)13,53715,53115,01915,22612,47915,544—14,683



(a)Includes the effect of intercompany eliminations.



The following table illustrates the Utility operating companies’ 2013 combined electric sales volume as a percentage of total electric sales volume, and 2013 combined electric revenues as a percentage of total 2013 electric revenue, each by customer class.











Customer Class% of Sales Volume% of RevenueResidential31.738.0Commercial25.827.0Industrial (a)37.626.9Governmental2.22.4Wholesale/Other2.75.7



(a)Major industrial customers are in the chemical, petroleum refining, and pulp and paper industries.



See “Selected Financial Data” for each of the Utility operating companies for the detail of their sales by customer class for 2009-2013.



Selected 2013 Natural Gas Sales Data



Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana provide both electric power and natural gas to retail customers.  Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana sold 10,436,919 and 6,816,023 Mcf, respectively, of natural gas to retail customers in 2013.  In 2013, 97% of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business, and only 3% from the natural gas distribution business.  For Entergy New Orleans, 85% of operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business and 15% from the natural gas distribution business in 2013.  Following is data concerning Entergy New Orleans’s 2013 retail operating revenue sources.

Customer ClassElectric OperatingRevenueNatural GasRevenueResidential41%50%Commercial38%26%Industrial7%7%Governmental/Municipal14%17%



Retail Rate Regulation



General(Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)



Each Utility operating company regularly participates in retail rate proceedings.  The status of material retail rate proceedings is described in Note 2 to the financial statements.  Certain aspects of the Utility operating companies’ retail rate mechanisms are discussed below.



Entergy Arkansas



Fuel and Purchased Power Cost Recovery



Entergy Arkansas’s rate schedules include an energy cost recovery rider to recover fuel and purchased energy costs in monthly bills.  The rider utilizes prior calendar year energy costs and projected energy sales for the twelve-month period commencing on April 1 of each year to develop an energy cost rate, which is redetermined annually and includes a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery, including carrying charges, of the energy cost for the prior calendar year.  The energy cost recovery rider tariff also allows an interim rate request depending upon the level of over- or under-recovery of fuel and purchased energy costs.  In December 2007 the APSC issued an order stating that Entergy Arkansas’s energy cost recovery rider will remain in effect, and any future termination of the rider would be subject to eighteen months advance notice by the APSC, which would occur following notice and hearing.









Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings regarding recovery of Entergy Arkansas’s storm restoration costs.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s electric rates include a fuel adjustment clause designed to recover the cost of fuel and purchased power costs.  The fuel adjustment clause contains a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense and related carrying charges arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings related to audits of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's fuel adjustment clause filings.



To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana hedges approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s gas rates include a purchased gas adjustment clause based on estimated gas costs for the billing month adjusted by a surcharge or credit that arises from an annual reconciliation of fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.



To help stabilize retail gas costs, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility for its gas purchased for resale through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana hedges approximately one-half of the projected natural gas volumes used to serve its natural gas customers for November through March.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s filings to recover storm-related costs.



Entergy Louisiana



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Louisiana’s rate schedules include a fuel adjustment clause designed to recover the cost of fuel and purchased power costs.  The fuel adjustment clause contains a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense and related carrying charges arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings related to audits of Entergy Louisiana's fuel adjustment clause filings.



To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Louisiana hedges approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.











Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Louisiana’s filings to recover storm-related costs.



Entergy Mississippi



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Mississippi’s rate schedules include energy cost recovery riders to recover fuel and purchased energy costs.  The energy cost rate for each calendar year is redetermined annually and includes a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery of the energy costs as of the 12-month period ended September 30.  Entergy Mississippi’s fuel cost recoveries are subject to annual audits conducted pursuant to the authority of the MPSC.



Power Management Rider



The MPSC approved the purchase of the Attala power plant in November 2005.  In December 2005 the MPSC issued an order approving the investment cost recovery through Entergy Mississippi’s power management rider.  Entergy Mississippi is allowed to recover the annual ownership costs of the Attala plant through the power management rider until it files a general rate case.  The MPSC approved the purchase of the Hinds power plant in February 2012.  In August and October 2012, the MPSC issued orders approving the investment cost recovery through Entergy Mississippi’s power management rider.  The orders have the effect of allowing Entergy Mississippi to recover the annual ownership costs of the Hinds plant until it files a general rate case.  Entergy Mississippi acquired the Hinds plant on November 30, 2012.  Recovery of the Hinds plant costs through the power management rider commenced with January 2013 bills.



To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Mississippi received approval from the MPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Mississippi hedges approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.



Storm Cost Recovery



Entergy Mississippi maintains a storm damage reserve pursuant to orders of the MPSC and consistent with regulatory accounting requirements.  Entergy Mississippi's storm damage provision is funded through its storm damage rider schedule.  In two orders issued in July 2012, the MPSC temporarily increased Entergy Mississippi’s storm damage provision monthly accrual from $750,000 to $2.0 million for bills rendered during the billing months of August 2012 through December 2012, and approved recovery of $14.9 million in prudently incurred storm costs to be amortized over five months, beginning with August 2012 bills.  Beginning with January 2013 bills, the monthly accrual to the storm damage provision reverted back to $750,000.  On July 1, 2013, Entergy Mississippi and the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff entered into a joint stipulation, in which both parties agreed that approximately $32 million in storm restoration costs incurred in 2011 and 2012 were prudently incurred and chargeable to storm damages, while approximately $700,000 in prudently incurred costs were more properly recoverable through the formula rate plan.  Entergy Mississippi and the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff also agreed that the storm damage accrual should be increased from $750,000 per month to $1.75 million per month.  In September 2013 the MPSC approved the joint stipulation with the increase in the storm damage accrual effective with October 2013 bills.



The MPSC has also ordered that Entergy Mississippi will annually submit its storm costs for audit.











Entergy New Orleans



Fuel Recovery



Entergy New Orleans’s electric rate schedules include a fuel adjustment tariff designed to reflect no more than targeted fuel and purchased power costs, adjusted by a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel and purchased power costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.



Entergy New Orleans’s gas rate schedules include a purchased gas adjustment to reflect estimated gas costs for the billing month, adjusted by a surcharge or credit similar to that included in the electric fuel adjustment clause, including carrying charges.  In October 2005 the City Council approved modification of the current gas cost collection mechanism effective November 2005 in order to address concerns regarding its fluctuations, particularly during the winter heating season.  The modifications are intended to minimize fluctuations in gas rates during the winter months.



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy New Orleans’s efforts to recover storm-related costs.



Entergy Texas



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Texas’s rate schedules include a fixed fuel factor to recover fuel and purchased power costs, including interest, that are not included in base rates.  Semi-annual revisions of the fixed fuel factor are made in March and September based on the market price of natural gas and changes in fuel mix.  The amounts collected under Entergy Texas’s fixed fuel factor and any interim surcharge or refund are subject to fuel reconciliation proceedings before the PUCT.  The PUCT fuel cost reviews are discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements.



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings regarding recovery of Entergy Texas’s storm restoration costs.



Electric Industry Restructuring



In June 2009, a law was enacted in Texas that required Entergy Texas to cease all activities relating to Entergy Texas’s transition to competition.  The law allows Entergy Texas to remain a part of the SERC Region, although it does not prevent Entergy Texas from joining another power region.  The law provides that proceedings to certify a power region that Entergy Texas belongs to as a qualified power region can be initiated by the PUCT, or on motion by another party, when the conditions supporting such a proceeding exist.  Under the law, the PUCT may not approve a transition to competition plan for Entergy Texas until the expiration of four years from the PUCT’s certification of Entergy Texas’s power region.



The law also contains provisions that allow Entergy Texas to take advantage of a cost recovery mechanism that permits annual filings for the recovery of reasonable and necessary expenditures for transmission infrastructure improvement and changes in wholesale transmission charges.  This mechanism was previously available to other non-ERCOT Texas utility companies, but not to Entergy Texas.



In September 2011, the PUCT adopted a proposed rule implementing a Distribution Cost Recovery Factor to recover capital and capital-related costs related to distribution infrastructure.  The Distribution Cost Recovery Factor









permits utilities once per year to implement an increase or decrease in rates above or below amounts reflected in base rates to reflect depreciation expense, federal income tax and other taxes, and return on investment.  The Distribution Cost Recovery Factor rider may be changed a maximum of four times between base rate cases, and expires in January 2017, unless otherwise extended by the Texas Legislature.



The law further amended already existing law that had required Entergy Texas to propose for PUCT approval a tariff to allow eligible customers the ability to contract for competitive generation.  The amending language in the  law provides, among other things, that:  1) the tariff shall not be implemented in a manner that harms the sustainability or competitiveness of manufacturers who choose not to participate in the tariff; 2) Entergy Texas shall “purchase competitive generation service, selected by the customer, and provide the generation at retail to the customer”; and 3)  Entergy Texas shall provide and price transmission service and ancillary services under that tariff at a rate that is unbundled from its cost of service.    The law directs that the PUCT may not issue an order on the tariff that is contrary to an applicable decision, rule, or policy statement of a federal regulatory agency having jurisdiction.



Entergy Texas and the other parties to the PUCT proceeding to determine the design of the competitive generation tariff were involved in negotiations throughout 2011 and 2012 with the objective of resolving as many disputed issues as possible regarding the tariff.  The PUCT determined that unrecovered costs that could be recovered through the rider consist only of those costs necessary to implement and administer the competitive generation program and do not include lost revenues or embedded generation costs.  The PUCT also ruled that the amount of customer load that may be included in the competitive generation service program is limited to 115 MW.  After additional negotiations, and ultimately the scheduling of a hearing to resolve remaining contested issues, the PUCT issued the order approving the competitive generation service rider in July 2013.  Entergy Texas filed for rehearing of the PUCT's July 2013 order, which the PUCT denied.  Entergy Texas has since filed its appeal of that PUCT order to the Travis County District Courts, where this matter remains pending.



Franchises



Entergy Arkansas holds exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 307 incorporated cities and towns in Arkansas.  These franchises are unlimited in duration and continue unless the municipalities purchase the utility property.  In Arkansas franchises are considered to be contracts and, therefore, are terminable pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement and applicable statutes.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 56 incorporated municipalities and the unincorporated areas of approximately 18 parishes, and to provide gas service in the City of Baton Rouge and the unincorporated areas of two parishes.  Most of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s franchises have a term of 60 years.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s current electric franchises expire during 2015-2055.



Entergy Louisiana holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 116 incorporated Louisiana municipalities.  Most of these franchises have 25-year terms.  Entergy Louisiana also supplies electric service in approximately 45 Louisiana parishes in which it holds non-exclusive franchises.  Entergy Louisiana’s electric franchises expire during 2015-2039.



Entergy Mississippi has received from the MPSC certificates of public convenience and necessity to provide electric service to areas within 45 counties, including a number of municipalities, in western Mississippi.  Under Mississippi statutory law, such certificates are exclusive.  Entergy Mississippi may continue to serve in such municipalities upon payment of a statutory franchise fee, regardless of whether an original municipal franchise is still in existence.



Entergy New Orleans provides electric and gas service in the City of New Orleans pursuant to indeterminate permits set forth in city ordinances (except electric service in Algiers, which is provided by Entergy Louisiana).  These ordinances contain a continuing option for the City of New Orleans to purchase Entergy New Orleans’s electric and gas utility properties.









Entergy Texas holds a certificate of convenience and necessity from the PUCT to provide electric service to areas within approximately 27 counties in eastern Texas, and holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 68 incorporated municipalities.  Entergy Texas was typically granted 50-year franchises, but recently has been receiving 25-year franchises.  Entergy Texas’s electric franchises expire during 2014-2058.



The business of System Energy is limited to wholesale power sales.  It has no distribution franchises.



Property and Other Generation Resources



Generating Stations



The total capability of the generating stations owned and leased by the Utility operating companies and System Energy as ofDecember 31, 2013, is indicated below:

Owned and Leased Capability MW(a)CompanyTotalGas/OilNuclearCoalHydroEntergy Arkansas4,7361,6461,8191,19774Entergy Gulf States Louisiana2,9691,634968367—Entergy Louisiana6,0594,9031,156——Entergy Mississippi3,4203,000—420—Entergy New Orleans781781———Entergy Texas2,5542,283—271—System Energy1,272—1,272——Total21,79114,2475,2152,25574



(a)“Owned and Leased Capability” is the dependable load carrying capability as demonstrated under actual operating conditions based on the primary fuel (assuming no curtailments) that each station was designed to utilize.















RFP Procurements



The RFPs issued by the Entergy System since the fall of 2002 have sought resources needed to meet near-term summer reliability requirements as well as longer-term requirements through a broad range of wholesale power products, including limited-term (1 to 3 years) and long-term contractual products and asset acquisitions.  Detailed evaluation processes have been developed to analyze submitted proposals, and, with the exception of the January 2008 RFP, the 2008 Western Region RFP, the 2010 Renewable RFP, and the 2011 Entergy Arkansas RFP, each RFP has been overseen by an independent monitor.  The following table illustrates the results of the RFP process for resources acquired since the Fall 2002 RFP.  The contracts below were primarily with non-affiliated suppliers, with the exception of contracts with EWO Marketing for the sale of 185 MW to 206 MW from the RS Cogen plant, contracts with Entergy Power for the sale of approximately 100 MW from the Independence plant, and an MSS-4 agreement between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi for the purchase of approximately 60 MW of Grand Gulf capacity and energy (with deliveries starting January 1, 2013).

RFPShort-term 3rdpartyLimited-termaffiliateLimited-term 3rdpartyLong-termaffiliateLong-term3rd partyTotalFall 2002185-206 MW (a)231 MW101-121 MW (b)718 MW (d)1,235-1,276 MWJanuary 2003 supplemental222 MW————222 MWSpring 2003——381 MW(c)—381 MWFall 2003——390 MW——390 MWFall 2004——1,250 MW——1,250 MW2006 Long-Term———538 MW (e)789 MW (f)1,327 MWFall 2006——780 MW——780 MWJanuary 2008 (g)——————2008 Western Region——300 MW——300 MWSummer 2008 (h)——200 MW——200 MWJanuary 2009 Western Region————150-300 MW150-300 MWJuly 2009 Baseload—336 MW (i)———336 MWSummer 2009 Long-Term (j)———551 MW1,555 MW2,106 MW2010 Renewable RFP————37-40 MW (k)37-40 MW2011 Entergy Arkansas RFP——495 MW——495 MW2011 Western RFP (1)——————2012 Baseload RFP (m)———60 MW—60 MW



(a)Includes a conditional option to increase the capacity up to the upper bound of the range.

(b)The contracted capacity increased from 101 MW to 121 MW in 2010.

(c)This table does not reflect (i) the River Bend 30% life-of-unit purchased power agreements totaling approximately 300 MW between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana (200 MW), and between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans (100 MW) related to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's unregulated portion of the River Bend nuclear station, which portion was formerly owned by Cajun or (ii) the Entergy Arkansas wholesale base load capacity life-of-unit purchased power agreements executed in 2003 totaling approximately 220 MW between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Louisiana (110 MW) and between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy New Orleans (110 MW) related to the sale of a portion of Entergy Arkansas’s coal and nuclear base load resources (which were not included in retail rates); or (iii) 12-month agreements originally executed in 2005 and which are renewed annually between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf









States Louisiana and Entergy Texas, and between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi, relating to the sale of a portion of Entergy Arkansas’s coal and nuclear base load resources (which were not included in retail rates) to those companies.  These resources were identified outside of the formal RFP process but were submitted as formal proposals in response to the Spring 2003 RFP, which confirmed the economic merits of these resources.

(d)Entergy Louisiana's June 2005 purchase of the 718 MW, gas-fired Perryville plant, of which a total of 75% of the output is sold to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas.

(e)In 2011, the LPSC approved Entergy Louisiana’s cancellation of the Little Gypsy Unit 3 re-powering project selected from the 2006 Long-Term RFP.

(f)Entergy Arkansas’s September 2008 purchase of the 789 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Ouachita Generating Facility, of which one-third of the output was sold to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana prior to the purchase of one-third of the facility by Entergy Gulf States Louisiana in November 2009.

(g)At the direction of the LPSC, but with full reservation of all legal rights, Entergy Services issued the January 2008 RFP for Supply-Side Resources seeking fixed price unit contingent products.  Although the LPSC request was directed to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Services issued the RFP on behalf of all of the Utility operating companies.  No proposals were selected from this RFP.

(h)In October 2008, in response to the U.S. financial crisis, Entergy Services on behalf of the Utility operating companies terminated all long-term procurement efforts, including the long-term portion of the Summer 2008 RFP.

(i)Represents the self-supply alternative considered in the RFP, consisting of a cost-based purchase by Entergy Texas, Entergy Louisiana, and Entergy Mississippi of wholesale baseload capacity from Entergy Arkansas.

(j)Includes the Ninemile self-build option, acquisitions from KGen of its Hinds and Hot Spring facilities, and a long-term PPA with Calpine Carville.

(k)Three transactions executed as a result of the RFP are reflected in the table, however one transaction is still pending regulatory approval.

(l)Negotiations with the potential supplier for a definitive agreement arising out of the 2011 Western Region RFP have been discontinued.  Entergy Texas does not intend to pursue any other proposal submitted in the RFP.

(m)Only includes the agreement resulting from the RFP for Entergy Mississippi to purchase capacity and energy from Entergy Arkansas from Grand Gulf (60 MW).



On March 21, 2012 the LPSC approved Entergy Louisiana’s application to construct a nominally-sized 550 MW combined-cycle gas turbine generating facility (Ninemile 6) at its existing Ninemile Point electric generating station that was selected in the Summer 2009 Long-Term RFP.  The facility is expected to be substantially completed as early as  the fourth quarter of 2014. For additional discussion of the Ninemile 6 project see “Capital Expenditure Plans and Other Uses of Capital”in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.



In December 2010 on behalf of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Services issued the 2010 RFP for Long-Term Renewable Energy Resources seeking up to 233 MW of renewable generation resources to meet the requirements of an LPSC general order issued on December 9, 2010.  In September 2012, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana executed a 20-year contract for 28 MW, with the potential to purchase an additional 9 megawatts when available, from Rain CII Carbon LLC's pet coke calcining facility in Sulphur, Louisiana.  The facility began commercial operation in May 2013.  LPSC certification of the contract was received in December 2012.  In March  2013, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana executed a 20-year contract for 8.5 MW from Agrilectric Power Partners, LP’s refurbished rice hull-fueled electric generation facility located in Lake Charles, Louisiana.  LPSC certification of the contract was received in July 2013.  In September 2013, Entergy Louisiana executed a 10-year contract with TX LFG Energy, LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Montauk Energy Holdings, LLC, to purchase approximately 3 MW from its landfill gas-fueled power generation facility located in Cleveland, Texas and filed with the LPSC an application seeking approval and cost recovery for the contract.



In June 2011 on behalf of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Services issued the 2011 RFP for Transition Plan Resources.  The RFP sought up to 750 MW of flexible generation resources through one or more purchased power









agreements to address Entergy Arkansas’s requirements for its 2014-2016 time frame.  Entergy Arkansas concluded its review and evaluation of the proposals submitted in response to the RFP in November 2011 and selected two proposals totaling approximately 795 MW for negotiation of definitive agreements.  In October 2012,  Entergy Arkansas and Union Power Partners, L.P. executed a 3 ½ year agreement for 495 MW from the Union Power Station located in El Dorado, Arkansas.  Cost recovery for this agreement was approved within Entergy Arkansas’s general rate case filed in March 2013.



In August 2012, Entergy Services issued a request for proposals for long-term, stable price, baseload resources on behalf of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and Entergy Mississippi.  The RFP sought between 50 and 150 MW of baseload capacity through a PPA commencing in 2013 for a minimum of 10 years up to life of unit.  As part of the RFP process, Entergy Services market-tested a self-supply alternative, which was a cost-based purchase of 60 MW from Entergy Arkansas’s share of Grand Gulf.  Based on the RFP evaluation results, in November 2012, Entergy elected to proceed with the self-supply alternative and elected not to move forward with any other proposal.  The capacity and associated energy was subsequently allocated to Entergy Mississippi, and MPSC and FERC approval was received for the transaction in December 2012.  Entergy Mississippi also transacted for an additional 30 MW purchase, which did not come through the RFP process, of capacity and energy from Entergy Arkansas’s share of Grand Gulf.  Deliveries under both agreements, totaling 90 MW, began on January 1, 2013, and cost recovery for the 90 MW was approved by the MPSC in January 2013.



Other Procurements From Third Parties



The above table does not include resource acquisitions made outside of the RFP process, including Entergy Mississippi's January 2006 acquisition of the 480 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Attala power plant; Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's March 2008 acquisition of the 322 MW, simple-cycle, gas-fired Calcasieu Generating Facility; and Entergy Louisiana’s April 2011 acquisition of the 580 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Acadia Energy Center Unit 2.  The above table also does not reflect various limited- and long-term contracts that have been entered into in recent years by the Utility operating companies as a result of bilateral negotiations.



Interconnections



The Entergy System's generating units are interconnected by a transmission system operating at various voltages up to 500 kV.  These generating units consist primarily of steam-electric production facilities and are provided dispatch  instructions by the MISO.  Entergy's Utility operating companies are MISO market participants and are interconnected with many neighboring utilities.  MISO’s primary purpose as a Regional Transmission Organization is to guarantee a safe, cost-effective delivery of electrical power and assure consumers of unbiased regional grid management and open access to the transmission facilities.  In addition, the Utility operating companies are members of the SERC Reliability Corporation.  The primary purpose of SERC is to ensure the reliability and adequacy of the electric bulk power supply in the southeast region of the United States.  SERC is a member of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation.



Gas Property



As ofDecember 31, 2013, Entergy New Orleans distributed and transported natural gas for distribution within Algiers and New Orleans, Louisiana, through approximately 2,500 miles of gas pipeline.  As of December 31, 2013, the gas properties of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, which are located in and around Baton Rouge, Louisiana, were not material to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's financial position.



Title



The Entergy System's generating stations are generally located on properties owned in fee simple.  Most of the substations and transmission and distribution lines are constructed on private property or public rights-of-way pursuant to easements, servitudes, or appropriate franchises.  Some substation properties are owned in fee simple.  The









Utility operating companies generally have the right of eminent domain, whereby they may perfect title to, or secure easements or servitudes on, private property for their utility operations.



Substantially all of the physical properties and assets owned by Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy are subject to the liens of mortgages securing bonds issued by those companies.  The Lewis Creek generating station is owned by GSG&T, Inc., a subsidiary of Entergy Texas, and is not subject to its mortgage lien.  Lewis Creek is leased to and operated by Entergy Texas.



Fuel Supply



The sources of generation and average fuel cost per kWh for the Utility operating companies and System Energy for the years 2011-2013 were:

Natural GasNuclearCoalPurchasedPowerYear%ofGenCentsPerkWh%ofGenCentsPerkWh%ofGenCentsPerkWh%ofGenCentsPerkWh2013264.12390.92102.70254.322012273.15330.85112.60293.582011254.85340.81132.31284.59



Actual 2013 and projected 2014 sources of generation for the Utility operating companies and System Energy, including certain power purchases from affiliates under life of unit power purchase agreements, including the Unit Power  Sales Agreement, are:

Natural GasNuclearCoalPurchasedPower20132014201320142013201420132014Entergy Arkansas (a)10%13%50%57%24%24%16%5%Entergy Gulf States Louisiana28%31%27%17%7%13%38%39%Entergy Louisiana28%21%37%38%—%1%35%40%Entergy Mississippi45%33%24%24%16%16%15%27%Entergy New Orleans26%24%53%50%4%3%17%23%Entergy Texas29%17%12%14%8%11%51%58%System Energy (b)——100%100%————Utility (a)26%22%39%34%10%12%25%32%



(a)Hydroelectric power provided less than 1% of Entergy Arkansas’s generation in 2013 and is expected to provide less than 1% of its generation in 2014.

(b)Capacity and energy from System Energy’s interest in Grand Gulf is allocated as follows under the Unit Power Sales Agreement: Entergy Arkansas - 36%; Entergy Louisiana - 14%; Entergy Mississippi - 33%; and Entergy New Orleans - 17%.  Pursuant to purchased power agreements, Entergy Arkansas is selling a portion of its owned capacity and energy from Grand Gulf to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans.



Some of the Utility’s gas-fired plants are capable of also using fuel oil, if necessary.  Although based on current economics the Utility does not expect fuel oil use in 2014, it is possible that various operational events including weather or pipeline maintenance may require the use of fuel oil.











Natural Gas



The Utility operating companies have long-term firm and short-term interruptible gas contracts for both supply and transportation.  Long-term firm contracts for power plants comprise less than 25% of the Utility operating companies' total requirements.  Short-term contracts and spot-market purchases satisfy additional gas requirements.  Entergy Texas owns a gas storage facility that provides reliable and flexible natural gas service to certain generating stations.



Entergy Louisiana entered into a long-term natural gas supply contract beginning January 1, 2013, in which Entergy Louisiana purchases natural gas in annual amounts equal to approximately one-half of its projected annual fuel requirements for certain generating units.



Many factors, including wellhead deliverability, storage and pipeline capacity, and demand requirements of end users, influence the availability and price of natural gas supplies for power plants.  Demand is tied to weather conditions as well as to the prices and availability of other energy sources.  Pursuant to federal and state regulations, gas supplies to power plants may be interrupted during periods of shortage.  To the extent natural gas supplies are disrupted or natural gas prices significantly increase, the Utility operating companies will use alternate fuels, such as oil, or rely to a larger extent on coal, nuclear generation, and purchased power.



Coal



Entergy Arkansas has committed to six one- to three-year contracts that will supply approximately 90% of the total coal supply needs in 2014.  These contracts are staggered in term so that not all contracts have to be renewed the same year.  The remaining 10% of total coal requirements will be satisfied by contracts with a term of less than one year.  Based on continued improved Powder River Basin (PRB) coal deliveries by rail and the high cost of alternate sources and modes of transportation, no alternative coal consumption is expected at Entergy Arkansas during 2014.  Entergy Arkansas has an existing railroad transportation contract that is expected to provide all of Entergy Arkansas’s coal transportation requirements for 2014.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana has committed to four one- to three-year contracts that will supply approximately 90% of Nelson Unit 6 coal needs in 2014.  Additional PRB coal will be purchased through contracts with a term of less than one year to provide the remaining supply needs.  For the same reasons as for Entergy Arkansas’s plants, no alternative coal consumption is expected at Nelson Unit 6 during 2014.  Coal will be transported to Nelson via an existing transportation agreement that is expected to provide all of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s rail transportation requirements for 2014.



For the year 2013, coal transportation delivery to Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana operated coal-fired units met coal demand at the plants and it is expected that delivery times experienced in 2013 will continue through 2014.  Both Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana control a sufficient number of railcars to satisfy the rail transportation requirement.



The operator of Big Cajun 2 - Unit 3, Louisiana Generating, LLC, has advised Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas that it has adequate rail car and barge capacity to meet the volumes of PRB coal requested for 2014.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s and Entergy Texas’s coal nomination requests to Big Cajun 2 - Unit 3 are made on an annual basis.











Nuclear Fuel



The nuclear fuel cycle consists of the following:



•mining and milling of uranium ore to produce a concentrate;

•conversion of the concentrate to uranium hexafluoride gas;

•enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride gas;

•fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies for use in fueling nuclear reactors; and

•disposal of spent fuel.



The Registrant Subsidiaries that own nuclear plants (Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy) are responsible through a shared regulated uranium pool for contracts to acquire nuclear material to be used in fueling Entergy's Utility nuclear units.  These companies own the materials and services in this shared regulated uranium pool on a pro rata fractional basis determined by the nuclear generation capability of each company.  Any liabilities for obligations of the pooled contracts are on a several but not joint basis.  The shared regulated uranium pool maintains inventories of nuclear materials during the various stages of processing.  The Registrant Subsidiaries purchase enriched uranium hexafluoride for their nuclear plant reload requirements at the average inventory cost from the shared regulated uranium pool.  Entergy Operations Inc. contracts separately for the fabrication of nuclear fuel as agent on behalf of each of the Registrant Subsidiaries that owns a nuclear plant.  All contracts for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel are between the Department of Energy (DOE) and the owner of a nuclear power plant.



Based upon currently planned fuel cycles, the nuclear units in both the Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities segments have a diversified portfolio of contracts and inventory that provides substantially adequate nuclear fuel materials and conversion and enrichment services at what Entergy believes are reasonably predictable or fixed prices through most of 2014.  Entergy’s ability to purchase nuclear fuel at reasonably predictable prices, however, depends upon the performance reliability of uranium miners.  There are a number of possible alternate suppliers that may be accessed to mitigate any supplier performance failure, including potentially drawing upon Entergy’s inventory intended for later generation periods depending upon its risk management strategy at that time, although the pricing of any alternate uranium supply from the market will be dependent upon the market for uranium supply at that time.  In addition, some nuclear fuel contracts are on a non-fixed price basis subject to prevailing prices at the time of delivery.



The effects of market price changes may be reduced and deferred by risk management strategies, such as negotiation of floor and ceiling amounts for long-term contracts, buying for inventory or entering into forward physical contracts at fixed prices when Entergy believes it is appropriate and useful.  Entergy buys uranium from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of countries, and from time to time purchases from nearly all qualified reliable major market participants worldwide that sell into the U.S.



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy each have made arrangements to lease nuclear fuel and related equipment and services.  The lessors, which are consolidated in the financial statements of Entergy and the applicable Registrant Subsidiary, finance the acquisition and ownership of nuclear fuel through credit agreements and the issuance of notes.  These arrangements are subject to periodic renewal.



Natural Gas Purchased for Resale



Entergy New Orleans has several suppliers of natural gas.  Its system is interconnected with three interstate and three intrastate pipelines.  Entergy New Orleans has a "no-notice" service gas purchase contract with Atmos Energy which guarantees Entergy New Orleans gas delivery at specific delivery points and at any volume within the minimum and maximum set forth in the contract amounts.  The Atmos Energy gas supply is transported to Entergy New Orleans pursuant to a transportation service agreement with Gulf South Pipeline Co.  This service is subject to FERC-approved rates.  Entergy New Orleans also makes interruptible spot market purchases.  In recent years, natural gas deliveries to Entergy New Orleans have been subject primarily to weather-related curtailments.











Entergy Gulf States Louisiana purchases natural gas for resale under a firm contract from Enbridge Marketing (U.S.) Inc.  The gas is delivered through a combination of intrastate and interstate pipelines.



As a result of the implementation of FERC-mandated interstate pipeline restructuring in 1993, curtailments of interstate gas supply could occur if Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s or Entergy New Orleans's suppliers failed to perform their obligations to deliver gas under their supply agreements.  Gulf South Pipeline Co. could curtail transportation capacity only in the event of pipeline system constraints.



Federal Regulation of the Utility



State or local regulatory authorities, as described above, regulate the retail rates of the Utility operating companies.  The FERC regulates wholesale rates (including intrasystem sales pursuant to the System Agreement) and interstate transmission of electricity, as well as rates for System Energy’s sales of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.



System Agreement(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)





See “System Agreement” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for additional discussion of the System Agreement, including Entergy Arkansas terminating its participation in December 2013 and other Utility operating companies' notices to terminate participation in the future.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for discussion of legal proceedings at the FERC involving the System Agreement.



Transmission



See “Entergy's Integration into the MISO Regional Transmission Organization” in the “Rate, Cost-recovery, and Other Regulation- Federal Regulation” section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.



System Energy and Related Agreements



System Energy recovers costs related to its interest in Grand Gulf through rates charged to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans for capacity and energy under the Unit Power Sales Agreement (described below).  In December 1995, System Energy commenced a rate proceeding at the FERC.  In July 2001 the rate proceeding became final, with the FERC approving a prospective 10.94% return on equity.  The FERC’s decision also affected other aspects of System Energy’s charges to the Utility operating companies that it supplies with









power.  In 1998 the FERC approved requests by Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi to accelerate a portion of their Grand Gulf purchased power obligations.  Entergy Arkansas’s and Entergy Mississippi’s acceleration of Grand Gulf purchased power obligations ceased effective July 2001 and July 2003, respectively, as approved by the FERC.



Unit Power Sales Agreement



The Unit Power Sales Agreement allocates capacity, energy, and the related costs from System Energy’s ownership and leasehold interests in Grand Gulf to Entergy Arkansas (36%), Entergy Louisiana (14%), Entergy Mississippi (33%), and Entergy New Orleans (17%).  Each of these companies is obligated to make payments to System Energy for its entitlement of capacity and energy on a full cost-of-service basis regardless of the quantity of energy delivered.  Payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are System Energy’s only source of operating revenue.  The financial condition of System Energy depends upon the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf and the receipt of such payments.  Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans generally recover payments made under the Unit Power Sales Agreement through rates charged to their customers.





Availability Agreement



The Availability Agreement among System Energy and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans was entered into in 1974 in connection with the financing by System Energy of Grand Gulf.  The Availability Agreement provides that System Energy make available to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans all capacity and energy available from System Energy’s share of Grand Gulf.



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans also agreed severally to pay System Energy monthly for the right to receive capacity and energy from Grand Gulf in amounts that (when added to any amounts received by System Energy under the Unit Power Sales Agreement) would at least equal System Energy’s total operating expenses for Grand Gulf (including depreciation at a specified rate and expenses incurred in a permanent shutdown of Grand Gulf) and interest charges. The September 1989 write-off of System Energy’s investment in Grand Gulf 2, amounting to approximately $900 million, is being amortized for Availability Agreement purposes over 27 years.



The allocation percentages under the Availability Agreement are fixed as follows: Entergy Arkansas - 17.1%; Entergy Louisiana - 26.9%; Entergy Mississippi - 31.3%; and Entergy New Orleans - 24.7%. The allocation percentages









under the Availability Agreement would remain in effect and would govern payments made under such agreement in the event of a shortfall of funds available to System Energy from other sources, including payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement.



System Energy has assigned its rights to payments and advances from Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans under the Availability Agreement as security for its first mortgage bonds and reimbursement obligations to certain banks providing letters of credit in connection with the equity funding of the sale and leaseback transactions described in Note 10 to the financial statements under “Sale and Leaseback Transactions - Grand Gulf Lease Obligations.”  In these assignments, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans further agreed that, in the event they were prohibited by governmental action from making payments under the Availability Agreement (for example, if the FERC reduced or disallowed such payments as constituting excessive rates), they would then make subordinated advances to System Energy in the same amounts and at the same times as the prohibited payments. System Energy would not be allowed to repay these subordinated advances so long as it remained in default under the related indebtedness or in other similar circumstances.



Each of the assignment agreements relating to the Availability Agreement provides that Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans will make payments directly to System Energy. However, if there is an event of default, those payments must be made directly to the holders of indebtedness that are the beneficiaries of such assignment agreements. The payments must be made pro rata according to the amount of the respective obligations secured.



The obligations of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans to make payments under the Availability Agreement are subject to the receipt and continued effectiveness of all necessary regulatory approvals.  Sales of capacity and energy under the Availability Agreement would require that the Availability Agreement be submitted to the FERC for approval with respect to the terms of such sale.  No such filing with the FERC has been made because sales of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf are being made pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.  If, for any reason, sales of capacity and energy are made in the future pursuant to the Availability Agreement, the jurisdictional portions of the Availability Agreement would be submitted to the FERC for approval.



Since commercial operation of Grand Gulf began, payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement to System Energy have exceeded the amounts payable under the Availability Agreement and, therefore, no payments under the Availability Agreement have ever been required.  If Entergy Arkansas or Entergy Mississippi fails to make its Unit Power Sales Agreement payments, and System Energy is unable to obtain funds from other sources, Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans could become subject to claims or demands by System Energy or its creditors for payments or advances under the Availability Agreement (or the assignments thereof) equal to the difference between their required Unit Power Sales Agreement payments and their required Availability Agreement payments because their Availability Agreement obligations exceed their Unit Power Sales Agreement obligations.



The Availability Agreement may be terminated, amended, or modified by mutual agreement of the parties thereto, without further consent of any assignees or other creditors.



Capital Funds Agreement



System Energy and Entergy Corporation have entered into the Capital Funds Agreement, whereby Entergy Corporation has agreed to supply System Energy with sufficient capital to (i) maintain System Energy’s equity capital at an amount equal to a minimum of 35% of its total capitalization (excluding short-term debt) and (ii) permit the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf and pay in full all indebtedness for borrowed money of System Energy when due.



Entergy Corporation has entered into various supplements to the Capital Funds Agreement. System Energy has assigned its rights under such supplements as security for its first mortgage bonds and for reimbursement obligations to certain banks providing letters of credit in connection with the equity funding of the sale and leaseback transactions









described in Note 10 to the financial statements under “Sale and Leaseback Transactions - Grand Gulf Lease Obligations.”  Each such supplement provides that permitted indebtedness for borrowed money incurred by System Energy in connection with the financing of Grand Gulf may be secured by System Energy’s rights under the Capital Funds Agreement on a pro rata basis (except for the Specific Payments, as defined below). In addition, in the supplements to the Capital Funds Agreement relating to the specific indebtedness being secured, Entergy Corporation has agreed to make cash capital contributions directly to System Energy sufficient to enable System Energy to make payments when due on such indebtedness (Specific Payments). However, if there is an event of default, Entergy Corporation must make those payments directly to the holders of indebtedness benefiting from the supplemental agreements. The payments (other than the Specific Payments) must be made pro rata according to the amount of the respective obligations benefiting from the supplemental agreements.



The Capital Funds Agreement may be terminated, amended, or modified by mutual agreement of the parties thereto, upon obtaining the consent, if required, of those holders of System Energy’s indebtedness then outstanding who have received the assignments of the Capital Funds Agreement.



Service Companies



Entergy Services, a corporation wholly-owned by Entergy Corporation, provides management, administrative, accounting, legal, engineering, and other services primarily to the Utility operating companies, but also provides services to Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  Entergy Operations is also wholly-owned by Entergy Corporation and provides nuclear management, operations and maintenance services under contract for ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, subject to the owner oversight of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, respectively.  Entergy Services and Entergy Operations provide their services to the Utility operating companies and System Energy on an “at cost” basis, pursuant to cost allocation methodologies for these service agreements that were approved by the FERC.



Jurisdictional Separation of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas



Effective December 31, 2007, Entergy Gulf States, Inc. completed a jurisdictional separation into two vertically integrated utility companies, one operating under the sole retail jurisdiction of the PUCT, Entergy Texas, and the other operating under the sole retail jurisdiction of the LPSC, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  Entergy Texas now owns all Entergy Gulf States, Inc. distribution and transmission assets located in Texas, the gas-fired generating plants located in Texas, undivided 42.5% ownership shares of Entergy Gulf States, Inc.’s 70% ownership interest in Nelson 6 and 42% ownership interest in Big Cajun 2, Unit 3, which are coal-fired generating plants located in Louisiana, and other assets and contract rights to the extent related to utility operations in Texas.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana now owns all of the remaining assets that were owned by Entergy Gulf States, Inc.  On a book value basis, approximately 58.1% of the Entergy Gulf States, Inc. assets were allocated to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and approximately 41.9% were allocated to Entergy Texas.



Entergy Texas purchases from Entergy Gulf States Louisiana pursuant to a life-of-unit purchased power agreement (PPA) a 42.5% share of capacity and energy from the 70% of River Bend subject to retail regulation.  Entergy Texas was allocated a share of River Bend’s nuclear and environmental liabilities that is identical to the share of the plant’s output purchased by Entergy Texas under the PPA.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana purchases a 57.5% share of capacity and energy from the gas-fired generating plants owned by Entergy Texas, and Entergy Texas purchases a 42.5% share of capacity and energy from the gas-fired generating plants owned by Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  The PPAs associated with the gas-fired generating plants will terminate when the unit(s) is/are removed from Entergy System dispatch.  The dispatch and operation of the generating plants did not change as a result of the jurisdictional separation.  The LPSC staff has asserted that the PPAs would terminate if Entergy Texas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana join MISO.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana filed testimony opposing that position.  The LPSC stayed consideration of this issue until December 31, 2013.  No further action has been taken regarding this matter.  See additional discussion of the PPAs in the "Federal Regulation-Entergy's Integration Into the MISO Regional









Transmission Organization" section in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis.



Earnings Ratios of Registrant Subsidiaries



The Registrant Subsidiaries’ ratios of earnings to fixed charges and ratios of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred dividends or distributions pursuant to Item 503 of SEC Regulation S-K are as follows:



Ratios of Earnings to Fixed ChargesYears Ended December 31,20132012201120102009Entergy Arkansas3.623.794.313.912.39Entergy Gulf States Louisiana3.633.484.363.582.99Entergy Louisiana3.132.081.863.413.52Entergy Mississippi3.192.793.553.353.31Entergy New Orleans1.933.025.374.433.61Entergy Texas1.941.762.342.101.92System Energy5.665.123.853.643.73



Ratios of Earnings to Combined FixedCharges and Preferred Dividends or DistributionsYears Ended December 31,20132012201120102009Entergy Arkansas3.253.363.833.602.09Entergy Gulf States Louisiana3.573.434.303.542.95Entergy Louisiana2.921.931.703.193.27Entergy Mississippi2.972.593.273.163.06Entergy New Orleans1.742.674.744.083.33



The Registrant Subsidiaries accrue interest expense related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense and do not include it in fixed charges.





Entergy Wholesale Commodities



Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership and operation of six nuclear power plants, five of which are located in the Northeast United States, with the sixth located in Michigan, and is primarily focused on selling electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities revenues are primarily derived from sales of energy and generation capacity from these plants.  This business also provides services to other nuclear power plant owners.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also owns interests in non-nuclear power plants that sell the electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers.



Entergy Wholesale Commodities also provides operations and management services, including decommissioning services, to nuclear power plants owned by other utilities in the United States.



Entergy Wholesale Commodities also includes the ownership of, or participation in joint ventures that own, non-nuclear power plants and the sale to wholesale customers of the electric power produced by these plants.











Property



Nuclear Generating Stations



Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership of the following nuclear power plants:

Power PlantMarketInServiceYearAcquiredLocationCapacity-Reactor TypeLicenseExpirationDatePilgrimIS0-NE1972July 1999Plymouth, MA688 MW - Boiling Water2032FitzPatrickNYISO1975Nov. 2000Oswego, NY838 MW - Boiling Water2034Indian Point 3NYISO1976Nov. 2000Buchanan, NY1,041 MW - Pressurized Water2015Indian Point 2NYISO1974Sept. 2001Buchanan, NY1,028 MW - Pressurized Water2013 (b)Vermont Yankee (a)IS0-NE1972July 2002Vernon, VT605 MW - Boiling Water2032PalisadesMISO1971Apr. 2007Covert, MI811 MW - Pressurized Water2031



(a)In August 2013, Entergy announced plans to close and decommission Vermont Yankee.  The plant is expected to cease power production in the fourth quarter 2014 after its current fuel cycle.

(b)The original expiration date of the NRC operating license for Indian Point 2 was September 28, 2013. Indian Point Unit 2 has now entered its “period of extended operation” after expiration of the plant’s initial license term under “timely renewal,” which is a federal statutory rule of general applicability providing for extension of a license for which a renewal application has been timely filed with the licensing agency. The Indian Point license renewal application qualifies for timely renewal protection because it met NRC regulatory standards for timely filing.



Entergy Wholesale Commodities also includes the ownership of two non-operating nuclear facilities, Big Rock Point in Michigan and Indian Point 1 in New York that were acquired when Entergy purchased the Palisades and Indian Point 2 nuclear plants, respectively.  These facilities are in various stages of the decommissioning process.



In March 2011 and May 2012 the NRC renewed the operating licenses of Vermont Yankee and Pilgrim, respectively, for an additional 20 years, as a result of which each license now expires in 2032.  For additional discussion regarding the decision to cease operation of the Vermont Yankee plant in the fourth quarter 2014, see “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” in Note 1 to the financial statements.



The original expiration date of the NRC operating license for Indian Point 2 was in September 2013 and the original expiration date of the NRC operating license for Indian Point 3 is in December 2015.  NRC license renewal applications are in process for both of these plants.  Under federal law, nuclear power plants may continue to operate beyond their original license expiration dates while their renewal applications are pending NRC approval.  Indian Point Unit 2 has now entered its “period of extended operation” after expiration of the plant’s initial license term under “timely renewal,” which is a federal statutory rule of general applicability providing for extension of a license for which a renewal application has been timely filed with the licensing agency. The Indian Point license renewal application qualifies for timely renewal protection because it met NRC regulatory standards for timely filing.  For additional discussion of the license renewal applications, see "Entergy Wholesale Commodities Authorizations to Operate Its Nuclear Plants" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis.











Non-nuclear Generating Stations



Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership, or interests in joint ventures that own, the following non-nuclear power plants:



PlantLocationOwnershipNet OwnedCapacity(a)TypeRhode Island State Energy Center; 583 MWJohnston, RI100%583 MWGasIndependence Unit 2;   842 MWNewark, AR14%121 MW(b)CoalTop of Iowa;   80 MW (c)Worth County, IA50%40 MWWindWhite Deer;   80 MW (c)Amarillo, TX50%40 MWWindRS Cogen;   425 MW (c)Lake Charles, LA50%213 MWGas/SteamNelson 6;   550 MWWestlake, LA11%60 MW(b)Coal



(a)“Net Owned Capacity” refers to the nameplate rating on the generating unit.

(b)The owned MW capacity is the portion of the plant capacity owned by Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  For a complete listing of Entergy’s jointly-owned generating stations, refer to “Jointly-Owned Generating Stations” in Note 1 to the financial statements.

(c)Indirectly owned through interests in unconsolidated joint ventures.



Entergy retired the 544 MW Ritchie Unit 2 gas/oil plant in November 2013.



Independent System Operators



The Pilgrim and Vermont Yankee and Rhode Island plants fall under the authority of the Independent System Operator (ISO) New England and the FitzPatrick and Indian Point plants fall under the authority of the New York Independent System Operator (NYISO).  The Palisades plant falls under the authority of the MISO.  The primary purpose of ISO New England, NYISO, and MISO is to direct the operations of the major generation and transmission facilities in their respective regions; ensure grid reliability; administer and monitor wholesale electricity markets; and plan for their respective region’s energy needs.



Energy and Capacity Sales



As a wholesale generator, Entergy Wholesale Commodities's core business is selling energy, measured in MWh, to its customers.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities enters into forward contracts with its customers and sells energy in the day ahead or spot markets.  In addition to selling the energy produced by its plants, Entergy Wholesale Commodities sells unforced capacity, which allows load-serving entities to meet specified reserve and related requirements placed on them by the ISOs in their respective areas.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities’s forward fixed price power contracts consist of contracts to sell energy only, contracts to sell capacity only, and bundled contracts in which it sells both capacity and energy.  While the terminology and payment mechanics vary in these contracts, each of these types of contracts requires Entergy Wholesale Commodities to deliver MWh of energy, make capacity available, or both.  See “Market and Credit Risk Sensitive Instruments” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for additional information regarding these contracts.



As part of the purchase of the Palisades plant, Entergy executed a 15-year PPA with the seller, Consumers Energy, for 100% of the plant’s output, excluding any future uprates.  Under the purchased power agreement, Consumers Energy will receive the value of any new environmental credits for the first ten years of the agreement.  Palisades and Consumers Energy will share on a 50/50 basis the value of any new environmental credits for years 11 through 15 of the agreement.  The environmental credits are defined as benefits from a change in law that causes capability of the









plant as of the purchase date to become a tradable attribute (e.g., emission credit, renewable energy credit, environmental credit, “green” credit, etc.) or otherwise to have a market value.



Customers



Entergy Wholesale Commodities's customers for the sale of both energy and capacity from its nuclear plants include retail power providers, utilities, electric power co-operatives, power trading organizations and other power generation companies.  These customers include Consolidated Edison and Consumers Energy, companies from which Entergy purchased plants, and ISO New England, NYISO, and MISO.  Substantially all of the counterparties or their guarantors for the planned energy output under contract for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants have public investment grade credit ratings.



Competition





Seasonality



Entergy Wholesale Commodities's revenues and operating income are subject to fluctuations during the year due to seasonal factors, weather conditions, and contract pricing.  Refueling outages are generally scheduled for the spring and the fall, and cause volumetric decreases during those seasons.  When outdoor and cooling water temperatures are lower, generally during colder months, Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants operate more efficiently, and consequently, generate more electricity.  Many of Entergy Wholesale Commodities’s contracts provide for shaped pricing over the course of the year.  As a result of these factors, Entergy Wholesale Commodities’s revenues are typically higher in the first and third quarters than in the second and fourth quarters.



Fuel Supply



Nuclear Fuel



See “Fuel Supply,Nuclear Fuel” in the Utility portion of Part I, Item 1 for a discussion of the nuclear fuel cycle and markets.  Entergy Nuclear Fuels Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary, is responsible for contracts to acquire nuclear materials, except for fuel fabrication, for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants, while Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc. acts as the agent for the purchase of nuclear fuel assembly fabrication services.  All contracts for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel are between the DOE and each of the nuclear power plants.











Other Business Activities



Entergy Nuclear Power Marketing, LLC (ENPM) was formed in 2005 to centralize the power marketing function for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants.  Upon its formation, ENPM entered into long-term power purchase agreements with the Entergy Wholesale Commodities subsidiaries that own nuclear power plants (generating subsidiaries).  As part of a series of agreements, ENPM agreed to assume and/or otherwise service the existing power purchase agreements that were in effect between the generating subsidiaries and their customers.  ENPM functions include origination of new energy and capacity transactions and generation scheduling.



Entergy Nuclear, Inc. pursues service agreements with other nuclear power plant owners who seek the advantages of Entergy’s scale and expertise but do not necessarily want to sell their assets.  Services provided by either Entergy Nuclear, Inc. or other Entergy Wholesale Commodities subsidiaries include engineering, operations and maintenance, fuel procurement, management and supervision, technical support and training, administrative support, and other managerial or technical services required to operate, maintain, and decommission nuclear electric power facilities.  Entergy Nuclear, Inc. provided decommissioning services for the Maine Yankee nuclear power plant and continues to pursue opportunities for Entergy Wholesale Commodities with other nuclear plant owners through operating agreements.



Entergy Nuclear, Inc. also offers operating license renewal and life extension services to nuclear power plant owners.  TLG Services, a subsidiary of Entergy Nuclear Inc., offers decommissioning, engineering, and related services to nuclear power plant owners.  In April 2009, Entergy announced that it will team with energy firm ENERCON to offer nuclear development services ranging from plant relicensing to full-service, new plant deployment.  ENERCON has experience in engineering, environmental, technical and management services.



In September 2003, Entergy agreed to provide plant operation support services for the 800 MW Cooper Nuclear Station located near Brownville, Nebraska.  The original contract was to expire in 2014 corresponding to the original operating license life of the plant.  In 2006 an Entergy subsidiary signed an agreement to provide license renewal services for the Cooper Nuclear Station.  The Cooper Nuclear Station received its license renewal from the NRC on November 29, 2010.  Entergy continues to provide implementation services for the renewed license.  In 2010 an Entergy subsidiary signed an agreement to extend the management support services to Cooper Nuclear Station by 15 years, through January 2029.





Regulation of Entergy’s Business



Federal Power Act



The Federal Power Act provides the FERC the authority to regulate:



•the transmission and wholesale sale of electric energy in interstate commerce;

•sales or acquisition of certain assets;

•securities issuances;

•the licensing of certain hydroelectric projects;

•certain other activities, including accounting policies and practices of electric and gas utilities; and

•changes in control of FERC jurisdictional entities or rate schedules.



The Federal Power Act gives the FERC jurisdiction over the rates charged by System Energy for Grand Gulf capacity and energy provided to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans and over some of the rates charged by Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  The FERC also regulates the provisions of the System Agreement, including the rates, and the provision of transmission service to wholesale market participants.  The FERC also regulates the MISO RTO, an independent entity that maintains functional control over the combined transmission systems of its members and administers wholesale energy, capacity, and ancillary services markets for market participants in the MISO region, including the Utility operating companies.   FERC









regulation of the MISO RTO includes regulation of the design and implementation of the wholesale markets administered by the MISO RTO, as well as the rates, terms, and conditions of open access transmission service over the member systems and the allocation of costs associated with transmission upgrades.



Entergy Arkansas holds a FERC license that expires in 2053 for two hydroelectric projects totaling 70 MW of capacity.



State Regulation



Utility



Entergy Arkansas is subject to regulation by the APSC, which includes the authority to:



•oversee utility service;

•set retail rates;

•determine reasonable and adequate service;

•control leasing;

•control the acquisition or sale of any public utility plant or property constituting an operating unit or system;

•set rates of depreciation;

•issue certificates of convenience and necessity and certificates of environmental compatibility and public need; and

•regulate the issuance and sale of certain securities.



Additionally, Entergy Arkansas serves a limited number of retail customers in Tennessee and as a result, may be required to submit certain matters approved by the APSC for consideration by the Tennessee Regulatory Authority. Additionally, Entergy Arkansas maintains limited facilities in Missouri but does not provide retail electric service to customers in Missouri. Although Entergy Arkansas obtained a certificate with respect to its Missouri facilities, Entergy Arkansas is not subject to the retail rate or regulatory scheme in Missouri.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s electric and gas business and Entergy Louisiana are subject to regulation by the LPSC as to:



•utility service;

•retail rates and charges;

•certification of generating facilities;

•certification of power or capacity purchase contracts;

•audit of the fuel adjustment charge, environmental adjustment charge, and avoided cost payment to Qualifying Facilities;

•integrated resource planning;

•utility mergers and acquisitions and other changes of control; and

•depreciation and other matters.



Entergy Louisiana is also subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council with respect to such matters within Algiers in Orleans Parish, although the precise scope of that jurisdiction differs from that of the LPSC.



Entergy Mississippi is subject to regulation by the MPSC as to the following:



•utility service;

•service areas;

•facilities;

•certification of generating facilities and certain transmission projects;

•retail rates;









•fuel cost recovery;

•depreciation rates; and

•mergers and changes of control.



Entergy Mississippi is also subject to regulation by the APSC as to the certificate of environmental compatibility and public need for the Independence Station, which is located in Arkansas.



Entergy New Orleans is subject to regulation by the City Council as to the following:



•utility service;

•retail rates and charges;

•standards of service;

•depreciation,

•issuance and sale of certain securities; and

•other matters.



To the extent authorized by governing legislation, Entergy Texas is subject to the original jurisdiction of the municipal authorities of a number of incorporated cities in Texas with appellate jurisdiction over such matters residing in the PUCT.  Entergy Texas is also subject to regulation by the PUCT as to:



•retail rates and service in unincorporated areas of its service territory, and in municipalities that have ceded jurisdiction to the PUCT;

•customer service standards;

•certification of certain transmission projects; and

•extensions of service into new areas.



Regulation of the Nuclear Power Industry



Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and Energy Reorganization Act of 1974



Under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, the operation of nuclear plants is heavily regulated by the NRC, which has broad power to impose licensing and safety-related requirements.  The NRC has broad authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, as owners of all or portions of ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, respectively, and Entergy Operations, as the licensee and operator of these units, are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC.  Entergy subsidiaries in the Entergy Wholesale Commodities segment are subject to the NRC’s jurisdiction as the owners and operator of Pilgrim, Indian Point Energy Center, FitzPatrick, Vermont Yankee, and Palisades.  Substantial capital expenditures at Entergy’s nuclear plants because of revised safety requirements of the NRC could be required in the future.



Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982



Spent Nuclear Fuel



Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the DOE is required, for a specified fee, to construct storage facilities for, and to dispose of, all spent nuclear fuel and other high-level radioactive waste generated by domestic nuclear power reactors.  Entergy’s nuclear owner/licensee subsidiaries provide for the estimated future disposal costs of spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982.  The affected Entergy companies entered into contracts with the DOE, whereby the DOE is to furnish disposal services at a cost of one mill per net kWh generated and sold after April 7, 1983, plus a one-time fee for generation prior to that date.  Entergy Arkansas is the only one of the Utility operating companies that generated electric power with nuclear fuel prior to that date and has a recorded









liability as of December 31, 2013 of $181.3 million for the one-time fee.  Entergy accepted assignment of the Pilgrim, FitzPatrick and Indian Point 3, Indian Point 1 and 2, Vermont Yankee, Palisades, and Big Rock Point spent fuel disposal contracts with the DOE held by their previous owners.  The previous owners have paid or retained liability for the fees for all generation prior to the purchase dates of those plants.  The fees payable to the DOE may be adjusted in the future to assure full recovery.  Entergy considers all costs incurred for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel, except accrued interest, to be proper components of nuclear fuel expense.  Provisions to recover such costs have been or will be made in applications to regulatory authorities for the Utility plants.  Entergy’s total spent fuel fees to date, including the one-time fee liability of Entergy Arkansas, have surpassed $1.6 billion (exclusive of amounts relating to Entergy plants that were paid or are owed by prior owners of those plants).





Following the current Presidential administration’s defunding of the Yucca Mountain spent fuel repository program, the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners and others sued the government seeking cessation of collection of the one mill fees mentioned above.  On November 19, 2013, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ordered the DOE to submit a proposal to Congress to reset the fee to zero until the DOE complies with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act or Congress enacts an alternative waste disposal plan.  On January 3, 2014, the DOE submitted the proposal to Congress under protest, but on that same date, filed a petition for rehearing with the D.C. Circuit.  Unless the fee proposal is withdrawn or other contrary court or legislative action is taken, the proposal will become the new fee after a statutorily required waiting period.













Pending DOE acceptance and disposal of spent nuclear fuel, the owners of nuclear plants are providing their own spent fuel storage.  Storage capability additions using dry casks began operations at Palisades in 1993, at ANO in 1996, at FitzPatrick in 2002, at River Bend in 2005, at Grand Gulf in 2006, at Indian Point and Vermont Yankee in 2008, and at Waterford 3 in 2011.  These facilities will be expanded as needed.  Current on-site spent fuel storage capacity at Pilgrim is estimated to be sufficient until 2014, by which time dry cask storage facilities are planned to be placed into service at that unit.



Nuclear Plant Decommissioning



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Texas, and System Energy are entitled to recover from customers through electric rates the estimated decommissioning costs for ANO, the portion of River Bend subject to retail rate regulation, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, respectively.  The collections are deposited in trust funds that can only be used for future decommissioning costs.  Entergy periodically reviews and updates the estimated decommissioning costs to reflect inflation and changes in regulatory requirements and technology, and then makes applications to the regulatory authorities to reflect, in rates, the changes in projected decommissioning costs.



Following a review in 2009, Entergy concluded that there was a funding shortfall for Vermont Yankee of approximately $40 million, which it satisfied with a $40 million guarantee from Entergy Corporation that is still in place.  On July 28, 2010, the LPSC approved increased decommissioning collections for Waterford 3 and the Louisiana regulated share of River Bend and on December 13, 2010, the PUCT approved increased decommissioning collections for the Texas share of River Bend, to address previously identified funding shortfalls.  Entergy currently believes its decommissioning funding will be sufficient for its nuclear plants subject to retail rate regulation, although decommissioning cost inflation and trust fund performance will ultimately determine the adequacy of the funding amounts.



For the Indian Point 3 and FitzPatrick plants purchased in 2000, NYPA retained the decommissioning trusts and the decommissioning liabilities.  NYPA and Entergy subsidiaries executed decommissioning agreements, which specify their decommissioning obligations.  NYPA has the rights to require the Entergy subsidiaries to assume each of the decommissioning liabilities provided that it assigns the corresponding decommissioning trust, up to a specified level, to the Entergy subsidiaries.  If the decommissioning liabilities are retained by NYPA, the responsible Entergy









subsidiary will perform the decommissioning of the plants at a price equal to the lesser of a pre-specified level or the amount in the decommissioning trusts.



In March 2013, Entergy Operations and Entergy Nuclear Operations made filings with the NRC reporting on decommissioning funding for Entergy’s nuclear plants.  Those reports all showed that decommissioning funding for the nuclear plants met the NRC’s financial assurance requirements.



Additional information with respect to Entergy’s decommissioning costs and decommissioning trust funds is found in Note 9 and Note 17 to the financial statements.



Price-Anderson Act



The Price-Anderson Act requires that reactor licensees purchase and maintain the maximum amount of nuclear liability insurance available and participate in an industry assessment program called Secondary Financial Protection  in order to protect the public in the event of a nuclear power plant accident.  The costs of this insurance are borne by the nuclear power industry.  Congress amended and renewed the Price-Anderson Act in 2005 for a term through 2025.  The Price-Anderson Act limits the contingent liability for a single nuclear incident to a maximum assessment of approximately $127.318 million per reactor (with 104 nuclear industry reactors currently participating).  In the case of a nuclear event in which Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, System Energy, or Entergy Wholesale Commodities is liable, protection is afforded through a combination of private insurance and the Secondary Financial Protection program.  In addition to this, insurance for property damage, costs of replacement power, and other risks relating to nuclear generating units is also purchased.  The Price-Anderson Act and insurance applicable to the nuclear programs of Entergy are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to the financial statements.



Environmental Regulation



Entergy’s facilities and operations are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities having jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes, and other environmental matters.  Management believes that Entergy’s businesses are in substantial compliance with environmental regulations currently applicable to its facilities and operations.  Because environmental regulations are subject to change, future compliance requirements and costs cannot be precisely estimated.  Except to the extent discussed below, at this time compliance with federal, state, and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise protecting the environment, is incorporated into the routine cost structure of Entergy’s businesses and is not expected to have a material effect on their competitive position, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position.



Clean Air Act and Subsequent Amendments



The Clean Air Act and its amendments establish several programs that currently or in the future may affect Entergy’s fossil-fueled generation facilities and, to a much lesser extent, certain operations at nuclear and other  facilities.  Individual states also operate similar independent state programs or delegated federal programs that may include requirements more stringent than federal regulatory requirements.  These programs include:



•New source review and preconstruction permits for new sources of criteria air pollutants, new and existing sources of greenhouse gases, and significant modifications to existing facilities;

•Acid rain program for control of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx);

•Nonattainment area programs for control of criteria air pollutants, which could include fee assessments for air pollutant emission sources under Section 185 of the Clean Air Act if attainment is not reached in a timely manner;

•Hazardous air pollutant emissions reduction programs;

•Interstate Air Transport;

•Operating permits program for administration and enforcement of these and other Clean Air Act programs;









•Regional Haze and Best Available Retrofit Technology programs; and

•New and existing source standards for greenhouse gas emissions.



New Source Review (NSR)



Preconstruction permits are required for new facilities and for existing facilities that undergo a modification that results in a significant net emissions increase and is not classified as routine repair, maintenance, or replacement.  Units that undergo certain non-routine modifications must obtain a permit modification and may be required to install additional air pollution control technologies. Entergy has an established process for identifying modifications requiring additional permitting approval and has followed the regulations and associated guidance provided by the states and the federal government with regard to the determination of routine repair, maintenance, and replacement.  In recent years, however, the EPA has begun an enforcement initiative, aimed primarily at coal plants, to identify modifications that it does not consider routine for which the unit did not obtain a modified permit.  Various courts and the EPA have been inconsistent in their judgments regarding modifications that are considered routine.



In February 2011, Entergy received a request from the EPA for several categories of information concerning capital and maintenance projects at the White Bluff and Independence facilities, both located in Arkansas, in order to determine compliance with the Clean Air Act.  In August 2011, Entergy’s Nelson facility, located in Louisiana, received a similar request for information from the EPA.  Entergy responded to both requests.  Neither EPA request for information alleged that the facilities are in violation of law.



Acid Rain Program



The Clean Air Act provides SO2 allowances to most of the affected Entergy generating units for emissions based upon past emission levels and operating characteristics.  Each allowance is an entitlement to emit one ton of SO2 per year.  Plant owners are required to possess allowances for SO2 emissions from affected generating units.  Virtually all Entergy fossil-fueled generating units are subject to SO2 allowance requirements.  Entergy could be required to purchase additional allowances when it generates power using fuel oil.  Fuel oil usage is determined by economic dispatch and influenced by the price of natural gas, incremental emission allowance costs, and the availability and cost of purchased power.



Ozone Nonattainment



Entergy Texas operates one fossil-fueled generating unit (Lewis Creek) in a geographic area that is not in attainment of the currently-enforced national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) for ozone.  The nonattainment area that affects Entergy Texas is the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area.  Areas in nonattainment are classified as "marginal," "moderate," "serious," or "severe."  When an area fails to meet the ambient air standard, the EPA requires state regulatory authorities to prepare state implementation plans meant to cause progress toward bringing the area into attainment with applicable standards.



The Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area was originally classified as "moderate" nonattainment under the 8-hour ozone standard with an attainment date of June 15, 2010.  On June 15, 2007, the Texas governor petitioned the EPA to reclassify Houston-Galveston-Brazoria from "moderate" to "severe" and the EPA granted the request on October 1, 2008.  The area's new attainment date for the 8-hour ozone standard is as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than June 15, 2019.



In March 2008, the EPA revised the NAAQS for ozone, creating the potential for additional counties and parishes in which Entergy operates to be placed in nonattainment status.  On April 30, 2012, the EPA released its final non-attainment designations for the 2008 ozone NAAQS.  In Entergy’s utility service area, the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria, Texas; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Memphis, Tennessee/Mississippi/Arkansas areas were designated as in “marginal” nonattainment.











For these marginal areas attainment must be demonstrated no later than December 31, 2015 (with EPA evaluating whether the area attained the standard based on monitored ozone data from 2013-2015).  In the final designation rule, EPA states that it anticipates the marginal areas will be able to attain by that date based upon reductions attendant with other rules and programs such as the interstate transport rules.  Entergy facilities in these areas may be subject to installation of NOx controls, but the degree of control will remain unknown until the states are further along in implementing in the marginal areas.   Entergy will continue to monitor and engage in the state’s implementation process in Entergy states.



Potential SO2Nonattainment



The EPA issued a final rule in June 2010 adopting an SO21-hour national ambient air quality standard of 75 parts per billion.  The EPA designations for counties in attainment and nonattainment were originally due in June 2012, but the EPA has indicated that it will delay designations except for those areas with existing monitoring data from 2009 to 2011 indicating violations of the new standard. In July 2013 EPA issued final designations for these areas.  In Entergy's utility service territory, only St. Bernard Parish in Louisiana is designated as non-attainment for the SO21-hour national ambient air quality standard of 75 parts per billion.  Entergy does not have a generation asset in that parish.  In all other areas, analysis is required once EPA issues additional final regulations and guidance.  Additional capital projects or operational changes may be required for Entergy facilities in these areas.



Hazardous Air Pollutants



The EPA released the final Mercury and Air Toxics Standard (MATS) rule in December 2011 and the rule became effective in April 2012.  Entergy currently is on schedule to have the required controls in place for compliance at Entergy’s coal-fired units.  Compliance with MATS is required by the Clean Air Act within three years, or by 2015, although certain extensions of this deadline are available from state permit authorities and the EPA.  Entergy has applied for and received a one-year extension, as allowed by the Clean Air Act, for its affected facilities in Arkansas and Louisiana.



Cross-State Air Pollution



In March 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which was intended to reduce SO2 and NOx emissions from electric generation plants in order to improve air quality in twenty-nine eastern states.  The rule required a combination of investment of capital to install pollution control equipment and increased operating costs through the purchase of emission allowances.  Entergy began implementation in 2007, including installation of controls at several facilities and the development of an emission allowance procurement strategy.



Based on several court challenges, the CAIR was vacated and remanded to the EPA by the D.C. Circuit in 2008.  The court allowed the CAIR to become effective in January 2009, while the EPA revised the rule.  On July 7, 2011, the EPA released its final Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR, which previously was referred to as the Transport Rule).  The rule was directed at limiting the interstate transport of emissions of NOx and SO2 as precursors to ozone and fine particulate matter.  The final rule provided a significantly lower number of allowances to Entergy’s Utility states than did the draft rule.  Entergy’s capital investment and annual allowance purchase costs under the CSAPR would depend on the economic assessment of NOx and SO2 allowance markets, the cost of control technologies, generation unit utilization, and the availability and cost of purchased power.



Entergy filed a petition for review with the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and a petition with the EPA for reconsideration of the rule and stay of its effectiveness.  Several other parties filed similar petitions.  In December 2011 the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit Court stayed CSAPR and instructed the EPA to continue administering CAIR, pending further judicial review.  In August 2012 the court issued a decision vacating CSAPR and leaving CAIR in place pending the promulgation of a lawful replacement for both rules.  In January 2013 the court denied petitions for reconsideration filed by the EPA and certain states and intervenors.  In March 2013 the EPA and other parties filed petitions for certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court.  The U.S. Supreme Court issued an order in









June 2013 granting the EPA’s and environmental groups’ petitions for review of the D.C. Circuit’s decision vacating CSAPR.  Oral argument occurred in December 2013 and a decision is expected by mid-2014.  Entergy is complying with CAIR as it continues to be implemented until further instruction from the court or the EPA.



Regional Haze





Fine Particle (PM2.5) National Ambient Air Quality Standard



On December 14, 2012, the EPA released regulations that lowered the NAAQS for fine particle pollution or PM2.5.  Currently, the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria counties area in Texas and Pulaski County in Arkansas could potentially be designated as non-attainment of the new NAAQS.  The EPA projections are that these areas will be in attainment by 2020 due to emission reductions from other EPA and state regulations.



The EPA anticipates making initial attainment/nonattainment designations by December 2014, with those designations likely becoming effective in early 2015.  Following nonattainment designation, states with areas designated nonattainment will be required to develop state implementation plans that outline control requirements that enable the affected counties and parishes to reach attainment status.  States would have until 2020 (five years after designations are effective) to meet the revised annual PM2.5 standard.  A state may request a possible extension to 2025 depending on the severity of an area’s fine particle pollution problems and the availability of pollution controls.  Entergy will continue to monitor and engage in the state’s implementation process in Entergy states.



Potential Legislative, Regulatory, and Judicial Developments



In addition to the specific instances described above, there are a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives concerning air emissions, as well as other media, that are under consideration at the federal, state, and local level.  Because of the nature of Entergy’s business, the imposition of any of these initiatives could affect Entergy’s operations.  Entergy continues to monitor these initiatives and activities in order to analyze their potential operational and cost implications.  These initiatives include:



•designation by the EPA and state environmental agencies of areas that are not in attainment with national ambient air quality standards;









•introduction of bills in Congress and development of regulations by the EPA proposing further limits on NOx, SO2, mercury, and carbon dioxide and other air emissions.  New legislation or regulations applicable to stationary sources could take the form of market-based cap-and-trade programs, direct requirements for the installation of air emission controls onto air emission sources, or other or combined regulatory programs.  Entergy cannot estimate the effect of any future legislation at this time due to the uncertainty of the regulatory format;

•efforts in Congress or at the EPA to establish a mandatory federal carbon dioxide emission control structure or unit performance standards;

•revisions to the estimates of the Social Cost of Carbon used for regulatory impact analysis of Federal laws and regulations;

•implementation of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative by several states in the northeastern United States and similar actions in other regions of the United States;

•efforts on the state and federal level to codify renewable portfolio standards, a clean energy standard, or a similar mechanism requiring utilities to produce or purchase a certain percentage of their power from defined renewable energy sources or energy sources with lower emissions;

•efforts to develop more stringent state water quality standards, effluent limitations for Entergy’s industry sector, stormwater runoff control regulations, and cooling water intake structure requirements;

•efforts to restrict the previously-approved continued use of oil-filled equipment containing certain levels of PCBs; and

•efforts by certain external groups to encourage reporting and disclosure of carbon dioxide emissions and risk.  Entergy has prepared responses for the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) annual questionnaire for the past several years and has given permission for those responses to be posted to CDP’s website.





Greenhouse Gas Reporting



In September 2009, the EPA finalized a rule to require reporting of several greenhouse gases.  This rule requires Entergy to report annually greenhouse gas emissions from operating power plants, various combustion sources, certain transmission and distribution equipment, and natural gas distribution operations.



New Source Performance Standards for Greenhouse Gas Emissions



As a part of a climate plan announced June 25, 2013, President Obama directed the EPA to (i) reissue proposed carbon pollution standards for new power plants by September 20, 2013, with finalization of the rules to occur in a timely manner; (ii) issue proposed carbon pollution standards, regulations, or guidelines, as appropriate, for modified, reconstructed, and existing power plants no later than June 1, 2014; (iii) finalize those rules by no later than June 1,









2015; and (iv) include in the guidelines addressing existing power plants a requirement that states submit to the EPA the implementation plans required under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act and its implementing regulations by no later than June 30, 2016.  In September 2013 the EPA issued the proposed NSPS rule for new sources.  The rule was published in the Federal Register on January 8, 2014, with comments due on March 10, 2014.  Entergy is reviewing  the proposal and is engaged with industry associations in the commenting process.  Entergy is actively engaged in the rulemaking process.



Nelson Unit 6 (Entergy Gulf States Louisiana)



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana has self-reported to the LDEQ an annual carbon monoxide (CO) emission limit deviation at the Nelson Unit 6 coal-fired facility for the years 2006-2010 and the failure to report these deviations in semi-annual reporting and in annual Title V compliance certifications.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana is not required to monitor carbon monoxide emissions from Nelson Unit 6 using a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS).  Stack tests performed in 2010 appear to indicate CO emissions in excess of the maximum hourly limit for three - 1 hour test runs; however, comparison of the 2010 stack tests with the most recent previous tests, from 2006, appear to indicate that the permit limits were calculated incorrectly in the Title V Permit application and should have been higher using the 2006 stack test as the basis.   The 2010 test emission levels did not cause a violation of NAAQS.  Additionally, the 2010 stack testing, which was performed in compliance with an EPA data request connected to the agency’s development of a new air emissions rule, was not taken during a period of normal and representative operations for Nelson 6.   Settlement negotiations continue with the LDEQ.



Clean Water Act



The 1972 amendments to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (known as the Clean Water Act) provide the statutory basis for the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit program and the basic structure for regulating the discharge of pollutants from point sources to waters of the United States.  The Clean Water Act requires virtually all discharges of pollutants to waters of the United States to be permitted.  Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act regulates cooling water intake structures, section 401 of the Clean Water Act requires a water quality certification from the state in support of certain federal actions and approvals, and section 404 regulates the dredge and fill of waters of the United States, including jurisdictional wetlands.



NPDES Permits and Section 401 Water Quality Certifications



NPDES permits are subject to renewal every five years.  Consequently, Entergy is currently in various stages of the data evaluation and discharge permitting process for its power plants.  Additionally, the State of New York has taken the position that a new state-issued water quality certification is required as part of the NRC license renewal process.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities’s Indian Point nuclear facility in New York is seeking a new Section 401 certification prior to license renewal under full reservation of rights.



Indian Point



Entergy is involved in an administrative permitting process with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) for renewal of the Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 discharge permit.  In November 2003 the NYSDEC issued a draft permit indicating that closed cycle cooling would be considered the “best technology available” for minimizing alleged adverse environmental effects attributable to the intake of cooling water at Indian Point, subject to a feasibility determination and alternatives analysis for that technology, if Entergy applied for and received NRC license renewal for Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3.  Upon becoming effective, the draft permit also would have required payment of approximately $24 million annually, and an annual 42 unit-day outage period, until closed cycle cooling is implemented.  Entergy is participating in the administrative process to request that the draft permit be modified prior to final issuance, and opposes any requirement to install cooling towers at Indian Point.













In February 2010, Entergy provided to the NYSDEC an updated estimate of the capital cost to retrofit Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 with cooling towers.  Construction costs for retrofitting with cooling towers are estimated to be at least $1.19 billion, in addition to lost generation of approximately 14.5 terawatt-hours (TWh) during the forced outage of both units that is estimated to take at least 42 weeks.  Entergy also proposed an alternative to the cooling towers, the use of cylindrical wedgewire screens, the construction costs of which are now expected to be approximately $250 million to $300 million.  Because a cooling tower retrofitting of this size and complexity has never been undertaken at an operating nuclear facility, significant uncertainties exist in the capital cost estimates and, therefore, the actual capital costs could be materially higher than estimated.  Moreover, construction outage-related costs to Entergy have not been calculated because of the significant variability in power pricing at any given time, but they are expected to be significant and may exceed the capital costs.  The capital cost estimate for the wedgewire screen construction is also subject to uncertainty.  Hearings on certain issues began in 2011 in consolidation with certain issues in the water quality certification matter that is discussed further below.



Entergy submitted its application for a water quality certification to the NYSDEC in April 2009, with a reservation of rights regarding the applicability of Section 401 in this case.  After Entergy submitted certain additional information in response to NYSDEC requests for additional information, in February 2010 the NYSDEC staff determined that Entergy’s water quality certification application was complete.  In April 2010 the NYSDEC staff issued a proposed notice of denial of Entergy’s water quality certification application (the Notice).  NYSDEC staff’s Notice triggered an administrative adjudicatory hearing before NYSDEC ALJs on the proposed Notice.  The NYSDEC staff decision does not restrict Indian Point operations, but the issuance of a certification is potentially required prior to NRC issuance of renewed unit licenses.



In June 2011, Entergy filed notice with the NRC that the NYSDEC, the agency that would issue or deny a water quality certification for the Indian Point license renewal process, has taken longer than one year to take final action on Entergy’s application for a water quality certification and, therefore, had waived its opportunity to require a certification under the provisions of Section 401 of the Clean Water Act.  The NYSDEC had notified the NRC that it disagrees with Entergy’s position and does not believe that it has waived the right to require a certification.  The NYSDEC ALJs overseeing the agency’s certification adjudicatory process stated in a ruling issued in July 2011 that while the waiver issue is pending before the NRC, the NYSDEC hearing process will continue on selected issues.  The ALJs held a Legislative Hearing (agency public comment session) and an Issues Conference (pre-trial conference) in July 2010 and set certain issues for trial in October 2011.



Hearings were held in July 2013 before NYSDEC ALJs on environmental issues related to Indian Point’s wedgewire screen proposal for “best technology available."  The ALJs have issued no partial decisions on the several issues that have been litigated during the past two years and have not announced a schedule for doing so. Hearings are scheduled to continue in 2014 and will be followed by post-hearing briefing.  After the full hearing on the merits, the









ALJs will issue a recommended decision to the Commissioner who will then issue the final agency decision.  A party to the proceeding can appeal the decision of the Commissioner to state court.



Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station



On October 9, 2012, EcoLaw, a coalition of several environmental groups, served Entergy Nuclear Generating Company and Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc. with a notice of intent (NOI) to sue under the Clean Water Act for alleged violations at the Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station.  The NOI alleges 33,253 discharge permit violations since 1994 (including alleged violations prior to Entergy’s ownership; Entergy purchased the plant in 1999) and seeks $25,000 per violation for a total of $831,325,000.  The Clean Water Act states that an alleged violator must be given 60 days notice prior to a citizen’s suit being filed.  Review of the NOI indicates that many of the alleged violations were discharges in compliance with the current EPA facility discharge permit, which the putative plaintiff alleges was improperly issued or modified.  An additional NOI was served by EcoLaw to the same Entergy parties and the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection alleging violations of state water quality standards and requesting revocation of the state-issued Section 401 Water Quality Certification associated with the plant’s water discharge permit.  On November 2, 2012 and December 7, 2012, Entergy filed responses to the state and federal notices of intent to sue.  To date, Pilgrim has not received notice that EcoLaw has initiated any lawsuits against Pilgrim.



316(b) Cooling Water Intake Structures







Entergy will continue to review the revised proposed rule and monitor the activities of the EPA and the states toward the implementation of Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act.  Until the final rule is issued by the EPA , deadlines for determining compliance with Section 316(b) and for any required capital or operational expenditures are unknown at this time.  As a result, management cannot predict the amounts Entergy will ultimately be required to spend to comply with Section 316(b) and any related state regulations, although such amounts could be significant.



Coastal Zone Management Act



Before a federal licensing agency (such as the NRC) may issue a major license or permit for an activity within the federally designated coastal zone, the agency must be satisfied that the requirements of the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA), as applicable, have been met.  In many cases, CZMA requirements are satisfied by the state's written concurrence with a "consistency determination" filed by the federal license applicant explaining why the activity proposed to be federally licensed is consistent with the state's coastal management program.  The CZMA gives the









state six months to act once the consistency determination is deemed complete; failure to act is treated as a deemed concurrence.  Entergy is pursuing three independent paths to ensure that CZMA requirements for Indian Point license renewal are met.  For additional discussion of the CZMA proceedings related to Indian Point license renewal see “Part 1, Item 1,Entergy Wholesale Commodities–Property -Nuclear Generating Stations.”

Effluent Limitation Guidelines



In April 2013 the EPA issued proposed effluent limitation guidelines that, if adopted as final, would apply to discharges from Entergy’s generating facilities that hold national pollutant discharge elimination system permits under the Clean Water Act.  The proposal includes several options for public consideration.  Entergy submitted comments on the proposed rule and will continue to engage in the public comment process as appropriate.



Federal Jurisdiction of Waters of the United States



In September 2013 the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announced the intention to propose a rule to clarify federal Clean Water Act jurisdiction over waters of the United States.  The announcement was made in conjunction with the EPA's release of a draft scientific report on the "connectivity" of waters that the agency says will inform the rulemaking.  Entergy is continuing to evaluate these documents and agency actions, but preliminary review indicates that this proposal could significantly increase the number and types of waters included in the EPA's and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' jurisdiction, which in turn could pose additional permitting and pollutant management burdens on Entergy's operations.



Groundwater at Certain Nuclear Sites



The NRC requires nuclear power plants to regularly monitor and report the presence of radioactive material in the environment.  Entergy joined other nuclear utilities and the Nuclear Energy Institute in 2006 to develop a voluntary groundwater monitoring and protection program.  This initiative began after detection of very low levels of radioactive material, primarily tritium, in groundwater at several plants in the United States.  Tritium is a radioactive form of hydrogen that occurs naturally and is also a byproduct of nuclear plant operations.  In addition to tritium, other radionuclides have been found in site groundwater at nuclear plants.



As part of the groundwater monitoring and protection program, Entergy has: (1) performed reviews of plant groundwater characteristics (hydrology) and historical records of past events on site that may have potentially impacted groundwater; (2) implemented fleet procedures on how to handle events that could impact groundwater; and (3) installed groundwater monitoring wells and began periodic sampling.  The program also includes protocols for notifying local officials if contamination is found.  To date, radionuclides such as tritium have been detected at Arkansas Nuclear One, FitzPatrick, Indian Point, Palisades, Pilgrim, Grand Gulf, Vermont Yankee, and River Bend.  Each of these sites has installed groundwater monitoring wells and implemented a program for testing groundwater at the sites for the presence of tritium.  Based on current information, the concentrations and locations of tritium detected at these plants pose no threat to public health or safety, but each site continues to evaluate the results from its groundwater monitoring program.



Indian Point Units 1 and 2 Hazardous Waste Remediation



Prior to Entergy’s purchase of Indian Point Unit 1, the previous owner completed the cleanup and desludging of the Unit 1 water storage pool, generating mixed waste.  The existing mixed waste storage permit and an associated order on consent were transferred to Entergy upon purchasing the unit.  The waste is stored in the Unit 1 containment building in accordance with NRC regulations controlling low level radioactive waste.  An order on consent with NYSDEC requires a quarterly survey of the availability of any commercial facility capable of treating, processing, and disposing of this waste in a commercially reasonable manner.  However, in 2005, NYSDEC revised its regulations to conditionally exempt the storage and disposal of mixed waste that is regulated by the NRC.   Thus, in October 2005 and again in January 2013, Entergy requested that NYSDEC terminate the mixed waste permit and order on consent because the waste falls within the mixed waste exemption.  On April 26, 2013, NYSDEC agreed with Entergy’s request to terminate the permit finding that as long as the facility continues to meet the exemption, the mixed waste permit is









not required.  NYSDEC denied the request to terminate the consent order, however, reasoning that it contains provisions for storage and reporting that are still applicable.  Entergy continues to manage the waste according to applicable regulatory requirements.



Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980



de minimis

are discussed in the “Other Environmental Matters” section below.



Coal Combustion Residuals



In June 2010 the EPA issued a proposed rule on coal combustion residuals (CCRs) that contains two primary regulatory options: (1) regulating CCRs destined for disposal in landfills or received (including stored) in surface impoundments as so-called “special wastes” under the hazardous waste program of RCRA Subtitle C; or (2) regulating CCRs destined for disposal in landfills or surface impoundments as non-hazardous wastes under Subtitle D of RCRA.  Under both options, CCRs that are beneficially used in certain processes would remain excluded from hazardous waste regulation.



The proposed regulations would create new compliance requirements including modified storage, new notification and reporting practices, new financial assurance requirements, and product disposal considerations.  According to EPA estimates, the annualized cost (in 2010 $)of on-site disposal under the two proposals would be $3.6 million to $9 million for the White Bluff and Independence facilities and $1.7 million to $3.3 million for the Nelson Unit 6 facility.  If Entergy utilized off-site disposal, which it would not plan to do, the EPA’s total cost estimates for disposal of CCRs under Subtitle C regulation ranges from $250 to $350 million per year.  Entergy believes that on-site disposal options will be available at its facilities, to the extent needed for CCR that cannot be transferred for beneficial reuse.  Entergy commented on the proposed rule and will continue to monitor and participate in the rulemaking process, which is expected to be finalized by December 2014.



Other Environmental Matters



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas



Several class action and other suits have been filed in state and federal courts seeking relief from Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and others for damages caused by the disposal of hazardous waste and for asbestos-related disease allegedly resulting from exposure on Entergy Gulf States, Inc.’s premises (see “Litigation” below).



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana is currently involved in the second phase of the remedial investigation of the Lake Charles Service Center site, located in Lake Charles, Louisiana.  A manufactured gas plant (MGP) is believed to have operated at this site from approximately 1916 to 1931.  Coal tar, a by-product of the distillation process employed









at MGPs, was apparently routed to a portion of the property for disposal.  The same area has also been used as a landfill.  In 1999, Entergy Gulf States, Inc. signed a second administrative consent order with the EPA to perform a removal action at the site.  In 2002 approximately 7,400 tons of contaminated soil and debris were excavated and disposed of from an area within the service center.  In 2003 a cap was constructed over the remedial area to prevent the migration of contamination to the surface.  In August 2005 an administrative order was issued by the EPA requiring that a 10-year groundwater study be conducted at this site.  The groundwater monitoring study commenced in January 2006 and is continuing.  In 2010 the EPA conducted a Five Year Review (FYR) of the 10-year groundwater monitoring program at Lake Charles.  Negotiations are on-going regarding whether additional actions will be necessary at the site.  If additional actions are necessary, site expenditures will increase commensurate with the additional chosen site remedies. Entergy does not have sufficient information at this time to estimate additional site costs, if any. Entergy also has made a payment to the EPA of $275,000 for past agency oversight costs. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas each believe that its remaining responsibility for this site will not materially exceed the existing clean-up provisions of $0.3 million for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and $0.2 million for Entergy Texas.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and Entergy New Orleans



Several class action and other suits have been filed in state and federal courts seeking relief from Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans and others for damages caused by the disposal of hazardous waste and for asbestos-related disease allegedly resulting from exposure on Entergy Louisiana’s and Entergy New Orleans’s premises (see “Litigation” below).



During 1993, the LDEQ issued new rules for solid waste regulation, including regulation of wastewater impoundments.  Entergy Louisiana determined that some of its power plant wastewater impoundments were affected by these regulations and required remediation, repair, or closure.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans were also affected.  In 2013, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and Entergy New Orleans eliminated their provisions for the liability associated with ongoing wastewater remediation and repairs and closures.  Elimination of the provisions occurred because several wastewater impoundments were satisfactorily closed in place and removed from the Louisiana Solid Waste Program and all necessary approvals have been received from the LDEQ.



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas





Entergy Mississippi, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas



The EPA notified Entergy Mississippi, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Texas, and Entergy New Orleans that the EPA believes those entities are PRPs concerning contamination of an area known as “Devil’s Swamp Lake” near the Port of Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  The area allegedly was contaminated by the operations of Rollins









Environmental (LA), Inc, which operated a disposal facility to which many companies contributed waste.  Documents provided by the EPA indicate that Entergy Louisiana may also be a PRP.  Entergy continues to monitor this developing situation.





Litigation



Entergy uses legal and appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against it, but certain states in which Entergy operates have proven to be unusually litigious environments.  Judges and juries in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas have demonstrated a willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs in personal injury, property damage, and business tort cases.  The litigation environment in these states poses a significant business risk to Entergy.



Ratepayer and Fuel Cost Recovery Lawsuits(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)



Texas Power Price Lawsuit



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of this proceeding.



Mississippi Attorney General Complaint



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of this proceeding.



Asbestos Litigation(Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)



See Note 8 to the financial statements for a discussion of this litigation.



Employment and Labor-related Proceedings(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy)



See Note 8 to the financial statements for a discussion of these proceedings.













Employees



Employees are an integral part of Entergy’s commitment to serving customers.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, Entergy subsidiaries employed13,808people.



Utility:Entergy Arkansas1,274Entergy Gulf States Louisiana763Entergy Louisiana923Entergy Mississippi724Entergy New Orleans318Entergy Texas607System Energy—Entergy Operations2,880Entergy Services2,728Entergy Nuclear Operations3,522Other subsidiaries69Total Entergy13,808



Approximately 5,200 employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Utility Workers Union of America, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the United Government Security Officers of America, and the International Union, Security, Police, Fire Professionals of America.





Availability of SEC filings and other information on Entergy’s website



Entergy electronically files reports with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies, and amendments to such reports.  The public may read and copy any materials that Entergy files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.



Entergy uses its website, http://www.entergy.com, as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information.  Filings made with the SEC are posted and available without charge on Entergy's website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  These filings include our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format) and current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or statements.  All such postings and filings are available on Entergy's Investor Relations website free of charge.  Entergy is providing the address to its Internet site solely for the information of investors and does not intend the address to be an active link.  The contents of the website are not incorporated into this report.












Table of Contents