Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy



ENTERGY’S BUSINESS



Entergy is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail electric distribution operations.  Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 MW of aggregate electric generating capacity, including over 10,000 MW of nuclear-fueled capacity. Entergy’s Utility business delivers electricity to 2.8 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.  Entergy generated annual revenues of $10.3 billion in 2012 and had approximately 15,000 employees as of December 31, 2012.



Entergy operates primarily through two business segments: Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities.



·TheUtilitybusiness segment includes the generation, transmission, distribution, and sale of electric power in portions of Arkansas, Mississippi, Texas, and Louisiana, including the City of New Orleans; and operates a small natural gas distribution business.  As discussed in more detail in “Plan to Spin Off the Utility’s Transmission Business” section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis in December 2011, Entergy entered into an agreement to spin off its transmission business and merge it with a newly-formed subsidiary of ITC Holdings Corp.

·TheEntergy Wholesale Commoditiesbusiness segment includes the ownership and operation of six nuclear power plants located in the northern United States and the sale of the electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers.  This business also provides services to other nuclear power plant owners.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also owns interests in non-nuclear power plants that sell the electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers.



See Note 13 to the financial statements for financial information regarding Entergy’s business segments.



Strategy



Entergy aspires to achieve industry-leading total shareholder returns in an environmentally responsible fashion by leveraging the scale and expertise inherent in its core nuclear and utility operations.  Entergy’s current scope includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution as well as natural gas distribution.  Entergy focuses on operational excellence with an emphasis on safety, reliability, customer service, sustainability, cost efficiency, and risk management.  Entergy also focuses on portfolio management to make periodic buy, build, hold, or sell decisions based upon its analytically-derived points of view, which are updated as market conditions evolve.



Utility



The Utility business segment includes six wholly-owned retail electric utility subsidiaries: Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas.  These companies generate, transmit, distribute and sell electric power to retail and wholesale customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans also provide natural gas utility services to customers in and around Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and New Orleans, Louisiana, respectively.  Also included in the Utility is System Energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy Corporation that owns or leases 90 percent of Grand Gulf.  System Energy sells its power and capacity from Grand Gulf at wholesale to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans.  The six retail utility subsidiaries are each regulated by the FERC and by state utility commissions, or, in the case of Entergy New Orleans, the City Council.  System Energy is regulated by the FERC because all of its transactions are at wholesale.  The overall generation portfolio of the Utility, which relies heavily on natural gas and nuclear generation, is consistent with Entergy’s strong support for the environment.





205



Customers



As of December 31, 2012, the Utility operating companies provided retail electric and gas service to customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas, as follows:



Electric CustomersGas CustomersArea Served(In Thousands)(%)(In Thousands)(%)Entergy ArkansasPortions of Arkansas69625%Entergy Gulf StatesLouisianaPortions of Louisiana38714%9247%Entergy LouisianaPortions of Louisiana67324%Entergy MississippiPortions of Mississippi44016%Entergy New OrleansCity of New Orleans*1656%10253%Entergy TexasPortions of Texas41715%Total customers2,778100%194100%



*Excludes the Algiers area of the city, where Entergy Louisiana provides electric service.



Electric Energy Sales



The electric energy sales of the Utility operating companies are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with the peak sales period normally occurring during the third quarter of each year.  On July 30, 2012, Entergy reached a 2012 peak demand of 21,866 MWh, compared to the 2011 peak of 22,387 MWh recorded on August 3, 2011.  Selected electric energy sales data is shown in the table below:



Selected 2012 Electric Energy Sales Data



EntergyArkansasEntergyGulf StatesLouisianaEntergyLouisianaEntergyMississippiEntergyNew OrleansEntergyTexasSystemEnergyEntergy(a)(In GWh)Sales to retailcustomers21,08719,58131,71013,2735,00916,344-107,004Sales for resale:Affiliates7,9267,7272,1562329785,7026,606-Others1,093941652658827-3,200Total30,10628,24933,93113,7705,99522,8736,606110,204Average use perresidential customer(kWh)13,46015,60314,90315,05512,08115,353-14,565



(a)Includes the effect of intercompany eliminations.







206



The following table illustrates the Utility operating companies’ 2012 combined electric sales volume as a percentage of total electric sales volume, and 2012 combined electric revenues as a percentage of total 2012 electric revenue, each by customer class.



Customer Class% of Sales Volume% of RevenueResidential31.438.4Commercial26.127.6Industrial (a)37.425.9Governmental2.22.5Wholesale/Other2.95.6



(a)Major industrial customers are in the chemical, petroleum refining, and pulp and paper industries.



See “Selected Financial Data” for each of the Utility operating companies for the detail of their sales by customer class for 2008-2012.



Selected 2012 Natural Gas Sales Data



Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana provide both electric power and natural gas to retail customers.  Entergy New Orleans and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana sold 8,924,256 and 6,104,341 Mcf, respectively, of natural gas to retail customers in 2012.  In 2012, 97% of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business, and only 3% from the natural gas distribution business.  For Entergy New Orleans, 86% of operating revenue was derived from the electric utility business and 14% from the natural gas distribution business in 2012.  Following is data concerning Entergy New Orleans’s 2012 retail operating revenue sources.



Customer ClassElectric OperatingRevenueNatural GasRevenueResidential40%50%Commercial38%27%Industrial7%7%Governmental/Municipal15%16%



Retail Rate Regulation



General(Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)



Each Utility operating company regularly participates in retail rate proceedings.  The status of material retail rate proceedings is described in Note 2 to the financial statements.  Certain aspects of the Utility operating companies’ retail rate mechanisms are discussed below.



Entergy Arkansas



Fuel and Purchased Power Cost Recovery



Entergy Arkansas’s rate schedules include an energy cost recovery rider to recover fuel and purchased energy costs in monthly bills.  The rider utilizes prior calendar year energy costs and projected energy sales for the twelve-month period commencing on April 1 of each year to develop an energy cost rate, which is redetermined annually and includes a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery, including carrying charges, of the energy cost for the prior calendar year.  The energy cost recovery rider tariff also allows an interim rate request depending upon the level of over- or under-recovery of fuel and purchased energy costs.  In December 2007 the APSC issued an order stating that Entergy Arkansas’s energy cost recovery rider will remain in effect, and any future termination of the rider would be subject to eighteen months advance notice by the APSC, which would occur following notice and hearing.





207

Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings regarding recovery of Entergy Arkansas’s storm restoration costs.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s electric rates include a fuel adjustment clause designed to recover the cost of fuel and purchased power costs.  The fuel adjustment clause contains a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense and related carrying charges arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.



To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana hedges approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s gas rates include a purchased gas adjustment clause based on estimated gas costs for the billing month adjusted by a surcharge or credit that arises from an annual reconciliation of fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.



To help stabilize retail gas costs, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana received approval from the LPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility for its gas purchased for resale through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana hedges approximately one-half of the projected natural gas volumes used to serve its natural gas customers for November through March.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s filings to recover storm-related costs.



Entergy Louisiana



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Louisiana’s rate schedules include a fuel adjustment clause designed to recover the cost of fuel and purchased power costs.  The fuel adjustment clause contains a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense and related carrying charges arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.



In the Delaney vs. Entergy Louisiana proceeding, the LPSC ordered Entergy Louisiana, beginning with the May 2000 fuel adjustment clause filing, to re-price costs flowed through its fuel adjustment clause related to the Evangeline gas contract so that the price included for fuel adjustment clause recovery shall thereafter be at the rate of the Henry Hub first of the month cash market price (as reported by the publicationInside FERC) plus $0.24 per mmBtu for the month for which the fuel adjustment clause is calculated, irrespective of the actual cost for the Evangeline contract quantity reflected in that month’s fuel adjustment clause.  The Evangeline gas contract expired on January 1, 2013.



To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Louisiana received approval from the LPSC in 2001 to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Louisiana hedges approximately one-third of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.





208



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy Louisiana’s filings to recover storm-related costs.



Entergy Mississippi



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Mississippi’s rate schedules include energy cost recovery riders to recover fuel and purchased energy costs.  The rider previously utilized projected energy costs filed quarterly by Entergy Mississippi to develop an energy cost rate.  Beginning January 2013, Entergy Mississippi will make those filings annually.  The energy cost rate for each calendar year will be redetermined annually and will include a true-up adjustment reflecting the over-recovery or under-recovery of the energy costs as of the 12-month period ended September 30.  Entergy Mississippi’s fuel cost recoveries are subject to annual audits conducted pursuant to the authority of the MPSC.



Power Management Rider



The MPSC approved the purchase of the Attala power plant in November 2005.  In December 2005 the MPSC issued an order approving the investment cost recovery through Entergy Mississippi’s power management rider.  Entergy Mississippi is allowed to recover the annual ownership costs of the Attala plant through the power management rider until it files a general rate case.  The MPSC approved the purchase of the Hinds power plant in February 2012.  In August and October 2012, the MPSC issued orders approving the investment cost recovery through Entergy Mississippi’s power management rider.  The orders have the effect of allowing Entergy Mississippi to recover the annual ownership costs of the Hinds plant until it files a general rate case.  Entergy Mississippi acquired the Hinds plant on November 30, 2012.  Recovery of the Hinds plant costs through the power management rider commenced with January 2013 bills.



To help stabilize electricity costs, Entergy Mississippi received approval from the MPSC to hedge its exposure to natural gas price volatility through the use of financial instruments.  Entergy Mississippi hedges approximately one-half of the projected exposure to natural gas price changes for the gas used to serve its native electric load for all months of the year.  The hedge quantity is reviewed on an annual basis.



Storm Cost Recovery



Entergy Mississippi maintains a storm damage reserve pursuant to orders of the MPSC and consistent with regulatory accounting requirements.  Entergy Mississippi's storm damage provision is funded through its storm damage rider schedule.  In August 2011, Entergy Mississippi filed with the MPSC a notice of its intent to revise the storm damage rider schedule to recover over a 36-month period approximately $30 million and to increase the level of monthly accruals to the storm damage provision from $750,000 per month to $1.75 million per month, and to increase the level of the storm reserve cap during which funds will accrue from $15 million to $25 million.  The cap is the level of the storm damage provision balance at which monthly accruals would temporarily cease.  In two orders issued in July 2012, the MPSC temporarily increased Entergy Mississippi’s storm damage provision monthly accrual from $0.75 million to $2.0 million for bills rendered during the billing months of August 2012 through December 2012, and approved recovery of $14.9 million in prudently incurred storm costs to be amortized over five months, beginning with August 2012 bills.  Beginning with January 2013 bills, the monthly accrual to the storm damage provision reverted back to $750,000.  The MPSC has also ordered that Entergy Mississippi will annually submit its storm costs for audit.





209



Entergy New Orleans



Fuel Recovery



Entergy New Orleans’s electric rate schedules include a fuel adjustment tariff designed to reflect no more than targeted fuel and purchased power costs, adjusted by a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel expense arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel and purchased power costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including carrying charges.



Entergy New Orleans’s gas rate schedules include a purchased gas adjustment to reflect estimated gas costs for the billing month, adjusted by a surcharge or credit similar to that included in the electric fuel adjustment clause, including carrying charges.  In October 2005 the City Council approved modification of the current gas cost collection mechanism effective November 2005 in order to address concerns regarding its fluctuations, particularly during the winter heating season.  The modifications are intended to minimize fluctuations in gas rates during the winter months.



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of Entergy New Orleans’s efforts to recover storm-related costs.



Entergy Texas



Fuel Recovery



Entergy Texas’s rate schedules include a fixed fuel factor to recover fuel and purchased power costs, including interest, that are not included in base rates.  Semi-annual revisions of the fixed fuel factor are made in March and September based on the market price of natural gas and changes in fuel mix.  The amounts collected under Entergy Texas’s fixed fuel factor and any interim surcharge or refund are subject to fuel reconciliation proceedings before the PUCT.  The PUCT fuel cost reviews are discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements.



Storm Cost Recovery



See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of proceedings regarding recovery of Entergy Texas’s storm restoration costs.



Electric Industry Restructuring



In June 2009, a law was enacted in Texas that requires Entergy Texas to cease all activities relating to Entergy Texas’s transition to competition.  The law allows Entergy Texas to remain a part of the SERC Region, although it does not prevent Entergy Texas from joining another power region.  The law provides that proceedings to certify a power region that Entergy Texas belongs to as a qualified power region can be initiated by the PUCT, or on motion by another party, when the conditions supporting such a proceeding exist.  Under the new law, the PUCT may not approve a transition to competition plan for Entergy Texas until the expiration of four years from the PUCT’s certification of Entergy Texas’s power region.  In response to the new law, Entergy Texas in June 2009 gave notice to the PUCT of the withdrawal of its previously filed transition to competition plan, and requested that its transition to competition proceeding be dismissed.  In July 2009 the ALJ dismissed the proceeding.



The new law also contains provisions that allow Entergy Texas take advantage of a cost recovery mechanism that permits annual filings for the recovery of reasonable and necessary expenditures for transmission infrastructure improvement and changes in wholesale transmission charges.  This mechanism was previously available to other non-ERCOT Texas utility companies, but not to Entergy Texas.







210



In September 2011, the PUCT adopted a proposed rule implementing a Distribution Cost Recovery Factor to recover capital and capital-related costs related to distribution infrastructure.  The Distribution Cost Recovery Factor permits utilities once per year to implement an increase or decrease in rates above or below amounts reflected in base rates to reflect depreciation expense, federal income tax and other taxes, and return on investment.  The Distribution Cost Recovery Factor rider may be changed a maximum of four times between base rate cases, and expires in January 2017, unless otherwise extended by the Texas Legislature.



The new law further amends already existing law that had required Entergy Texas to propose for PUCT approval a tariff to allow eligible customers the ability to contract for competitive generation.  The amending language in the new law provides, among other things, that:  1) the tariff shall not be implemented in a manner that harms the sustainability or competitiveness of manufacturers who choose not to participate in the tariff; 2) Entergy Texas shall “purchase competitive generation service, selected by the customer, and provide the generation at retail to the customer”; and 3)  Entergy Texas shall provide and price transmission service and ancillary services under that tariff at a rate that is unbundled from its cost of service.    The new law directs that the PUCT may not issue an order on the tariff that is contrary to an applicable decision, rule, or policy statement of a federal regulatory agency having jurisdiction.



Entergy Texas and the other parties to the PUCT proceeding to determine the design of the competitive generation tariff were involved in negotiations throughout 2011 and 2012 with the objective of resolving as many disputed issues as possible regarding the tariff.  After a hearing in April 2012 to address certain issues unresolved among the parties, the PUCT rejected Entergy Texas’s contention that unrecovered costs included the embedded generation costs that Entergy Texas failed to recover when a customer migrated to competitive generation service.  The PUCT further determined that unrecovered costs consist only of those costs necessary to implement and administer the competitive generation program and do not include lost revenues or embedded generation costs.  The PUCT also ruled that the amount of customer load that may be included in the competitive generation service program is limited to 115 MW.  The remaining negotiations resulted in the narrowing of some additional issues but also resulted in filing testimony asking the PUCT to resolve certain remaining issues related to the design of the tariff.



Franchises



Entergy Arkansas holds exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 307 incorporated cities and towns in Arkansas.  These franchises are unlimited in duration and continue unless the municipalities purchase the utility property.  In Arkansas franchises are considered to be contracts and, therefore, are terminable pursuant to the terms of the franchise agreement and applicable statutes.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 56 incorporated municipalities and the unincorporated areas of approximately 18 parishes, and to provide gas service in the City of Baton Rouge and the unincorporated areas of two parishes.  Most of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s franchises have a term of 60 years.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s current electric franchises expire during 2015-2046.



Entergy Louisiana holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 116 incorporated Louisiana municipalities.  Most of these franchises have 25-year terms.  Entergy Louisiana also supplies electric service in approximately 45 Louisiana parishes in which it holds non-exclusive franchises.  Entergy Louisiana’s electric franchises expire during 2015-2036.



Entergy Mississippi has received from the MPSC certificates of public convenience and necessity to provide electric service to areas within 45 counties, including a number of municipalities, in western Mississippi.  Under Mississippi statutory law, such certificates are exclusive.  Entergy Mississippi may continue to serve in such municipalities upon payment of a statutory franchise fee, regardless of whether an original municipal franchise is still in existence.





211

Entergy New Orleans provides electric and gas service in the City of New Orleans pursuant to indeterminate permits set forth in city ordinances (except electric service in Algiers, which is provided by Entergy Louisiana).  These ordinances contain a continuing option for the City of New Orleans to purchase Entergy New Orleans’s electric and gas utility properties.



Entergy Texas holds a certificate of convenience and necessity from the PUCT to provide electric service to areas within approximately 27 counties in eastern Texas, and holds non-exclusive franchises to provide electric service in approximately 68 incorporated municipalities.  Entergy Texas was typically granted 50-year franchises, but recently has been receiving 25-year franchises.  Entergy Texas’s electric franchises expire during 2013-2058.



The business of System Energy is limited to wholesale power sales.  It has no distribution franchises.



Property and Other Generation Resources



Generating Stations



The total capability of the generating stations owned and leased by the Utility operating companies and System Energy as of December 31, 2012, is indicated below:



Owned and Leased Capability MW(1)CompanyTotalGas/OilNuclearCoalHydroEntergy Arkansas5,2742,1631,8281,20974Entergy Gulf States Louisiana3,2751,941975359-Entergy Louisiana5,4134,2541,159--Entergy Mississippi3,5023,082-420-Entergy New Orleans705705---Entergy Texas2,5352,269-266-System Energy1,287-1,287 (2)--Total21,99114,4145,2492,25474



(1)“Owned and Leased Capability” is the dependable load carrying capability as demonstrated under actual operating conditions based on the primary fuel (assuming no curtailments) that each station was designed to utilize.(2)Includes estimate, pending further testing, of the rerate for recovered performance (approximately 55 MW) and uprate (approximately 178 MW) completed in 2012.









212

margin.  This remaining need is expected to be met through the Grand Gulf Uprate, not reflected in the Summer 2012 rating, and limited-term resources.  The Entergy System will continue to access the spot power market to economically purchase energy in order to minimize customer cost; however, the Utility operating companies plan to join the MISO RTO beginning December 19, 2013 and upon integration expect to have access to the MISO Day 2 market.  In addition, Entergy considers in its planning processes the notices from Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi regarding their future withdrawal from the System Agreement.  Furthermore, as with other transmission systems, there are certain times during which congestion occurs on the Utility operating companies' transmission system that limits the ability of the Utility operating companies as well as other parties to fully utilize the generating resources that have been granted transmission service.



RFP Procurements



The RFPs issued by the Entergy System since the fall of 2002 have sought resources needed to meet near-term summer reliability requirements as well as longer-term requirements through a broad range of wholesale power products, including limited-term (1 to 3 years) and long-term contractual products and asset acquisitions.  Detailed evaluation processes have been developed to analyze submitted proposals, and, with the exception of the January 2008 RFP, the 2008 Western Region RFP, the 2010 Renewable RFP, and the 2011 Entergy Arkansas RFP, each RFP has been overseen by an independent monitor.  The following table illustrates the results of the RFP process for resources acquired since the Fall 2002 RFP.  The contracts below were primarily with non-affiliated suppliers, with the exception of contracts with EWO Marketing for the sale of 185 MW to 206 MW from the RS Cogen plant, contracts with Entergy Power for the sale of approximately 100 MW from the Independence plant, and an MSS-4 agreement between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi for the purchase of approximately 60 MW of Grand Gulf capacity and energy (with deliveries starting January 1, 2013).



RFPShort-term 3rdpartyLimited-termaffiliateLimited-term 3rdpartyLong-termaffiliateLong-term3rd partyTotalFall 2002-185-206 MW (a)231 MW101-121 MW (b)718 MW (d)1,235-1,276 MWJanuary 2003 supplemental222 MW----222 MWSpring 2003--381 MW(c)-381 MWFall 2003--390 MW--390 MWFall 2004--1,250 MW--1,250 MW2006 Long-Term---538 MW (e)789 MW (f)1,327 MWFall 2006--780 MW--780 MWJanuary 2008 (g)------2008 Western Region--300 MW--300 MWSummer 2008 (h)--200 MW--200 MWJanuary 2009 Western Region----150-300 MW150-300 MWJuly 2009 Baseload-336 MW (i)---336 MWSummer 2009 Long-Term (j)---551 MW1,555 MW2,106 MW2010 Renewable RFP (k)----28-37 MW (l)28-37 MW2011 Entergy Arkansas RFP--495 MW--495 MW2012 Baseload RFP (m)---60 MW-60 MW



(a)Includes a conditional option to increase the capacity up to the upper bound of the range.

(b)The contracted capacity increased from 101 MW to 121 MW in 2010.

(c)This table does not reflect (i) the River Bend 30% life-of-unit purchased power agreements totaling approximately 300 MW between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana (200 MW), and between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans (100 MW) related to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's unregulated portion of the River Bend nuclear station, which portion was formerly owned by Cajun or (ii) the Entergy Arkansas wholesale base load capacity life-of-unit purchased power agreements executed in 2003 totaling approximately 220 MW between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Louisiana (110 MW) and between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy New Orleans (110 MW) related to the sale of a portion of Entergy Arkansas’s coal and nuclear base load resources (which were not included in retail rates); or (iii) 12-month agreements originally executed in 2005 and which are renewed annually between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas, and between Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi, relating to the sale of a portion of Entergy Arkansas’s coal and nuclear base load resources (which were not included in retail rates) to those companies.  These resources were identified outside of the formal RFP process but were submitted as formal proposals in response to the Spring 2003 RFP, which confirmed the economic merits of these resources.





213

(d)Entergy Louisiana's June 2005 purchase of the 718 MW, gas-fired Perryville plant, of which a total of 75% of the output is sold to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas.

(e)In 2011, the LPSC approved Entergy Louisiana’s cancellation of the Little Gypsy Unit 3 re-powering project selected from the 2006 Long-Term RFP.

(f)Entergy Arkansas’s September 2008 purchase of the 789 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Ouachita Generating Facility, of which one-third of the output was sold to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana prior to the purchase of one-third of the facility by Entergy Gulf States Louisiana in November 2009.

(g)At the direction of the LPSC, but with full reservation of all legal rights, Entergy Services issued the January 2008 RFP for Supply-Side Resources seeking fixed price unit contingent products.  Although the LPSC request was directed to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Services issued the RFP on behalf of all of the Utility operating companies.  No proposals were selected from this RFP.

(h)In October 2008, in response to the U.S. financial crisis, Entergy Services on behalf of the Utility operating companies terminated all long-term procurement efforts, including the long-term portion of the Summer 2008 RFP.

(i)Represents the self-supply alternative considered in the RFP, consisting of a cost-based purchase by Entergy Texas, Entergy Louisiana, and Entergy Mississippi of wholesale baseload capacity from Entergy Arkansas.

(j)Includes the Ninemile self-build option, acquisitions from KGen of its Hinds and Hot Spring facilities, and a long-term PPA with Calpine Carville.

(k)Two additional transactions resulting from the 2010 Renewable RFP are still pending and are not reflected in the table.

(l)Includes a 28 MW purchase of baseload capacity and energy from a new electric generation waste heat recovery facility (Rain) located in Sulphur, Louisiana, with the potential for the purchase of nine additional megawatts from the facility subject to availability.  As of December 31, 2012, the Rain facility had not yet achieved commercial operation.

(m)Only includes the agreement resulting from the RFP for Entergy Mississippi to purchase capacity and energy from Entergy Arkansas from Grand Gulf (60 MW).



Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans currently purchase, pursuant to ten-year purchased power agreements that expire in 2013, 121 MW of capacity and energy from Entergy Power sourced from Independence Steam Electric Station Unit 2 (ISES 2).  The transaction, which originated from the Fall 2002 RFP, included an option for Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans to acquire an ownership interest in the unit for a total price of $80 million, subject to various adjustments.  In March 2008, Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans provided notice of their intent to exercise the option.  Based upon changes in the long-term economics of the resource relative to current options, in August 2011, Entergy Louisiana made a filing with the LPSC seeking relief from a prior LPSC directive to exercise the option to purchase an ownership interest in the Independence unit. On May 10, 2012, the LPSC issued an order rescinding the LPSC’s previous directive to Entergy Louisiana to exercise its option to purchase an ownership interest in ISES 2.  Because the City Council had not issued a comparable directive, Entergy New Orleans was not required to seek comparable relief from the City Council; however, Entergy New Orleans has indicated to the Council Advisors that it did not intend to proceed with acquiring an ownership interest in ISES 2 at the termination of the purchased power agreement.



In June 2011, Entergy Louisiana filed with the LPSC an application seeking certification that the public necessity and convenience would be served by Entergy Louisiana’s construction of a nominally-sized 550 MW combined-cycle gas turbine generating facility (Ninemile 6) at its existing Ninemile Point electric generating station that was selected in the Summer 2009 Long-Term RFP.  For additional discussion of the Ninemile 6 project see “Capital Expenditure Plans and Other Uses of Capital”in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.





214In December 2010, on behalf of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Services issued the 2010 RFP for Long-Term Renewable Energy Resources seeking up to 233 MW of renewable generation resources to meet the requirements of an LPSC general order issued in December 2010.  In September 2012, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana executed a 20-year contract for 28 MW, with the potential to purchase an additional nine megawatts when available, from Rain being constructed at the Rain pet coke calcining facility in Sulphur, Louisiana.  The facility is expected to begin commercial operations in early 2013.  LPSC certification of the contract was received on December 12, 2012.  As of December 31, 2012, Entergy Services was in negotiations to reach definitive agreement(s) associated with two other proposals selected in the RFP.



In June 2011, on behalf of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Services issued the 2011 RFP for Transition Plan Resources.  The RFP sought up to 750 MW of flexible generation resources through one or more purchased power agreements to address Entergy Arkansas’s requirements for its 2014-2016 time frame.  Entergy Arkansas concluded its review and evaluation of the proposals submitted in response to the RFP in November 2011 and selected two proposals totaling approximately 795 MW for negotiation of definitive agreements.  In October 2012,  Entergy Arkansas and Union Power Partners, L.P. executed a 3 ½ year agreement for 495 MW from the Union Power Station located in El Dorado, Arkansas, subject to regulatory approval.  The agreement is under review by the APSC and cost recovery for this purchased power agreement will be determined as part of Entergy Arkansas’s general rate case that will be filed in March 2013.



In December 2011, on behalf of Entergy Texas, Entergy Services issued the 2011 Western Region RFP for Long-Term Supply Side Resources.  This RFP sought approximately 300 MW of baseload or flexible capacity, energy, and other electric products to meet the long-term reliability needs of the Western Region beginning in 2017 and included a self-build option at Entergy Texas’s Lewis Creek site.  On November 2, 2012, Entergy Services announced that one proposal had been selected for award and the negotiation of a definitive agreement, and a secondary proposal had been placed on the secondary selection list.



In August 2012, Entergy Services issued a request for proposals for long-term, stable price, baseload resources on behalf of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and Entergy Mississippi.  The RFP sought between 50 and 150 MW of baseload capacity through a PPA commencing in 2013 for a minimum of 10 years up to life of unit.  As part of the RFP process, Entergy Services market-tested a self-supply alternative, which was a cost-based purchase of 60 MW from Entergy Arkansas’s share of Grand Gulf.  Based on the RFP evaluation results, in November 2012, Entergy elected to proceed with the self-supply alternative and elected not to move forward with any other proposal.  The capacity and associated energy was subsequently allocated to Entergy Mississippi, and MPSC and FERC approval was received for the transaction in December 2012.  Entergy Mississippi also transacted for an additional 30 MW purchase, which did not come through the RFP process, of capacity and energy from Entergy Arkansas’s share of Grand Gulf.  Deliveries under both agreements, totaling 90 MW, began on January 1, 2013, and cost recovery for the 90 MW was approved by the MPSC in January 2013.



Other Procurements From Third Parties



The above table does not include resource acquisitions made outside of the RFP process, including Entergy Mississippi's January 2006 acquisition of the 480 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Attala power plant; Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's March 2008 acquisition of the 322 MW, simple-cycle, gas-fired Calcasieu Generating Facility; and Entergy Louisiana’s April 2011 acquisition of the 580 MW, combined-cycle, gas-fired Acadia Energy Center Unit 2.  The above table also does not reflect various limited- and long-term contracts that have been entered into in recent years by the Utility operating companies as a result of bilateral negotiations.





215



Interconnections



The Entergy System's generating units are interconnected by a transmission system operating at various voltages up to 500 kV.  These generating units consist primarily of steam-electric production facilities and are centrally dispatched and operated.  Entergy's Utility operating companies are interconnected with many neighboring utilities.  In addition, the Utility operating companies are members of the SERC Reliability Corporation.  The primary purpose of SERC is to ensure the reliability and adequacy of the electric bulk power supply in the southeast region of the United States.  SERC is a member of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation.



Gas Property



As of December 31, 2012, Entergy New Orleans distributed and transported natural gas for distribution within Algiers and New Orleans, Louisiana, through approximately 2,500 miles of gas pipeline.  As of December 31, 2012, the gas properties of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, which are located in and around Baton Rouge, Louisiana, were not material to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's financial position.



Title



The Entergy System's generating stations are generally located on properties owned in fee simple.  Most of the substations and transmission and distribution lines are constructed on private property or public rights-of-way pursuant to easements, servitudes, or appropriate franchises.  Some substation properties are owned in fee simple.  The Utility operating companies generally have the right of eminent domain, whereby they may perfect title to, or secure easements or servitudes on, private property for their utility operations.



Substantially all of the physical properties and assets owned by Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy are subject to the liens of mortgages securing bonds issued by those companies.  The Lewis Creek generating station is owned by GSG&T, Inc., a subsidiary of Entergy Texas, and is not subject to its mortgage lien.  Lewis Creek is leased to and operated by Entergy Texas.



Fuel Supply



The sources of generation and average fuel cost per kWh for the Utility operating companies and System Energy for the years 2010-2012 were:



Natural GasNuclearCoalPurchasedPowerYear%ofGenCentsPerkWh%ofGenCentsPerkWh%ofGenCentsPerkWh%ofGenCentsPerkWh2012273.1533.85112.60293.582011254.8534.81132.31284.592010225.3936.78132.00295.28





216



Actual 2012 and projected 2013 sources of generation for the Utility operating companies and System Energy, including certain power purchases from affiliates under life of unit power purchase agreements, including the Unit Power Sales Agreement, are:



Natural GasNuclearCoalPurchasedPower20122013201220132012201320122013Entergy Arkansas (a)6%9%56%56%23%21%15%13%Entergy Gulf States Louisiana32%36%29%15%8%10%31%39%Entergy Louisiana33%26%32%44%2%1%33%29%Entergy Mississippi43%44%17%25%19%18%21%13%Entergy New Orleans38%30%40%54%9%6%13%10%Entergy Texas31%20%12%15%7%10%50%55%System Energy (b)--100%100%----Utility (a)27%25%33%35%11%11%29%29%



(a)Hydroelectric power provided less than 1% of Entergy Arkansas’s generation in 2012 and is expected to provide less than 1% of its generation in 2013.(b)Capacity and energy from System Energy’s interest in Grand Gulf is allocated as follows under the Unit Power Sales Agreement: Entergy Arkansas - 36%; Entergy Louisiana - 14%; Entergy Mississippi - 33%; and Entergy New Orleans - 17%.  Pursuant to purchased power agreements, Entergy Arkansas is selling a portion of its owned capacity and energy from Grand Gulf to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans.



Some of the Utility’s gas-fired plants are capable of also using fuel oil, if necessary.  Although based on current economics the Utility does not expect fuel oil use in 2013, it is possible that various operational events including weather or pipeline maintenance may require the use of fuel oil.



Natural Gas



The Utility operating companies have long-term firm and short-term interruptible gas contracts for both supply and transportation.  Long-term firm contracts for power plants comprise less than 25% of the Utility operating companies' total requirements.  Short-term contracts and spot-market purchases satisfy additional gas requirements.  Entergy Texas owns a gas storage facility that provides reliable and flexible natural gas service to certain generating stations.



Entergy Louisiana entered into a long-term natural gas supply contract beginning January 1, 2013, in which Entergy Louisiana purchases natural gas in annual amounts equal to approximately one-third of its projected annual fuel requirements for certain generating units.



Many factors, including wellhead deliverability, storage and pipeline capacity, and demand requirements of end users, influence the availability and price of natural gas supplies for power plants.  Demand is tied to weather conditions as well as to the prices and availability of other energy sources.  Pursuant to federal and state regulations, gas supplies to power plants may be interrupted during periods of shortage.  To the extent natural gas supplies are disrupted or natural gas prices significantly increase, the Utility operating companies will use alternate fuels, such as oil, or rely to a larger extent on coal, nuclear generation, and purchased power.



Coal



Entergy Arkansas has committed to four one- to three-year contracts that will supply approximately 90% of the total coal supply needs in 2013.  These contracts are staggered in term so that not all contracts have to be renewed the same year.  The remaining 10% of total coal requirements will be satisfied by contracts with a term of less than one year.  Based on continued improved Powder River Basin (PRB) coal deliveries by rail and the high cost of alternate sources and modes of transportation, no alternative coal consumption is expected at Entergy Arkansas during 2013.  Entergy Arkansas has an existing railroad transportation contract that is expected to provide all of Entergy Arkansas’s coal transportation requirements for 2013.



217

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana has executed three one- to three-year contracts that will supply approximately 90% of Nelson Unit 6 coal needs in 2013.  Additional PRB coal will be purchased through contracts with a term of less than one year to provide the remaining supply needs.  For the same reasons as for Entergy Arkansas’s plants, no alternative coal consumption is expected at Nelson Unit 6 during 2013.  Coal will be transported to Nelson via an existing transportation agreement that is expected to provide all of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s rail transportation requirements for 2013.



For the year 2012, coal transportation delivery to Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana operated coal-fired units met coal demand at the plants and it is expected that delivery times experienced in 2012 will continue through 2013.  Both Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana control a sufficient number of railcars to satisfy the rail transportation requirement.



The operator of Big Cajun 2 - Unit 3, Louisiana Generating, LLC, has advised Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas that it has adequate rail car and barge capacity to meet the volumes of PRB coal requested for 2013.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s and Entergy Texas’s coal nomination requests to Big Cajun 2 - Unit 3 are made on an annual basis.



Nuclear Fuel



The nuclear fuel cycle consists of the following:



·mining and milling of uranium ore to produce a concentrate;

·conversion of the concentrate to uranium hexafluoride gas;

·enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride gas;

·fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies for use in fueling nuclear reactors; and

·disposal of spent fuel.



The Registrant Subsidiaries that own nuclear plants (Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy), are responsible through a shared regulated uranium pool for contracts to acquire nuclear material to be used in fueling Entergy's Utility nuclear units.  These companies own the materials and services in this shared regulated uranium pool on a pro rata fractional basis determined by the nuclear generation capability of each company.  Any liabilities for obligations of the pooled contracts are on a several but not joint basis.  The shared regulated uranium pool maintains inventories of nuclear materials during the various stages of processing.  The Registrant Subsidiaries purchase enriched uranium hexafluoride for their nuclear plant reload requirements at the average inventory cost from the shared regulated uranium pool.  Entergy Operations Inc. contracts separately for the fabrication of nuclear fuel as agent on behalf of each of the Registrant Subsidiaries that owns a nuclear plant.  All contracts for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel are between the Department of Energy (DOE) and the owner of a nuclear power plant.



Based upon currently planned fuel cycles, the nuclear units in both the Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities segments have a diversified portfolio of contracts and inventory that provides substantially adequate nuclear fuel materials and conversion and enrichment services at what Entergy believes are reasonably predictable or fixed prices through most of 2013.  Entergy’s ability to purchase nuclear fuel at reasonably predictable prices, however, depends upon the performance reliability of uranium miners.  There are a number of possible alternate suppliers that may be accessed to mitigate any supplier performance failure, including potentially drawing upon Entergy’s inventory intended for later generation periods depending upon its risk management strategy at that time, although the pricing of any alternate uranium supply from the market will be dependent upon the market for uranium supply at that time.  In addition, some nuclear fuel contracts are on a non-fixed price basis subject to prevailing prices at the time of delivery.







218



The effects of market price changes may be reduced and deferred by risk management strategies, such as negotiation of floor and ceiling amounts for long-term contracts, buying for inventory or entering into forward physical contracts at fixed prices when Entergy believes it is appropriate and useful.  Entergy buys uranium from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of countries, and from time to time purchases from nearly all qualified reliable major market participants worldwide that sell into the U.S.



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy each have made arrangements to lease nuclear fuel and related equipment and services.  The lessors, which are consolidated in the financial statements of Entergy and the applicable Registrant Subsidiary, finance the acquisition and ownership of nuclear fuel through credit agreements and the issuance of notes.  These arrangements are subject to periodic renewal.



Natural Gas Purchased for Resale



Entergy New Orleans has several suppliers of natural gas.  Its system is interconnected with three interstate and three intrastate pipelines.  Entergy New Orleans has a "no-notice" service gas purchase contract with Atmos Energy which guarantees Entergy New Orleans gas delivery at specific delivery points and at any volume within the minimum and maximum set forth in the contract amounts.  The Atmos Energy gas supply is transported to Entergy New Orleans pursuant to a transportation service agreement with Gulf South Pipeline Co.  This service is subject to FERC-approved rates.  Entergy New Orleans also makes interruptible spot market purchases.  In recent years, natural gas deliveries to Entergy New Orleans have been subject primarily to weather-related curtailments.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana purchases natural gas for resale under a firm contract from Enbridge Marketing (U.S.) Inc.  The gas is delivered through a combination of intrastate and interstate pipelines.



As a result of the implementation of FERC-mandated interstate pipeline restructuring in 1993, curtailments of interstate gas supply could occur if Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s or Entergy New Orleans's suppliers failed to perform their obligations to deliver gas under their supply agreements.  Gulf South Pipeline Co. could curtail transportation capacity only in the event of pipeline system constraints.



Federal Regulation of the Utility



State or local regulatory authorities, as described above, regulate the retail rates of the Utility operating companies.  The FERC regulates wholesale rates (including intrasystem sales pursuant to the System Agreement) and interstate transmission of electricity, as well as rates for System Energy’s sales of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.



System Agreement(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)









219

Citing its concerns that the benefits of its continued participation in the current form of the System Agreement have been seriously eroded, in December 2005, Entergy Arkansas submitted its notice that it will terminate its participation in the current System Agreement effective ninety-six (96) months from the date of the notice or such earlier date as authorized by the FERC.  In November 2007, pursuant to the provisions of the System Agreement, Entergy Mississippi provided its written notice to terminate its participation in the System Agreement effective ninety-six (96) months from the date of the notice or such earlier date as authorized by the FERC.  In light of the notices of Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi to terminate participation in the current System Agreement, in January 2008 the LPSC unanimously voted to direct the LPSC Staff to begin evaluating the potential for a new agreement.  Likewise, the New Orleans City Council opened a docket to gather information on progress towards a successor agreement.



In November 2009 the FERC accepted the notices of cancellation and determined that Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi are permitted to withdraw from the System Agreement following the 96-month notice period without payment of a fee or the requirement to otherwise compensate the remaining Utility operating companies as a result of withdrawal.  In February 2011 the FERC denied the LPSC’s and the City Council’s rehearing requests.  The LPSC and City Council appealed the FERC’s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.  The D.C. Circuit denied the appeal and in September 2012 the LPSC filed a petition for rehearing and rehearing en banc with the D.C. Circuit.  In October 2012 the D.C. Circuit denied the LPSC’s request for rehearing and rehearing en banc.  In January 2013 the LPSC filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court.



See “System Agreement” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the proceedings at the FERC involving the System Agreement and other related proceedings.



Transmission



See the “Plan to Spin Off the Utility’s Transmission Business” section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.



See “Independent Coordinator of Transmission” in the “Rate, Cost-recovery, and Other Regulation” section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis.



System Energy and Related Agreements



System Energy recovers costs related to its interest in Grand Gulf through rates charged to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans for capacity and energy under the Unit Power Sales Agreement (described below).  In December 1995, System Energy commenced a rate proceeding at the FERC.  In July 2001 the rate proceeding became final, with the FERC approving a prospective 10.94% return on equity.  The FERC’s decision also affected other aspects of System Energy’s charges to the Utility operating companies that it supplies with power.  In 1998 the FERC approved requests by Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Mississippi to accelerate a portion of their Grand Gulf purchased power obligations.  Entergy Arkansas’s and Entergy Mississippi’s acceleration of Grand Gulf purchased power obligations ceased effective July 2001 and July 2003, respectively, as approved by the FERC.



Unit Power Sales Agreement



The Unit Power Sales Agreement allocates capacity, energy, and the related costs from System Energy’s ownership and leasehold interests in Grand Gulf to Entergy Arkansas (36%), Entergy Louisiana (14%), Entergy Mississippi (33%), and Entergy New Orleans (17%).  Each of these companies is obligated to make payments to System Energy for its entitlement of capacity and energy on a full cost-of-service basis regardless of the quantity of energy delivered.  Payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are System Energy’s only source of operating revenue.  The financial condition of System Energy depends upon the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf and the receipt of such payments.  Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans generally recover payments made under the Unit Power Sales Agreement through rates charged to their customers.



220





Availability Agreement



The Availability Agreement among System Energy and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans was entered into in 1974 in connection with the financing by System Energy of Grand Gulf. The Availability Agreement provides that System Energy make available to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans all capacity and energy available from System Energy’s share of Grand Gulf.



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans also agreed severally to pay System Energy monthly for the right to receive capacity and energy from Grand Gulf in amounts that (when added to any amounts received by System Energy under the Unit Power Sales Agreement) would at least equal System Energy’s total operating expenses for Grand Gulf (including depreciation at a specified rate and expenses incurred in a permanent shutdown of Grand Gulf) and interest charges. The September 1989 write-off of System Energy’s investment in Grand Gulf 2, amounting to approximately $900 million, is being amortized for Availability Agreement purposes over 27 years.



The allocation percentages under the Availability Agreement are fixed as follows: Entergy Arkansas - 17.1%; Entergy Louisiana - 26.9%; Entergy Mississippi - 31.3%; and Entergy New Orleans - 24.7%. The allocation percentages under the Availability Agreement would remain in effect and would govern payments made under such agreement in the event of a shortfall of funds available to System Energy from other sources, including payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement.



System Energy has assigned its rights to payments and advances from Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans under the Availability Agreement as security for its first mortgage bonds and reimbursement obligations to certain banks providing letters of credit in connection with the equity funding of the sale and leaseback transactions described in Note 10 to the financial statements under “Sale and Leaseback Transactions- Grand Gulf Lease Obligations.”  In these assignments, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans further agreed that, in the event they were prohibited by governmental action from making payments under the Availability Agreement (for example, if the FERC reduced or disallowed such payments as constituting excessive rates), they would then make subordinated advances to System Energy in the same amounts and at the same times as the prohibited payments. System Energy would not be allowed to repay these subordinated advances so long as it remained in default under the related indebtedness or in other similar circumstances.







221



Each of the assignment agreements relating to the Availability Agreement provides that Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans will make payments directly to System Energy. However, if there is an event of default, those payments must be made directly to the holders of indebtedness that are the beneficiaries of such assignment agreements. The payments must be made pro rata according to the amount of the respective obligations secured.



The obligations of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans to make payments under the Availability Agreement are subject to the receipt and continued effectiveness of all necessary regulatory approvals.  Sales of capacity and energy under the Availability Agreement would require that the Availability Agreement be submitted to the FERC for approval with respect to the terms of such sale. No such filing with the FERC has been made because sales of capacity and energy from Grand Gulf are being made pursuant to the Unit Power Sales Agreement.  If, for any reason, sales of capacity and energy are made in the future pursuant to the Availability Agreement, the jurisdictional portions of the Availability Agreement would be submitted to the FERC for approval.



Since commercial operation of Grand Gulf began, payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement to System Energy have exceeded the amounts payable under the Availability Agreement. Therefore, no payments under the Availability Agreement have ever been required.  If Entergy Arkansas or Entergy Mississippi fails to make its Unit Power Sales Agreement payments, and System Energy is unable to obtain funds from other sources, Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans could become subject to claims or demands by System Energy or its creditors for payments or advances under the Availability Agreement (or the assignments thereof) equal to the difference between their required Unit Power Sales Agreement payments and their required Availability Agreement payments because their Availability Agreement obligations exceed their Unit Power Sales Agreement obligations.



The Availability Agreement may be terminated, amended, or modified by mutual agreement of the parties thereto, without further consent of any assignees or other creditors.



Capital Funds Agreement



System Energy and Entergy Corporation have entered into the Capital Funds Agreement, whereby Entergy Corporation has agreed to supply System Energy with sufficient capital to (i) maintain System Energy’s equity capital at an amount equal to a minimum of 35% of its total capitalization (excluding short-term debt) and (ii) permit the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf and pay in full all indebtedness for borrowed money of System Energy when due.



Entergy Corporation has entered into various supplements to the Capital Funds Agreement. System Energy has assigned its rights under such supplements as security for its first mortgage bonds and for reimbursement obligations to certain banks providing letters of credit in connection with the equity funding of the sale and leaseback transactions described in Note 10 to the financial statements under “Sale and Leaseback Transactions- Grand Gulf Lease Obligations.”  Each such supplement provides that permitted indebtedness for borrowed money incurred by System Energy in connection with the financing of Grand Gulf may be secured by System Energy’s rights under the Capital Funds Agreement on a pro rata basis (except for the Specific Payments, as defined below). In addition, in the supplements to the Capital Funds Agreement relating to the specific indebtedness being secured, Entergy Corporation has agreed to make cash capital contributions directly to System Energy sufficient to enable System Energy to make payments when due on such indebtedness (Specific Payments). However, if there is an event of default, Entergy Corporation must make those payments directly to the holders of indebtedness benefiting from the supplemental agreements. The payments (other than the Specific Payments) must be made pro rata according to the amount of the respective obligations benefiting from the supplemental agreements.



The Capital Funds Agreement may be terminated, amended, or modified by mutual agreement of the parties thereto, upon obtaining the consent, if required, of those holders of System Energy’s indebtedness then outstanding who have received the assignments of the Capital Funds Agreement.





222



Service Companies



Entergy Services, a corporation wholly-owned by Entergy Corporation, provides management, administrative, accounting, legal, engineering, and other services primarily to the Utility operating companies. Entergy Operations is also wholly-owned by Entergy Corporation and provides nuclear management, operations and maintenance services under contract for ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, subject to the owner oversight of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, respectively.  Entergy Services and Entergy Operations provide their services to the Utility operating companies and System Energy on an “at cost” basis, pursuant to cost allocation methodologies for these service agreements that were approved by the FERC.



Jurisdictional Separation of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas



Effective December 31, 2007, Entergy Gulf States, Inc. completed a jurisdictional separation into two vertically integrated utility companies, one operating under the sole retail jurisdiction of the PUCT, Entergy Texas, and the other operating under the sole retail jurisdiction of the LPSC, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  Entergy Texas now owns all Entergy Gulf States, Inc. distribution and transmission assets located in Texas, the gas-fired generating plants located in Texas, undivided 42.5% ownership shares of Entergy Gulf States, Inc.’s 70% ownership interest in Nelson 6 and 42% ownership interest in Big Cajun 2, Unit 3, which are coal-fired generating plants located in Louisiana, and other assets and contract rights to the extent related to utility operations in Texas.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana now owns all of the remaining assets that were owned by Entergy Gulf States, Inc.  On a book value basis, approximately 58.1% of the Entergy Gulf States, Inc. assets were allocated to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and approximately 41.9% were allocated to Entergy Texas.



Entergy Texas purchases from Entergy Gulf States Louisiana pursuant to a life-of-unit purchased power agreement (PPA) a 42.5% share of capacity and energy from the 70% of River Bend subject to retail regulation.  Entergy Texas was allocated a share of River Bend’s nuclear and environmental liabilities that is identical to the share of the plant’s output purchased by Entergy Texas under the PPA.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana purchases a 57.5% share of capacity and energy from the gas-fired generating plants owned by Entergy Texas, and Entergy Texas purchases a 42.5% share of capacity and energy from the gas-fired generating plants owned by Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  The PPAs associated with the gas-fired generating plants will terminate when the unit(s) is/are removed from Entergy System dispatch.  The dispatch and operation of the generating plants did not change as a result of the jurisdictional separation.  The LPSC staff has asserted that the PPAs would terminate if Entergy Texas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana join MISO.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana filed testimony opposing that position.  The LPSC has stayed consideration of this issue until December 31, 2013.



Earnings Ratios of Registrant Subsidiaries



The Registrant Subsidiaries’ ratios of earnings to fixed charges and ratios of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred dividends or distributions pursuant to Item 503 of SEC Regulation S-K are as follows:



Ratios of Earnings to Fixed ChargesYears Ended December 31,20122011201020092008Entergy Arkansas3.794.313.912.392.33Entergy Gulf States Louisiana3.484.363.582.992.44Entergy Louisiana2.081.863.413.523.14Entergy Mississippi2.793.553.353.312.92Entergy New Orleans3.025.374.433.613.71Entergy Texas1.762.342.101.922.04System Energy5.123.853.643.733.29





223







Ratios of Earnings to Combined FixedCharges and Preferred Dividends or DistributionsYears Ended December 31,20122011201020092008Entergy Arkansas3.363.833.602.091.95Entergy Gulf States Louisiana3.434.303.542.952.42Entergy Louisiana1.931.703.193.272.87Entergy Mississippi2.593.273.163.062.67Entergy New Orleans2.674.744.083.333.45



The Registrant Subsidiaries accrue interest expense related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense and do not include it in fixed charges.



Entergy Wholesale Commodities



During 2010 Entergy integrated its non-utility nuclear and its non-nuclear wholesale assets businesses into a new organization called Entergy Wholesale Commodities.



Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership and operation of six nuclear power plants, five of which are located in the Northeast United States, with the sixth located in Michigan, and is primarily focused on selling electric power produced by those plants to wholesale customers.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ revenues are primarily derived from sales of energy and generation capacity from these plants.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities also provides operations and management services, including decommissioning services, to nuclear power plants owned by other utilities in the United States.



Entergy Wholesale Commodities also includes the ownership of, or participation in joint ventures that own, non-nuclear power plants and the sale to wholesale customers of the electric power produced by these plants.



Property



Nuclear Generating Stations



Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership of the following nuclear power plants:



Power PlantMarketInServiceYearAcquiredLocationCapacity-Reactor TypeLicenseExpirationDatePilgrimIS0-NE1972July 1999Plymouth, MA688 MW - Boiling Water2032FitzPatrickNYISO1975Nov. 2000Oswego, NY838 MW - Boiling Water2034Indian Point 3NYISO1976Nov. 2000Buchanan, NY1,041 MW - Pressurized Water2015Indian Point 2NYISO1974Sept. 2001Buchanan, NY1,028 MW - Pressurized Water2013Vermont YankeeIS0-NE1972July 2002Vernon, VT605 MW - Boiling Water2032PalisadesMISO1971Apr. 2007Covert, MI811 MW - Pressurized Water2031



Entergy Wholesale Commodities also includes the ownership of two non-operating nuclear facilities, Big Rock Point in Michigan and Indian Point 1 in New York that were acquired when Entergy purchased the Palisades and Indian Point 2 nuclear plants, respectively.  These facilities are in various stages of the decommissioning process.



In March 2011 and May 2012 the NRC renewed the operating licenses of Vermont Yankee and Pilgrim, respectively, for an additional 20 years, as a result of which each license now expires in 2032.  For additional discussion regarding the continued operation of the Vermont Yankee plant, see “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” in Note 1 to the financial statements.  In the Vermont Yankee license renewal case, the Vermont Department of Public Service and the New England Coalition appealed the NRC’s renewal of Vermont Yankee’s license to the D.C. Circuit.  In June 2012 the D.C. Circuit denied that appeal.  The time for seeking further judicial review of the NRC’s issuance of Vermont Yankee’s renewed operating license has expired.  In the Pilgrim license renewal





224

case, three contentions remained pending before the ASLB at the time the license was issued.  Two of those contentions were subsequently denied by the ASLB and not appealed within the applicable time.  A third remaining contention (alleging failure of the Pilgrim Environmental Impact Statement to address adequately an endangered species) was denied by the ASLB and then appealed to the NRC, which denied the appeal on December 6, 2012.  No appeal of the NRC’s decision was filed within the time allowed for such appeals.  The NRC has indicated that should the appeal of a contention result in voiding of the renewed license, Pilgrim could operate under the “timely renewal” doctrine in reliance on the prior, and now superseded, license until proceedings concerning the renewed license are final.  Massachusetts appealed the NRC’s renewal of Pilgrim’s license to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.  Entergy intervened in that appeal.  Briefing was completed and oral argument was held December 5, 2012.  On February 25, 2013, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit denied Massachusetts’s appeal.





Pursuant to ASLB scheduling orders in the Indian Point 2 and 3 license renewal proceeding, hearings on the nine contentions remaining in “Track 1” were held over 12 days in October, November, and December 2012.  Testimony on the four contentions currently in “Track 2” has not been completed.  Track 2 hearings have not been scheduled.



The NRC staff is also continuing to perform its technical and environmental reviews of the Indian Point 2 and 3 license renewal application.  The NRC staff issued a Final Safety Evaluation Report (FSER) in August 2009, a supplement to the FSER in August 2011, a FSEIS in December 2010 and a supplement to the FSEIS in June 2012.  The NRC staff issued a draft supplemental FSEIS in June 2012 and has stated its intent to issue, following an opportunity for comment, another supplement to the FSEIS by April 30, 2013.  In addition, the NRC staff has stated its intent to issue a further supplement to the FSER by July 31, 2013.  These reports are expected to affect testimony yet to be filed on Track 2 contentions.



The hearing process is an integral component of the NRC’s regulatory framework, and evidentiary hearings on license renewal applications are not uncommon.  Entergy is participating fully in the hearing process as permitted by the NRC’s hearing rules.  As noted in Entergy’s responses to the various intervenor filings, Entergy believes the contentions proposed by the intervenors are unsupported and without merit.  Entergy will continue to work with the NRC staff as it completes its technical and environmental reviews of the Indian Point 2 and 3 license renewal applications.



The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation has taken the position that Indian Point must obtain a new state-issued Clean Water Act Section 401 water quality certification as part of the license renewal process.  For additional discussion of the Indian Point Clean Water Act Section 401 water quality certification see “Environmental Regulation -Clean Water Act,” below.  In addition, the consistency of Indian Point’s operations with New York State’s coastal management policies must be resolved to the extent required by the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA).  On July 24, 2012, Entergy filed a supplement to the Indian Point license renewal application currently pending before the NRC.  The supplement states that, based on applicable federal law and in light of prior reviews by the State of New York, the NRC may issue the requested renewed operating licenses for Indian Point without the need for an additional consistency review by the State of New York under the CZMA.  On July 30, 2012,



225

Entergy filed a motion for declaratory order with the ASLB seeking confirmation of its position that no further CZMA consistency determination is required before the NRC may issue renewed licenses.  Responses to Entergy’s motion for declaratory order are due March 22, 2013.  In addition, Entergy filed with the New York State Department of State (NYSDOS) on November 7, 2012 a petition for declaratory order that Indian Point is grandfathered under either of two criteria prescribed by the New York Coastal Management Program (NYCMP), which sets forth the state coastal policies applied in a CZMA consistency review.   The NYSDOS denied the motion by order dated January 9, 2013.  An appeal may be taken to state court within four months.  Finally, on December 17, 2012, Entergy filed with NYSDOS a consistency determination explaining why Indian Point satisfies all applicable NYCMP policies.   Entergy included in the consistency determination a “reservation of rights” clarifying that Entergy does not concede NYSDOS’s right to conduct a new CZMA review for Indian Point.  On January 16, 2013, NYSDOS notified Entergy that it deemed the consistency determination incomplete because it does not include the further supplement to the FSEIS that, as indicated above, is targeted for issuance by April 30, 2013.  The six-month federal deadline for state decision on a consistency determination does not begin to run until the submission is complete.



Non-nuclear Generating Stations



Entergy Wholesale Commodities includes the ownership, or interests in joint ventures that own, the following non-nuclear power plants:



PlantLocationOwnershipNet OwnedCapacity(1)TypeRhode Island State Energy Center; 583 MWJohnston, RI100%583 MWGasRitchie Unit 2;   544 MWHelena, AR100%544 MWGas/OilIndependence Unit 2;   842 MWNewark, AR14%121 MW(2)CoalTop of Iowa;   80 MW (3)Worth County, IA50%40 MWWindWhite Deer;   80 MW (3)Amarillo, TX50%40 MWWindRS Cogen;   425 MW (3)Lake Charles, LA50%213 MWGas/SteamNelson 6;   550 MWWestlake, LA11%60 MW(2)Coal



(1)“Net Owned Capacity” refers to the nameplate rating on the generating unit.(2)The owned MW capacity is the portion of the plant capacity owned by Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  For a complete listing of Entergy’s jointly-owned generating stations, refer to “Jointly-Owned Generating Stations” in Note 1 to the financial statements.(3)Indirectly owned through interests in unconsolidated joint ventures.



In the fourth quarter 2010, Entergy sold its 61 percent share of the Harrison County 550 MW combined cycle gas-fired power plant.



Independent System Operators



The Pilgrim and Vermont Yankee and Rhode Island plants fall under the authority of the Independent System Operator (ISO) New England and the FitzPatrick and Indian Point plants fall under the authority of the New York Independent System Operator (NYISO).  The Palisades plant falls under the authority of the MISO.  The primary purpose of ISO New England, NYISO, and MISO is to direct the operations of the major generation and transmission facilities in their respective regions; ensure grid reliability; administer and monitor wholesale electricity markets; and plan for their respective region’s energy needs.





226



Energy and Capacity Sales



As a wholesale generator, Entergy Wholesale Commodities core business is selling energy, measured in MWh, to its customers.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities enters into forward contracts with its customers and sells energy in the day ahead or spot markets.  In addition to selling the energy produced by its plants, Entergy Wholesale Commodities sells unforced capacity, which allows load-serving entities to meet specified reserve and related requirements placed on them by the ISOs in their respective areas.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ forward fixed price power contracts consist of contracts to sell energy only, contracts to sell capacity only, and bundled contracts in which it sells both capacity and energy.  While the terminology and payment mechanics vary in these contracts, each of these types of contracts requires Entergy Wholesale Commodities to deliver MWh of energy, make capacity available, or both.  See “Market and Credit Risk Sensitive Instruments” in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for additional information regarding these contracts.



In addition to the contracts discussed in “Market and Credit Risk Sensitive Instruments,” Entergy’s purchase of the Vermont Yankee plant included a value sharing agreement providing for payments to the seller in the event that the plant operates beyond March 2012 pursuant to a renewed NRC operating license.  Under the value sharing agreement, to the extent that the average annual price of the energy sales from the plant exceeds the specified strike price, initially $61/MWh and then adjusted annually based on three indices, Vermont Yankee will pay 50% of the amount exceeding the strike prices to the seller.  These payments, if required, will be recorded as adjustments to the purchase price of the plants.  The value sharing would begin in 2012 and extend into 2022.



As part of the purchase of the Palisades plant, Entergy executed a 15-year PPA with the seller, Consumers Energy, for 100% of the plant’s output, excluding any future uprates.  Under the purchased power agreement, Consumers Energy will receive the value of any new environmental credits for the first ten years of the agreement.  Palisades and Consumers Energy will share on a 50/50 basis the value of any new environmental credits for years 11 through 15 of the agreement.  The environmental credits are defined as benefits from a change in law that causes capability of the plant as of the purchase date to become a tradable attribute (e.g., emission credit, renewable energy credit, environmental credit, “green” credit, etc.) or otherwise to have a market value.



Customers



Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ customers for the sale of both energy and capacity from its nuclear plants include retail power providers, utilities, electric power co-operatives, power trading organizations and other power generation companies.  These customers include Consolidated Edison, NYPA, and Consumers Energy, companies from which Entergy purchased plants, and ISO New England, NYISO, and MISO.  Substantially all of the counterparties or their guarantors for the planned energy output under contract for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants have public investment grade credit ratings or are load-serving entities without public credit ratings.



Competition







227Seasonality



Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ revenues and operating income are subject to fluctuations during the year due to seasonal factors, weather conditions, and contract pricing.  Refueling outages are generally scheduled for the spring and the fall, and cause volumetric decreases during those seasons.  When outdoor and cooling water temperatures are lower, generally during colder months, Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ nuclear power plants operate more efficiently, and consequently, generate more electricity.  Many of Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ contracts provide for shaped pricing over the course of the year.  As a result of these factors, Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ revenues are typically higher in the first and third quarters than in the second and fourth quarters.



Fuel Supply



Nuclear Fuel



See “Fuel Supply,Nuclear Fuel” in the Utility portion of Part I, Item 1 for a discussion of the nuclear fuel cycle and markets.  Entergy Nuclear Fuels Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary, is responsible for contracts to acquire nuclear materials, except for fuel fabrication, for Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ nuclear power plants, while Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc. acts as the agent for the purchase of nuclear fuel assembly fabrication services.  All contracts for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel are between the DOE and each of the nuclear power plants.



Other Business Activities



Entergy Nuclear Power Marketing, LLC (ENPM) was formed in 2005 to centralize the power marketing function for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants.  Upon its formation, ENPM entered into long-term power purchase agreements with the Entergy Wholesale Commodities subsidiaries that own nuclear power plants (generating subsidiaries).  As part of a series of agreements, ENPM agreed to assume and/or otherwise service the existing power purchase agreements that were in effect between the generating subsidiaries and their customers.  ENPM functions include origination of new energy and capacity transactions, generation scheduling, contract management (including billing and settlements), and market and credit risk mitigation.



Entergy Nuclear, Inc. pursues service agreements with other nuclear power plant owners who seek the advantages of Entergy’s scale and expertise but do not necessarily want to sell their assets.  Services provided by either Entergy Nuclear, Inc. or other Entergy Wholesale Commodities subsidiaries include engineering, operations and maintenance, fuel procurement, management and supervision, technical support and training, administrative support, and other managerial or technical services required to operate, maintain, and decommission nuclear electric power facilities.  Entergy Nuclear, Inc. provided decommissioning services for the Maine Yankee nuclear power plant and continues to pursue opportunities for Entergy Wholesale Commodities with other nuclear plant owners through operating agreements.



Entergy Nuclear, Inc. also offers operating license renewal and life extension services to nuclear power plant owners.  TLG Services, a subsidiary of Entergy Nuclear Inc., offers decommissioning, engineering, and related services to nuclear power plant owners.  In April 2009, Entergy announced that it will team with energy firm ENERCON to offer nuclear development services ranging from plant relicensing to full-service, new plant deployment.  ENERCON has experience in engineering, environmental, technical and management services.



In September 2003, Entergy agreed to provide plant operation support services for the 800 MW Cooper Nuclear Station located near Brownville, Nebraska.  The original contract was to expire in 2014 corresponding to the original operating license life of the plant.  In 2006 an Entergy subsidiary signed an agreement to provide license renewal services for the Cooper Nuclear Station.  The Cooper Nuclear Station received its license renewal from the NRC on November 29, 2010.  Entergy continues to provide implementation services for the renewed license.  In 2010 an Entergy subsidiary signed an agreement to extend the management support services to Cooper Nuclear Station by 15 years, through January 2029.





228



Regulation of Entergy’s Business



Federal Power Act



The Federal Power Act provides the FERC the authority to regulate:



·the transmission and wholesale sale of electric energy in interstate commerce;

·sales or acquisition of certain assets;

·securities issuances;

·the licensing of certain hydroelectric projects;

·certain other activities, including accounting policies and practices of electric and gas utilities; and

·changes in control of FERC jurisdictional entities or rate schedules.



The Federal Power Act gives the FERC jurisdiction over the rates charged by System Energy for Grand Gulf capacity and energy provided to Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans and over some of the rates charged by Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.  The FERC also regulates the provisions of the System Agreement, including the rates, and the provision of transmission service to wholesale market participants.



Entergy Arkansas holds a FERC license that expires in 2053 for two hydroelectric projects totaling 70 MW of capacity.



State Regulation



Utility



Entergy Arkansas is subject to regulation by the APSC, which includes the authority to:



·oversee utility service;

·set retail rates;

·determine reasonable and adequate service;

·control leasing;

·control the acquisition or sale of any public utility plant or property constituting an operating unit or system;

·set rates of depreciation;

·issue certificates of convenience and necessity and certificates of environmental compatibility and public need; and

·regulate the issuance and sale of certain securities.



Additionally, Entergy Arkansas serves a limited number of retail customers in Tennessee and as a result, may be required to submit certain matters approved by the APSC for consideration by the Tennessee Regulatory Authority. Additionally, Entergy Arkansas maintains limited facilities in Missouri but does not provide retail electric service to customers in Missouri. Although Entergy Arkansas obtained a certificate with respect to its Missouri facilities, Entergy Arkansas is not subject to the retail rate or regulatory scheme in Missouri.



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s electric and gas business and Entergy Louisiana are subject to regulation by the LPSC as to:



·utility service;

·retail rates and charges;

·certification of generating facilities;

·certification of power or capacity purchase contracts;

·audit of the fuel adjustment charge, environmental adjustment charge, and avoided cost payment to Qualifying Facilities;

·integrated resource planning;



229



·utility mergers and acquisitions and other changes of control; and

·depreciation and other matters.



Entergy Louisiana is also subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council with respect to such matters within Algiers in Orleans Parish, although the precise scope of that jurisdiction differs from that of the LPSC.



Entergy Mississippi is subject to regulation by the MPSC as to the following:



·utility service;

·service areas;

·facilities;

·certification of generating facilities and certain transmission projects;

·retail rates;

·fuel cost recovery;

·depreciation rates; and

·mergers and changes of control.



Entergy Mississippi is also subject to regulation by the APSC as to the certificate of environmental compatibility and public need for the Independence Station, which is located in Arkansas.



Entergy New Orleans is subject to regulation by the City Council as to the following:



·utility service;

·retail rates and charges;

·standards of service;

·depreciation,

·issuance and sale of certain securities; and

·other matters.



To the extent authorized by governing legislation, Entergy Texas is subject to the original jurisdiction of the municipal authorities of a number of incorporated cities in Texas with appellate jurisdiction over such matters residing in the PUCT.  Entergy Texas is also subject to regulation by the PUCT as to:



·retail rates and service in unincorporated areas of its service territory, and in municipalities that have ceded jurisdiction to the PUCT;

·customer service standards;

·certification of certain transmission projects; and

·extensions of service into new areas.



Regulation of the Nuclear Power Industry



Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and Energy Reorganization Act of 1974



Under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, the operation of nuclear plants is heavily regulated by the NRC, which has broad power to impose licensing and safety-related requirements.  The NRC has broad authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, as owners of all or portions of ANO, River Bend, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, respectively, and Entergy Operations, as the licensee and operator of these units, are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC.  Entergy subsidiaries in the Entergy Wholesale Commodities segment are subject to the NRC’s jurisdiction as the owners and operator of Pilgrim, Indian Point Energy Center, FitzPatrick, Vermont Yankee, and Palisades.  Substantial capital expenditures at Entergy’s nuclear plants because of revised safety requirements of the NRC could be required in the future.



230

Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982



Spent Nuclear Fuel







The permanent spent fuel repository in the U.S. has been legislated to be Yucca Mountain, Nevada.  The DOE is required by law to proceed with the licensing (the DOE filed the license application in June 2008) and, after the license is granted by the NRC, proceed with the repository construction and commencement of receipt of spent fuel.  Because the DOE has not begun accepting spent fuel, it is in non-compliance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 and has breached its spent fuel disposal contracts.  The DOE continues to delay meeting its obligation.  Moreover, the Obama administration has taken specific steps to discontinue the Yucca Mountain project and study a new spent fuel strategy.  Such actions included a motion to the NRC to withdraw the license application with prejudice and the establishment of a commission to develop recommendations for alternative spent fuel storage solutions.  DOE and NRC actions to shut down the Yucca Mountain process are subject to current litigation, and the government has taken no effective action to date related to the recommendations of the appointed spent fuel study commission.  Accordingly, large uncertainty remains regarding the time frame under which the DOE will begin to accept spent fuel from Entergy's facilities for storage or disposal.  As a result, continuing future expenditures will be required to increase spent fuel storage capacity at Entergy's nuclear sites.









231



Pending DOE acceptance and disposal of spent nuclear fuel, the owners of nuclear plants are providing their own spent fuel storage.  Storage capability additions using dry casks began operations at Palisades in 1993, at ANO in 1996, at FitzPatrick in 2002, at River Bend in 2005, at Grand Gulf in 2006, at Indian Point and Vermont Yankee in 2008, and at Waterford 3 in 2011.  These facilities will be expanded as needed.  Current on-site spent fuel storage capacity at Pilgrim is estimated to be sufficient until approximately 2014, by which time dry cask storage facilities are planned to be placed into service at that unit.



Nuclear Plant Decommissioning



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Texas, and System Energy are entitled to recover from customers through electric rates the estimated decommissioning costs for ANO, the portion of River Bend subject to retail rate regulation, Waterford 3, and Grand Gulf, respectively.  The collections are deposited in trust funds that can only be used for future decommissioning costs.  Entergy periodically reviews and updates the estimated decommissioning costs to reflect inflation and changes in regulatory requirements and technology, and then makes applications to the regulatory authorities to reflect, in rates, the changes in projected decommissioning costs.



Following a review in 2009, Entergy concluded that there was a funding shortfall for Vermont Yankee of approximately $40 million, which it satisfied with a $40 million guarantee from Entergy Corporation that is still in place.  On July 28, 2010, the LPSC approved increased decommissioning collections for Waterford 3 and the Louisiana regulated share of River Bend and on December 13, 2010, the PUCT approved increased decommissioning collections for the Texas share of River Bend, to address previously identified funding shortfalls.  Entergy currently believes its decommissioning funding will be sufficient for its nuclear plants subject to retail rate regulation, although decommissioning cost inflation and trust fund performance will ultimately determine the adequacy of the funding amounts.



For the Indian Point 3 and FitzPatrick plants purchased in 2000, NYPA retained the decommissioning trusts and the decommissioning liabilities.  NYPA and Entergy subsidiaries executed decommissioning agreements, which specify their decommissioning obligations.  NYPA has the rights to require the Entergy subsidiaries to assume each of the decommissioning liabilities provided that it assigns the corresponding decommissioning trust, up to a specified level, to the Entergy subsidiaries.  If the decommissioning liabilities are retained by NYPA, the responsible Entergy subsidiary will perform the decommissioning of the plants at a price equal to the lesser of a pre-specified level or the amount in the decommissioning trusts.



Additional information with respect to Entergy’s decommissioning costs and decommissioning trust funds is found in Note 9 and Note 17 to the financial statements.





232



Price-Anderson Act



The Price-Anderson Act requires that reactor licensees purchase insurance and participate in a secondary insurance pool that provides insurance coverage for the public in the event of a nuclear power plant accident.  The costs of this insurance are borne by the nuclear power industry.  Congress amended and renewed the Price-Anderson Act in 2005 for a term through 2025.  The Price-Anderson Act limits contingent liability for a single nuclear incident to approximately $117.5 million per reactor (with 104 nuclear industry reactors currently participating).  Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, System Energy, and Entergy Wholesale Commodities have protection with respect to this liability through a combination of private insurance and an industry assessment program, as well as insurance for property damage, costs of replacement power, and other risks relating to nuclear generating units.  The Price-Anderson Act and insurance applicable to the nuclear programs of Entergy are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to the financial statements.



Environmental Regulation



Entergy’s facilities and operations are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities having jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes, and other environmental matters.  Management believes that Entergy’s businesses are in substantial compliance with environmental regulations currently applicable to its facilities and operations.  Because environmental regulations are subject to change, future compliance requirements and costs cannot be precisely estimated.  Except to the extent discussed below, at this time compliance with federal, state, and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise protecting the environment, is incorporated into the routine cost structure of Entergy’s businesses and is not expected to have a material effect on their competitive position, results of operations, cash flows, or financial position.



Clean Air Act and Subsequent Amendments



The Clean Air Act and its amendments establish several programs that currently or in the future may affect Entergy’s fossil-fueled generation facilities and, to a much lesser extent, certain operations at nuclear and other  facilities.  Individual states also operate similar independent state programs or delegated federal programs that may include requirements more stringent than federal regulatory requirements.  These programs include:



·New source review and preconstruction permits for new sources of criteria air pollutants and significant modifications to existing facilities;

·Acid rain program for control of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx);

·Nonattainment area programs for control of criteria air pollutants, which could include fee assessments for air pollutant emission sources under Section 185 of the Clean Air Act if attainment is not reached in a timely manner;

·Hazardous air pollutant emissions reduction programs;

·Interstate Air Transport;

·Operating permits program for administration and enforcement of these and other Clean Air Act programs; and

·Regional Haze and Best Available Retrofit Technology programs.



New Source Review (NSR)



Preconstruction permits are required for new facilities and for existing facilities that undergo a modification that results in a significant net emissions increase and is not classified as routine repair, maintenance, or replacement.  Units that undergo a non-routine modification must obtain a permit modification and may be required to install additional air pollution control technologies. Entergy has an established process for identifying modifications requiring additional permitting approval and has followed the



233

regulations and associated guidance provided by the states and the federal government with regard to the determination of routine repair, maintenance, and replacement.  In recent years, however, the EPA has begun an enforcement initiative, aimed primarily at coal plants, to identify modifications that it does not consider routine for which the unit did not obtain a modified permit.  Various courts and the EPA have been inconsistent in their judgments regarding modifications that are considered routine.



In February 2011, Entergy received a request from the EPA for several categories of information concerning capital and maintenance projects at the White Bluff and Independence facilities, both located in Arkansas, in order to determine compliance with the Clean Air Act.  In August 2011, Entergy’s Nelson facility, located in Louisiana, received a similar request for information from the EPA.  Entergy responded to both requests.  Neither EPA request for information alleged that the facilities are in violation of law.



Acid Rain Program



The Clean Air Act provides SO2allowances to most of the affected Entergy generating units for emissions based upon past emission levels and operating characteristics.  Each allowance is an entitlement to emit one ton of SO2per year.  Plant owners are required to possess allowances for SO2emissions from affected generating units.  Virtually all Entergy fossil-fueled generating units are subject to SO2allowance requirements.  Entergy could be required to purchase additional allowances when it generates power using fuel oil.  Fuel oil usage is determined by economic dispatch and influenced by the price of natural gas, incremental emission allowance costs, and the availability and cost of purchased power.



Ozone Nonattainment



Entergy Texas operates one fossil-fueled generating unit (Lewis Creek) in a geographic area that is not in attainment of the currently-enforced national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) for ozone.  The nonattainment area that affects Entergy Texas is the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area.  Areas in nonattainment are classified as "marginal," "moderate," "serious," or "severe."  When an area fails to meet the ambient air standard, the EPA requires state regulatory authorities to prepare state implementation plans meant to cause progress toward bringing the area into attainment with applicable standards.



The Houston-Galveston-Brazoria area was originally classified as "moderate" nonattainment under the 8-hour ozone standard with an attainment date of June 15, 2010.  On June 15, 2007, the Texas governor petitioned the EPA to reclassify Houston-Galveston-Brazoria from "moderate" to "severe" and the EPA granted the request on October 1, 2008.  The area's new attainment date for the 8-hour ozone standard is as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than June 15, 2019.



In March 2008, the EPA revised the NAAQS for ozone, creating the potential for additional counties and parishes in which Entergy operates to be placed in nonattainment status.  On April 30, 2012, the EPA released its final non-attainment designations for the 2008 ozone NAAQS.  In Entergy’s utility service area, the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria, Texas; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Memphis, Tennessee/Mississippi/Arkansas areas were designated as in “marginal” nonattainment.



For these marginal areas attainment must be demonstrated no later than December 31, 2015 (with EPA evaluating whether the area attained the standard based on monitored ozone data from 2013-2015).  In the final designation rule, EPA states that it anticipates the marginal areas will be able to attain by that date based upon reductions attendant with other rules and programs such as the interstate transport rules.  Entergy facilities in these areas may be subject to installation of NOxcontrols, but the degree of control will remain unknown until the states are further along in implementing in the marginal areas.   Entergy will continue to monitor and engage in the state’s implementation process in Entergy states.



Potential SO2Nonattainment



The EPA issued a final rule in June 2010 adopting an SO21-hour national ambient air quality standard of 75 parts per billion.  The EPA designations for counties in attainment and nonattainment were originally due in June 2012, but the EPA has indicated certain of these designations will occur by June 2013.  States must then submit implementation plans designed to return the areas to attainment to the EPA for approval.  Additional capital projects or operational changes may be required for Entergy facilities in these areas.



234

Hazardous Air Pollutants



The EPA released the final Mercury and Air Toxics Standard (MATS) rule in December 2011 and the rule became effective in April 2012.  Entergy currently is developing compliance plans to meet requirements of the rule, which could result in significant capital expenditures for Entergy’s coal-fired units.  Compliance with MATS is required by the Clean Air Act within three years, or by 2015, although certain extensions of this deadline are available from state permit authorities and the EPA.



Cross-State Air Pollution



In March 2005, the EPA finalized the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), which was intended to reduce SO2and NOxemissions from electric generation plants in order to improve air quality in twenty-nine eastern states.  The rule required a combination of investment of capital to install pollution control equipment and increased operating costs through the purchase of emission allowances.  Entergy began implementation in 2007, including installation of controls at several facilities and the development of an emission allowance procurement strategy.



Based on several court challenges, the CAIR was vacated and remanded to the EPA by the D.C. Circuit in 2008.  The court allowed the CAIR to become effective in January 2009, while the EPA revised the rule.  On July 7, 2011, the EPA released its final Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR, which previously was referred to as the Transport Rule).  The rule was directed at limiting the interstate transport of emissions of NOxand SO2as precursors to ozone and fine particulate matter.  The final rule provided a significantly lower number of allowances to Entergy’s Utility states than did the draft rule.  Entergy’s capital investment and annual allowance purchase costs under the CSAPR would depend on the economic assessment of NOxand SO2allowance markets, the cost of control technologies, generation unit utilization, and the availability and cost of purchased power.



Entergy filed a petition for review with the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and a petition with the EPA for reconsideration of the rule and stay of its effectiveness.  Several other parties filed similar petitions.  On December 30, 2011, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals stayed CSAPR and instructed the EPA to continue administering CAIR, pending further judicial review.  In August 2012 the court issued a decision vacating CSAPR and leaving CAIR in place pending the promulgation of a lawful replacement for both rules.  In January 2013 the court denied petitions for reconsideration filed by the EPA and certain states and intervenors.  Entergy is complying with CAIR as it continues to be implemented until further instruction from the court or the EPA.



Regional Haze




x

x

x






235

March 12, 2012 and became final on April 11, 2012.  The EPA did not issue a Federal Implementation Plan for regional haze requirements because Arkansas has indicated it wishes to revise and resubmit its SIP.  There will be a two-year timeframe in which the EPA must either approve a revised SIP issued by Arkansas or issue a Federal Implementation Plan.  These decisions will impact the timing and level of control installation at White Bluff.



Fine Particle (PM2.5) National Ambient Air Quality Standard



On December 14, 2012, the EPA released regulations that lowered the NAAQS for fine particle pollution or PM2.5.  Currently, the Houston-Galveston-Brazoria counties area in Texas and Pulaski County in Arkansas are expected to be in non-attainment of the new NAAQS.  The EPA projections are that these areas will be in attainment by 2020 due to emission reductions from other EPA and state regulations.



The EPA anticipates making initial attainment/nonattainment designations by December 2014, with those designations likely becoming effective in early 2015.  Following nonattainment designation, states with areas designated nonattainment will be required to develop state implementation plans that outline control requirements that enable the affected counties and parishes to reach attainment status.  States would have until 2020 (five years after designations are effective) to meet the revised annual PM2.5 standard.  A state may request a possible extension to 2025 depending on the severity of an area’s fine particle pollution problems and the availability of pollution controls.  Entergy will continue to monitor and engage in the state’s implementation process in Entergy states.



Potential Legislative, Regulatory, and Judicial Developments



In addition to the specific instances described above, there are a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives that are under consideration at the federal, state, and local level.  Because of the nature of Entergy’s business, the imposition of any of these initiatives could affect Entergy’s operations.  Entergy continues to monitor these initiatives and activities in order to analyze their potential operational and cost implications.  These initiatives include:



·designation by the EPA and state environmental agencies of areas that are not in attainment with national ambient air quality standards;

·introduction of bills in Congress and development of regulations by the EPA proposing further limits on NOx, SO2, mercury, and carbon dioxide and other air emissions.  New legislation or regulations applicable to stationary sources could take the form of market-based cap-and-trade programs, direct requirements for the installation of air emission controls onto air emission sources, or other or combined regulatory programs.  Entergy cannot estimate the effect of any future legislation at this time due to the uncertainty of the regulatory format;

·efforts in Congress or at the EPA to establish a mandatory federal carbon dioxide emission control structure;

·passage and implementation of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative by several states in the northeastern United States and similar actions in other regions of the United States;

·efforts on the state and federal level to codify renewable portfolio standards, a clean energy standard, or a similar mechanism requiring utilities to produce or purchase a certain percentage of their power from defined renewable energy sources or energy sources with lower emissions;

·efforts to develop more stringent state water quality standards, effluent limitations for Entergy’s industry sector, stormwater runoff control regulations, and cooling water intake structure requirements;

·efforts to restrict the previously-approved continued use of oil-filled equipment containing certain levels of PCBs; and

·efforts by certain external groups to encourage reporting and disclosure of carbon dioxide emissions and risk.  Entergy has prepared responses for the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) annual questionnaire for the past several years and has given permission for those responses to be posted to CDP’s website.



Entergy continues to support national legislation that would increase planning certainty for electric utilities while addressing carbon dioxide emissions in a responsible and flexible manner.  By virtue of its proportionally large investment in low-emitting gas-fired and nuclear generation technologies, Entergy has a low overall carbon dioxide emission “intensity,” or rate of carbon dioxide emitted per kilowatt-hour of electricity generated.  In anticipation of the potential imposition of carbon dioxide emission limits on the electric industry in the future, Entergy initiated actions designed to reduce its exposure to potential new governmental requirements related to carbon dioxide emissions.  These voluntary actions included establishment of a formal program to stabilize power



236



plant carbon dioxide emissions at 2000 levels through 2005, and Entergy succeeded in actually reducing emissions below 2000 levels. Total carbon dioxide emissions representing Entergy’s ownership share of power plants in the United States were approximately 53.2 million tons in 2000 and 35.6 million tons in 2005.  In 2006, Entergy changed its method of calculating emissions and now includes emissions from controllable power purchases as well as its ownership share of generation.  Entergy established a second formal voluntary program to stabilize power plant carbon dioxide emissions and emissions from controllable power purchases at 20% below 2000 levels through 2010.  Entergy has extended this commitment through 2020.  Total carbon dioxide emissions representing Entergy’s ownership share of power plants and controllable power purchases in the United States were approximately 46.3 million tons in 2011 and approximately 45.0 million tons in 2012.



Greenhouse Gas Reporting



In September 2009, the EPA finalized a rule to require reporting of several greenhouse gases.  This rule will require Entergy to report annually greenhouse gas emissions from operating power plants and natural gas distribution operations.  Entergy developed compliance plans, collected the necessary data, and has reported as required beginning in 2011.



New Source Performance Standards for Greenhouse Gas Emissions



The EPA announced a schedule for establishing new source performance standards (NSPS) for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from power plants and refineries.  Under the schedule, the EPA would have issued proposed regulations for power plants by July 26, 2011and final regulations no later than May 26, 2012.  On April 13, 2012, the EPA published the proposed NSPS for GHGs for new sources in the Federal Register.  The proposed rule only applies to new units and would limit CO2 emissions for any fossil-fired power plant greater than 25 MW to 1,000 pounds of CO2 per MWh of electricity produced.  Concerns have been expressed regarding the proposed rule’s potential applicability to existing facilities that undergo modification.  The rule would not apply to certain units such as simple cycle natural gas units and biomass units.  Entergy commented on the proposed rule and will continue to monitor and participate in the rulemaking process.



The EPA also agreed with environmental litigants to promulgate a performance standard for GHG emissions applicable to existing power plants and refineries.  Although the EPA has not announced a current deadline for this activity, the development of a proposed rule may occur in 2013.  Entergy will continue to monitor and participate in the rulemaking process.



Nelson Unit 6 (Entergy Gulf States Louisiana)









237



Clean Water Act



The 1972 amendments to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (known as the Clean Water Act) provide the statutory basis for the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit program and the basic structure for regulating the discharge of pollutants from point sources to waters of the United States.  The Clean Water Act requires virtually all discharges of pollutants to waters of the United States to be permitted.  Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act regulates cooling water intake structures, section 401 of the Clean Water Act requires a water quality certification from the state in support of certain federal actions and approvals, and section 404 regulates the dredge and fill of waters of the United States, including jurisdictional wetlands.



NPDES Permits and Section 401 Water Quality Certifications



NPDES permits are subject to renewal every five years.  Consequently, Entergy is currently in various stages of the data evaluation and discharge permitting process for its power plants.  Additionally, the State of New York has taken the position that a new state-issued water quality certification is required as part of the NRC license renewal process.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ Indian Point nuclear facility in New York is seeking a new Section 401 certification prior to license renewal under full reservation of rights.



Indian Point



Entergy is involved in an administrative permitting process with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) for renewal of the Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 discharge permits.  In November 2003 the NYSDEC issued a draft permit indicating that closed cycle cooling would be considered the “best technology available” for minimizing alleged adverse environmental effects attributable to the intake of cooling water at Indian Point, subject to a feasibility determination and alternatives analysis for that technology, if Entergy applied for and received NRC license renewal for Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3.  Upon becoming effective, the draft permit also would have required payment of approximately $24 million annually, and an annual 42 unit-day outage period, until closed cycle cooling is implemented.  Entergy is participating in the administrative process to request that the draft permit be modified prior to final issuance, and opposes any requirement to install cooling towers at Indian Point.







In February 2010, Entergy provided to the NYSDEC an updated estimate of the capital cost to retrofit Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 with cooling towers.  Construction costs for retrofitting with cooling towers are estimated to be at least $1.19 billion, in addition to lost generation of approximately 14.5 terawatt-hours (TWh) during the forced outage of both units that is estimated to take at least 42 weeks.  Entergy also proposed an alternative to the cooling towers, the use of cylindrical wedgewire screens, the construction costs of which are now expected to be approximately $250 million to $300 million.  Because a cooling tower retrofitting of this size and complexity has never been undertaken at an operating nuclear facility, significant uncertainties exist in the capital



238



cost estimates and, therefore, the actual capital costs could be materially higher than estimated.  Moreover, construction outage-related costs to Entergy have not been calculated because of the significant variability in power pricing at any given time, but they are expected to be significant and may exceed the capital costs.  The capital cost estimate for the wedgewire screen construction is also subject to uncertainty.  Hearings on certain issues began in 2011 in consolidation with certain issues in the water quality certification matter that is discussed further below.  The NYSDEC is expected to consider the information submitted and issue another draft permit with a new best technology available determination, which could still be cooling towers.  A new comment period and further contested proceedings likely would follow.



Entergy submitted its application for a water quality certification to the NYSDEC in April 2009, with a reservation of rights regarding the applicability of Section 401 in this case.  After Entergy submitted certain additional information in response to NYSDEC requests for additional information, in February 2010 the NYSDEC staff determined that Entergy’s water quality certification application was complete.  In April 2010 the NYSDEC staff issued a proposed notice of denial of Entergy’s water quality certification application (the Notice).  NYSDEC staff’s Notice triggered an administrative adjudicatory hearing before NYSDEC ALJs on the proposed Notice.  The NYSDEC staff decision does not restrict Indian Point operations, but the issuance of a certification is potentially required prior to NRC issuance of renewed unit licenses.



In June 2011, Entergy filed notice with the NRC that the NYSDEC, the agency that would issue or deny a water quality certification for the Indian Point license renewal process, has taken longer than one year to take final action on Entergy’s application for a water quality certification and, therefore, has waived its opportunity to require a certification under the provisions of Section 401 of the Clean Water Act.  The NYSDEC has notified the NRC that it disagrees with Entergy’s position and does not believe that it has waived the right to require a certification.  The NYSDEC ALJs overseeing the agency’s certification adjudicatory process stated in a ruling issued in July 2011 that while the waiver issue is pending before the NRC, the NYSDEC hearing process will continue on selected issues.  The judge held a Legislative Hearing (agency public comment session) and an Issues Conference (pre-trial conference) in July 2010 and set certain issues for trial in October 2011, which is continuing into 2013.  After the full hearing on the merits, the ALJs will issue a recommended decision to the Commissioner who will then issue the final agency decision.  A party to the proceeding can appeal the decision of the Commissioner to state court.



Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station



On October 9, 2012, EcoLaw, a coalition of several environmental groups, served Entergy Nuclear Generating Company and Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc. with a notice of intent (NOI) to sue under the Clean Water Act for alleged violations at the Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station.  The NOI alleges 33,253 discharge permit violations since 1994 (including alleged violations prior to Entergy’s ownership; Entergy purchased the plant in 1999) and seeks $25,000 per violation for a total of $831,325,000.  The Clean Water Act states that an alleged violator must be given 60 days notice prior to a citizen’s suit being filed.  Early review of the NOI indicates that many of the alleged violations were discharges in compliance with the current EPA facility discharge permit, which the putative plaintiff alleges was improperly issued or modified.  An additional NOI was served by EcoLaw to the same Entergy parties and the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection alleging violations of state water quality standards and requesting revocation of the state-issued Section 401 Water Quality Certification associated with the plant’s water discharge permit (21-day NOI requirement under state law).  On November 2, 2012 and December 7, 2012, Entergy filed responses to the state and federal notices of intent to sue.  To date, Pilgrim has not received notice that EcoLaw has initiated any lawsuits against Pilgrim.



316(b) Cooling Water Intake Structures



The EPA finalized regulations in July 2004 governing the intake of water at large existing power plants employing cooling water intake structures.  The rule sought to reduce perceived impacts on aquatic resources by requiring covered facilities to implement technology or other measures to meet EPA-targeted reductions in water use and corresponding perceived aquatic impacts.  Entergy, other industry members and industry groups, environmental groups, and a coalition of northeastern and mid-Atlantic states challenged various aspects of the rule.  In January 2007 the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals remanded the rule to the EPA for reconsideration.  The court instructed the EPA to reconsider several aspects of the rule that were beneficial to businesses



239

affected by the rule after finding that these provisions of the rule were contrary to the language of the Clean Water Act or were not sufficiently explained in the rule.  In April 2008 the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review the Second Circuit decision on the question of whether the EPA may take into consideration a cost-benefit analysis in developing these regulations, a consideration of potential benefit to businesses affected by the rule that the Second Circuit disallowed.  In March 2009 the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the petitioners that cost-benefit analysis may be taken into consideration.  The EPA reissued the proposed rule in April 2011, with finalization anticipated by July 27, 2012; however, the EPA extended the deadline to June 27, 2013.  Entergy filed comments with the EPA on the proposed rule.



At the request of the EPA Region 1 (Boston), Entergy submitted extensive data to the agency in July 2008 concerning cooling water intake impacts at the Pilgrim nuclear power plant.  The engineering study, included as part of the July 2008 submittal, concluded that cooling towers are not feasible due to restrictions in the plant's condenser design and capacity.  Other technologies, such as variable speed pumps and the relocation of the cooling water intake, were also analyzed as part of that submittal.  The EPA has not yet responded to the July 2008 submittal.



Entergy will continue to review the revised proposed rule and monitor the activities of the EPA and the states toward the implementation of section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act.  Until analysis of this revised proposed rule is complete, deadlines for determining compliance with Section 316(b) and for any required capital or operational expenditures are unknown at this time.  As a result, management cannot predict the amounts Entergy will ultimately be required to spend to comply with Section 316(b) and any related state regulations, although such amounts could be significant.



Coastal Zone Management Act



The Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) requires federally-permitted activities within a coastal zone to be consistent with the state’s federally-approved coastal zone management program.  Accordingly, Entergy must ensure, to the extent applicable, that the requirements of the CZMA, which is administered in New York primarily by the NYSDOS, are satisfied before the NRC may issue renewed licenses for Indian Point 2 and 3.  Indian Point filed its consistency determination application with the NYSDOS, subject to a reservation of rights, in December 2012.  On January 16, 2013, NYSDOS determined that additional information was needed, namely the supplement to the NRC’s FSEIS which is expected in April 2013.  When the application is deemed complete, the NYSDOS has six months from the date of the application to issue or deny the consistency certification.  For additional discussion of the CZMA proceedings regarding New York see “Part 1, Item 1,Entergy Wholesale Commodities–Property -Nuclear Generating Stations.”



Groundwater at Certain Nuclear Sites



The NRC requires nuclear power plants to regularly monitor and report the presence of radioactive material in the environment.  Entergy joined other nuclear utilities and the Nuclear Energy Institute in 2006 to develop a voluntary groundwater monitoring and protection program.  This initiative began after detection of very low levels of radioactive material, primarily tritium, in groundwater at several plants in the United States.  Tritium is a radioactive form of hydrogen that occurs naturally and is also a byproduct of nuclear plant operations.  In addition to tritium, other radionuclides have been found in site groundwater at nuclear plants.



As part of the groundwater monitoring and protection program, Entergy has: (1) performed reviews of plant groundwater characteristics (hydrology) and historical records of past events on site that may have potentially impacted groundwater; (2) implemented fleet procedures on how to handle events that could impact groundwater; and (3) installed groundwater monitoring wells and began periodic sampling.  The program also includes protocols for notifying local officials if contamination is found.  To date, radionuclides such as tritium have been detected at FitzPatrick, Indian Point, Palisades, Pilgrim, Grand Gulf, Vermont Yankee, and River Bend.  Each of these sites has installed groundwater monitoring wells and implemented a program for testing groundwater at the sites for the presence of tritium.  Based on current information, the concentrations and locations of tritium detected at these plants pose no threat to public health or safety, but each site continues to evaluate the results from its groundwater monitoring program.





240

Indian Point Units 1 and 2 Hazardous Waste Remediation



As part of the effort to terminate the current Indian Point 2 mixed waste storage permit, Entergy was required to perform groundwater and soil sampling for metals, PCBs and other non-radiological contaminants on plant property, regardless of whether these contaminants stem from onsite activities or were related to the waste stored on-site pursuant to the permit.  Entergy believes this permit is no longer necessary for the facility due to an exemption for mixed wastes (hazardous waste that is also radioactive) promulgated as part of the EPA’s hazardous waste regulations.  This exemption allows mixed waste to be regulated through the NRC license instead of through a separate EPA or state hazardous waste permit.  In February 2008, Entergy submitted its report on this sampling effort to the NYSDEC.  The report indicated the presence of various metals in soils and groundwater at levels above the NYSDEC cleanup objectives.  It does not appear that these metals are connected to operation of the nuclear facility.  At the request of the NYSDEC, Entergy submitted a plan in August 2008 for a study that identified the sources of the metals.  The NYSDEC approved the work plan with some conditions related to the need to study whether the soil impact observed may have originated from plant construction materials.  In November 2012, Entergy received a letter from NYSDEC indicating that, based on the additional sampling results, no corrective action is required at this time.



Prior to Entergy’s purchase of Indian Point Unit 1, the previous owner completed the cleanup and desludging of the Unit 1 water storage pool, generating mixed waste.  The waste currently is stored in the Unit 1 containment building in accordance with NRC regulations controlling low level radioactive waste.  The waste is also regulated by the NYSDEC.  The NYSDEC requires a quarterly survey of the availability of any commercial facility capable of treating, processing, and disposing of this waste in a commercially reasonable manner.  Entergy continues to review this matter and to conduct its quarterly searches for a commercially reasonable vendor that is acceptable both to the NRC and the NYSDEC.  The cost of this disposal cannot be estimated at this time due to the many variables existing in the type and manner of disposal.



Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980





de minimis



Coal Combustion Residuals



In June 2010 the EPA issued a proposed rule on coal combustion residuals (CCRs) that contains two primary regulatory options: (1) regulating CCRs destined for disposal in landfills or received (including stored) in surface impoundments as so-called “special wastes” under the hazardous waste program of RCRA Subtitle C; or (2) regulating CCRs destined for disposal in landfills or surface impoundments as non-hazardous wastes under Subtitle D of RCRA.  Under both options, CCRs that are beneficially used in certain processes would remain excluded from hazardous waste regulation.



241The proposed regulations would create new compliance requirements including modified storage, new notification and reporting practices, new financial assurance requirements, and product disposal considerations.  According to EPA estimates, the annualized cost of on-site disposal under the two proposals would be $3.6 million to $9 million for the White Bluff and Independence facilities and $1.7 million to $3.3 million for the Nelson Unit 6 facility.  If Entergy utilized off-site disposal, which it would not plan to do, the EPA’s total cost estimates for disposal of CCRs under Subtitle C regulation ranges from $250 to $350 million per year.  Entergy believes that on-site disposal options will be available at its facilities, to the extent needed for CCR that cannot be transferred for beneficial reuse.  Entergy commented on the proposed rule and will continue to monitor and participate in the rulemaking process.



Other Environmental Matters



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas



Several class action and other suits have been filed in state and federal courts seeking relief from Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and others for damages caused by the disposal of hazardous waste and for asbestos-related disease allegedly resulting from exposure on Entergy Gulf States, Inc.’s premises (see “Litigation” below).







In 1994, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. initiated an environmental groundwater assessment associated with the submittal of a permit application for a construction project at the Louisiana Station Generating Plant (Louisiana Station).  In 1995 the ongoing assessment confirmed subsurface soil and groundwater impact to three primary areas on the plant site.  Subsequently from 1997 to 1999 soil was removed under guidance and permission of the LDEQ.  In 2000, Entergy pursued the final regulatory required remediation of the site’s groundwater and submitted a long-term monitoring plan approved by LDEQ in 2002.  Implementation of the monitoring plan in 2002 identified the presence of hydrocarbon contributed by a third party.  Responsibility has been defined and a cost sharing has been implemented with a responsible third party identified in the previous characterization phase.  The final groundwater clean-up and monitoring phase at Louisiana Station is expected to continue for an undefined period of time until groundwater characterization and compliance monitoring meet LDEQ Risk Evaluation and Corrective Action Program groundwater standards for a consistent period of time.  Current annual environmental management cost is now under $50 thousand per year and includes partial reimbursement by the third party.





242



Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and Entergy New Orleans



Several class action and other suits have been filed in state and federal courts seeking relief from Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans and others for damages caused by the disposal of hazardous waste and for asbestos-related disease allegedly resulting from exposure on Entergy Louisiana’s and Entergy New Orleans’s premises (see “Litigation” below).



During 1993, the LDEQ issued new rules for solid waste regulation, including regulation of wastewater impoundments.  Entergy Louisiana has determined that some of its power plant wastewater impoundments were affected by these regulations and may require remediation, repair, or closure.  Completion of this work is dependent on pending LDEQ approval of submitted solid waste permit applications.  As a result, a total recorded liability in the amount of $1.9 million for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and Entergy New Orleans existed at December 31, 2012 for ongoing wastewater remediation and repairs and closures.  Management believes this reserve to be adequate based on current estimates.



Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas







Entergy Mississippi, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas



The EPA notified Entergy Mississippi, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Texas, and Entergy New Orleans that the EPA believes those entities are PRPs concerning contamination of an area known as “Devil’s Swamp Lake” near the Port of Baton Rouge, Louisiana.  The area allegedly was contaminated by the operations of Rollins Environmental (LA), Inc, which operated a disposal facility to which many companies contributed waste.  Documents provided by the EPA indicate that Entergy Louisiana may also be a PRP.  Entergy continues to monitor this developing situation.



Entergy



In November 2010 a transformer at the Indian Point facility failed, resulting in a fire and the release of non-PCB oil to the ground surface.  The fire was extinguished by the facility’s fire deluge system along with the site’s fire brigade.  No injuries occurred due to the transformer failure or Entergy’s response.  Non-PCB oil and deluge water were released into the facility’s discharge canal and the environment surrounding the transformer and discharge canal, including the Hudson River, as a result of the failure, fire,



243

and fire suppression.  As a result of this discharge of non-PCB oil, Entergy in March 2012 agreed to a settlement with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation under which Entergy paid a civil penalty of $625,000, will pay another $600,000 to environmental benefit programs in the region, and a possible additional payment of $275,000 that is suspended contingent upon Entergy’s compliance with the other terms of the settlement.  Entergy also paid $67,000 in natural resource damages and oversight costs.



Litigation



Entergy uses legal and appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against it, but certain states in which Entergy operates have proven to be unusually litigious environments.  Judges and juries in Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas have demonstrated a willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs in personal injury, property damage, and business tort cases.  The litigation environment in these states poses a significant business risk to Entergy.



Ratepayer and Fuel Cost Recovery Lawsuits(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)



Texas Power Price Lawsuit



In August 2003, a lawsuit was filed in the district court of Chambers County, Texas by Texas residents on behalf of a purported class of the Texas retail customers of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. who were billed and paid for electric power from January 1, 1994 to the present.  The named defendants include Entergy Corporation, Entergy Services, Entergy Power, Entergy Power Marketing Corp., and Entergy Arkansas.  Entergy Gulf States, Inc. was not a named defendant, but was alleged to be a co-conspirator.  The court granted the request of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. to intervene in the lawsuit to protect its interests.



Plaintiffs allege that the defendants implemented a “price gouging accounting scheme” to sell to plaintiffs and similarly situated utility customers higher priced power generated by the defendants while rejecting less expensive power offered from off-system suppliers.  In particular, plaintiffs allege that the defendants manipulated and continue to manipulate the dispatch of generation so that power is purchased from affiliated expensive resources instead of buying cheaper off-system power.



Plaintiffs stated in their pleadings that customers in Texas were charged at least $57 million above prevailing market prices for power.  Plaintiffs seek actual, consequential and exemplary damages, costs and attorneys’ fees, and disgorgement of profits.  The plaintiffs’ experts have tendered a report calculating damages in a large range, from $153 million to $972 million in present value, under various scenarios.  The Entergy defendants have tendered expert reports challenging the assumptions, methodologies, and conclusions of the plaintiffs’ expert reports.



The case is pending in state district court, and in March 2012 the court found that the case met the requirements to be maintained as a class action under Texas law.  On April 30, 2012, the court entered an order certifying the class.  The defendants have appealed the order to the Texas Court of Appeals – First District.  The appeal is pending and proceedings in district court are stayed until the appeal is resolved.



Mississippi Attorney General Complaint



The Mississippi attorney general filed a complaint in state court in December 2008 against Entergy Corporation, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy Services, and Entergy Power alleging, among other things, violations of Mississippi statutes, fraud, and breach of good faith and fair dealing, and requesting an accounting and restitution.  The complaint is wide ranging and relates to tariffs and procedures under which Entergy Mississippi purchases power not generated in Mississippi to meet electricity demand.  Entergy believes the complaint is unfounded.  In December 2008 the defendant Entergy companies removed the attorney general’s suit to U.S. District Court in Jackson, Mississippi.  The Mississippi attorney general moved to remand the matter to state court.  In August 2012 the District Court issued an opinion denying the Attorney General’s motion for remand, finding that the District Court has subject matter jurisdiction under the Class Action Fairness Act.



244The defendant Entergy companies answered the complaint and filed a counterclaim for relief based upon the Mississippi Public Utilities Act and the Federal Power Act.  In May 2009 the defendant Entergy companies filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings asserting grounds of federal preemption, the exclusive jurisdiction of the MPSC, and factual errors in the attorney general’s complaint.  In September 2012 the District Court heard oral argument on Entergy’s motion for judgment on the pleadings.  The District Court’s ruling on the motion for judgment on the pleadings is pending.Fiber Optic Cable Litigation(Entergy Corporation and Entergy Louisiana)



Several property owners have filed a class action suit against Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Services, Entergy Technology Holding Company, and Entergy Technology Company in state court in St. James Parish, Louisiana purportedly on behalf of all property owners in Louisiana who have conveyed easements to the defendants.  The lawsuit alleges that Entergy installed fiber optic cable across the plaintiffs’ property without obtaining appropriate easements.  The plaintiffs seek damages equal to the fair market value of the surplus fiber optic cable capacity, including a share of the profits made through use of the fiber optic cables, and punitive damages.  Entergy removed the case to federal court in New Orleans; however, the district court remanded the case back to state court.  In February 2004 the state court entered an order certifying this matter as a class action.  Entergy’s appeals of this ruling were denied.  The parties entered into a term sheet establishing basic terms for a settlement which was approved by the court in March 2012.  No appeal was taken from the court’s ruling approving the settlement and all claims have been submitted. The total exposure of the Entergy companies in this matter is $4.5 million.  All funding of this exposure is from Entergy Technology Holding Company, Entergy Technology Company and Entergy Corporation.  Entergy Services, Inc. and the Utility operating companies will not contribute to the settlement.



Asbestos Litigation(Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)



Numerous lawsuits have been filed in federal and state courts primarily in Texas and Louisiana, primarily by contractor employees who worked in the 1940-1980s timeframe, against Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas, and to a lesser extent the other Utility operating companies, as premises owners of power plants, for damages caused by alleged exposure to asbestos.  Many other defendants are named in these lawsuits as well.  Currently, there are approximately 400 lawsuits involving approximately 5,000 claimants.  Management believes that adequate provisions have been established to cover any exposure.  Additionally, negotiations continue with insurers to recover reimbursements.  Management believes that loss exposure has been and will continue to be handled so that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not be material, in the aggregate, to the financial position or results of operation of the Utility operating companies.



Employment and Labor-related Proceedings(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy)



The Registrant Subsidiaries and other Entergy subsidiaries are responding to various lawsuits in both state and federal courts and to other labor-related proceedings filed by current and former employees, recognized bargaining representatives, and third parties not selected for open positions or providing services directly or indirectly to one or more of the Registrant Subsidiaries and other Entergy subsidiaries.  Generally, the amount of damages being sought is not specified in these proceedings.  These actions include, but are not limited to, allegations of wrongful employment actions; wage disputes and other claims under the Fair Labor Standards Act or its state counterparts; claims of race, gender, age, and disability discrimination; disputes arising under collective bargaining agreements; unfair labor practice proceedings and other administrative proceedings before the National Labor Relations Board or concerning the National Labor Relations Act; claims of retaliation; and claims for or regarding benefits under various Entergy Corporation-sponsored plans. Entergy and the Registrant Subsidiaries are responding to these lawsuits and proceedings and deny liability to the claimants.





245



Employees



Employees are an integral part of Entergy’s commitment to serving customers.  As of December 31, 2012, Entergy subsidiaries employed 14,625 people.



Utility:Entergy Arkansas1,372Entergy Gulf States Louisiana798Entergy Louisiana947Entergy Mississippi749Entergy New Orleans341Entergy Texas651System Energy-Entergy Operations2,920Entergy Services3,043Entergy Nuclear Operations3,688Other subsidiaries116Total Entergy14,625



Approximately 5,200 employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Utility Workers Union of America, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the United Government Security Officers of America, and the International Union, Security, Police, Fire Professionals of America.



Availability of SEC filings and other information on Entergy’s website



Entergy electronically files reports with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies, and amendments to such reports.  The public may read and copy any materials that Entergy files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.



Entergy uses its website, http://www.entergy.com, as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information.  Filings made with the SEC are posted and available without charge on Entergy's website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  These filings include our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format) and current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; and any amendments to those reports or statements.  All such postings and filings are available on Entergy's Investor Relations website free of charge.  Entergy is providing the address to its Internet site solely for the information of investors and does not intend the address to be an active link.  The contents of the website are not incorporated into this report.







246Table of Contents