10-K


l96166ae10vk.htm

THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY  10-K/FYE 6-30-02

The Procter & Gamble Company  10-K/FYE 6-30-02


ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

TO THE

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

FOR THE

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2002

******************************************

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002

Commission File No. 1-434

THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY

One Procter & Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202

Telephone (513) 983-1100

IRS Employer Identification No. 31-0411980

State of Incorporation: Ohio

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each Exchange on which registered

Common Stock, without Par Value

New York, Cincinnati, Amsterdam, Paris, Basle,

Geneva, Lausanne, Zurich, Frankfurt, Brussels,

Tokyo

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.        Yes

x

No

o

.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

There were 1,300,493,412 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of July 31,
2002. The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
amounted to $116 billion on July 31, 2002.




Documents Incorporated By
Reference

Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June
30, 2002 are incorporated by reference into Part I, Part II and Part IV of this
report.

Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.



PART I

Item 1.

Business.

General Development of
Business

The Procter & Gamble Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1905, having been
built from a business founded in 1837 by William Procter and James Gamble.
Today, the Company manufactures and markets a broad range of consumer products
in many countries throughout the world.

Unless the context indicates otherwise, the term the “Company” as used
herein refers to The Procter & Gamble Company (the registrant) and its
subsidiaries.

In 1999, the Company announced its intention to transition from its
previous geographic-based structure to a product-based global business unit
structure. Concurrent with that change, the Company initiated a multi-year
restructuring program, a discussion of which is incorporated herein by
reference to Note 2, Restructuring Program, which appears on pages 33-34 of the
Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002. On
November 16, 2001, the Company completed the acquisition of the Clairol
business from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and, on May 31, 2002, the Company
completed the spin-off of the Jif peanut butter and Crisco shortening brands to
the Company’s shareholders and their subsequent merger into the J.M. Smucker
Company. Additional information about these two transactions is incorporated
herein by reference to Note 3, Acquisitions and Spin-off, which appears on
pages 34-35 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June
30, 2002. Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein
by reference to the Letter to Shareholders, which appears on pages 1-14 of the
Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002.

Financial Information About
Industry Segments

The Company’s products fall into five business segments: fabric and home
care; baby, feminine and family care; beauty care; health care; and food and
beverage.

Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to Note 13, Segment Information, of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, which appears on page 44, and Financial Review, which
appears on pages 17-25 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2002.



Narrative Description of
Business

The Company’s business, represented by the aggregate of its fabric and
home care; baby, feminine and family care; beauty care; health care; and food
and beverage segments, is essentially homogeneous. None of these segments are
seasonal. Many of the factors necessary for an understanding of these five
segments are similar. The primary differences relate to the degree of capital
intensity of the businesses, which may affect gross margin trends versus
operating margins. The markets in which the Company’s products are sold are
highly competitive. The products of the Company’s business segments compete
with many large and small companies, and there is no dominant competitor or
competitors. Advertising is used in conjunction with an extensive sales force,
because the Company believes this combination provides the most efficient
method of marketing for these types of products. Product quality, performance,
value and packaging are also important competitive factors. Most of the
Company’s products in each of its segments are distributed through food, drug,
mass and other retail outlets.

The laundry and diaper categories constitute approximately 19% and 12% of
consolidated fiscal 2002 sales, respectively. These results are comparable to
the year before. The creation of new products and the development of new
performance benefits for consumers on the Company’s existing products are vital
ingredients in its continuing progress in the highly competitive markets in
which it does business. Basic research and product development activities
continued to carry a high priority during the past fiscal year. While many of
the benefits from these efforts will not be realized until future years, the
Company believes these activities demonstrate its commitment to future growth.

The Company has registered trademarks and owns or has licenses under
patents which are used in connection with its business in all segments. Some
of these patents or licenses cover significant product formulation and
processing of the Company’s products. The trademarks of all major products in
each segment are registered. In part, the Company’s success can be attributed
to the existence and continued protection of these trademarks, patents and
licenses.

Most of the raw materials used by the Company are purchased from others,
some of whom are single-source suppliers. Additionally, some raw materials,
primarily chemicals, are produced by the Company for further use in the
manufacturing process. The Company purchases and produces a substantial
variety of raw materials, no one of which is material to the Company’s business
taken as a whole.

Expenditures in fiscal year 2002 for compliance with federal, state and
local environmental laws and regulations were not materially different from
such expenditures in the prior year, and no material increase is expected in
fiscal year 2003.

Operations outside the United States are generally characterized by the
same conditions discussed in the description of the business above and may also
be affected by additional elements including changing currency values and
different rates of inflation and economic growth.

The Company has approximately 102,000 employees. The decline of
approximately 4,000 employees versus the prior year is primarily from
separations related to the Company’s restructuring program, partially offset
due to increased enrollment from the Clairol acquisition.



Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to Note 13, Segment Information, which appears on page 44; Financial
Summary, which appears on page 46; and Financial Review, which appears on pages
17-25 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30,
2002.

Financial Information About
Foreign and Domestic Operations

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to Note 13, Segment Information, which appears on page 44, and Financial
Review, which appears on pages 17-25 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002. Company sales by geography for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 2002 were as follows: North America — 57%; Europe, Middle
East and Africa — 26%; Asia — 10% and Latin America — 7%.

Assets and net sales in the United States and internationally were as follows
(in millions):

Net Sales (for the year ended June 30)

Assets (as of June 30)







United States

$

21,198

$

20,334

$

20,038

$

23,434

$

18,318

$

17,398

International

19,040

18,910

19,913

17,342

16,069

16,968

Item 2.

Properties.

In the United States, the Company owns and operates 36 manufacturing
facilities and leases and operates 2 manufacturing facilities. These
facilities are located in 21 different states. In addition, the Company owns
and operates 89 manufacturing facilities in 44 other countries. Fabric and
home care products are produced at 46 of these locations; baby, feminine and
family care products at 42; health care products at 24; beauty care products at
28; and food and beverage products at 12. Management believes that the
Company’s production facilities are adequate to support the business
efficiently and that the properties and equipment have been well maintained.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings.

The Company is involved in clean-up efforts at off-site Superfund
locations, many of which are in the preliminary stages of investigation. The
amount accrued at the end of June 30, 2002 representing the Company’s probable
future costs that can be reasonably estimated was $5 million.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters
to a Vote of Security Holders.

Not applicable.



Executive Officers of the
Registrant

The names, ages and positions held by the executive officers of the
Company on September 1, 2002 are:



All of the above named Executive Officers, except Stephen N. David, John K.
Jensen, Michael J. Power and James R. Stengel, are members of the Executive
Committee of the Global Leadership Council of The Procter & Gamble Company.
All of the Executive Officers named above have been employed by the Company for
more than five years.



PART II

Item 5.

Market for the Common
Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
Shareholder Information, which appears on page 48 of the Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, and Part III, Item 12 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 6.

Selected Financial
Data

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
Financial Summary, which appears on page 46 of the Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
Financial Review, which appears on pages 17-25; Note 1, Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies, which appears on pages 32-33; Note 2, Restructuring
Program, which appears on pages 33-34; Note 3, Acquisitions and Spin-off, which
appears on pages 34-35; Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies, which appears
on page 43; and Note 13, Segment Information, which appears on page 44 of the
Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002.

The Company has made and will make certain forward-looking statements in
the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002 and
in other contexts relating to volume and net sales growth, increases in market
shares, financial goals and cost reduction, among others.

These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and estimates
regarding competitive activity, pricing, product introductions, economic
conditions, technological innovation, currency movements, governmental action
and the development of certain markets. Among the key factors necessary to
achieve the Company’s goals are: (1) the successful integration of the
Company’s new organization structure, including achievement of expected cost
and tax savings; (2) the ability to achieve business plans, including growing
volume profitably, despite high levels of competitive activity, especially with
respect to the product categories and geographical markets in which the Company
has chosen to focus; (3) the ability to maintain key customer relationships;
(4) the achievement of growth in significant developing markets such as China,
Turkey, Mexico, the Southern Cone of Latin America, the countries of Central
and Eastern Europe and the countries of Southeast Asia; (5) the ability to
successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal matters, including resolution of
pending matters within current estimates; (6) the successful and timely
execution of planned brand divestitures; (7) the ability to successfully
implement, achieve and sustain cost improvement plans in manufacturing and
overhead areas; (8) the ability to successfully manage currency (including
currency issues in Latin America), interest rate and certain commodity cost
exposures; and (9) the ability to manage the continued political and/or
economic uncertainty in Latin America and the Middle East, as well as any
political and/or economic uncertainty due to terrorist activities. If the
Company’s assumptions and estimates are incorrect or do not come to fruition,
or if the Company does not achieve all of these key factors, then the Company’s
actual performance could vary materially from the forward-looking statements
made herein.



Item 7A.

Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
Financial Review, which appears on pages 17-25, and Note 7, Risk Management
Activities, which appears on pages 36-38 of the Annual Report to Shareholders
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002.

Item 8.

Financial Statements
and Supplemental Data

The financial statements and supplemental data are incorporated by
reference to pages 27-46 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 2002.

Item 9.

Disagreements on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors and
Executive Officers

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
pages 4-9 and 22 of the proxy statement filed since the close of the fiscal
year ended June 30, 2002, pursuant to Regulation 14A which involved the
election of directors. Pursuant to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, Executive
Officers of the Registrant are reported in Part I of this report.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
pages 9-17 of the proxy statement filed since the close of the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2002, pursuant to Regulation 14A which involved the election of
directors.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The following table gives information about the Company’s common stock
that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and rights under all
of the Company’s equity compensation plans as of June 30, 2002. The table
includes the following plans: The Procter & Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive
Compensation Plan; The Procter & Gamble 1992 Stock Plan; The Procter & Gamble
1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version); The Procter & Gamble 1993 Non-Employee
Directors’ Stock Plan; and The Procter & Gamble Future Shares Plan.

Number of

Number of securities

Securities to be

remaining available

issued upon

Weighted-average

for future issuance

exercise of

exercise price of

under equity

outstanding

outstanding

compensation plans

options, warrants

options, warrants

(excluding securities

Plan Category

and rights

and rights

reflected in column (a))

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation
plans approved by
security holders(1)

107,657,476

$

65.07

114,717,657

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by security holders(2)

12,505,420

$

80.61

4,015,000

Total

120,162,896

$

66.68

118,732,657

(3)

(1)

Includes The Procter & Gamble 2001 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan;
The Procter & Gamble 1992 Stock Plan; and The Procter & Gamble 1993
Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Plan.

(2)

Includes The Procter & Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version) and The
Procter & Gamble Future Shares Plan.

(3)

This number exceeds by 4,196,000 the total number of securities available
for grant listed in Note 8, Earnings Per Share and Stock Options, which appears
on pages 38-39 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2002. The chart in Note 8 excludes securities available under equity
compensation plans not approved by security holders (4,015,000) and securities available
under The Procter & Gamble 1993 Non-Employee Directors’
Stock Plan (181,000).



The Procter & Gamble 1992
Stock Plan (Belgian Version)

Effective February 14, 1997, the Company’s Board of Directors approved The
Procter & Gamble 1992 Stock Plan (Belgian Version). Although the plan has not
been submitted to shareholders for approval, the plan is nearly identical to
The Procter & Gamble 1992 Stock Plan, approved by the Company’s shareholders on
October 13, 1992, except for a few minor changes designed to comply with the
Belgian tax laws.

The plan is a stock incentive plan designed to attract, retain, and
motivate key Belgian employees. Under the plan, eligible participants may be
granted or offered the right to purchase stock options, may be granted stock
appreciation rights, and/or may be granted shares of the Company’s common
stock. Except in the case of death of the recipient, all stock options and
stock appreciation rights must vest in no less than one year from the date of
grant and must expire no later than fifteen years from the date of grant. The
exercise price for all stock options granted under the Plan is the average
price of the Company’s stock on the date of grant. If a recipient of a grant
leaves the Company while holding an unexercised option or right, any
unexercisable portions immediately become void, except in the case of death,
and any exercisable portions become void within one month of departure, except
in the case of death or retirement. Any common stock awarded under the plan
may be subject to restrictions on sale or transfer while the recipient is
employed, as the committee administering the plan may determine.

The Procter & Gamble Future
Shares Plan

On October 14, 1997, the Company’s Board of Directors approved The Procter
& Gamble Future Shares Plan pursuant to which options to purchase shares of the
Company’s common stock, may be granted to employees worldwide. The purpose of
this plan is to advance the interests of the Company by giving substantially
all employees a stake in the Company’s future growth and success and to
strengthen the alignment of interests between employees and the Company’s
shareholders through increased ownership of shares of the Company’s stock. The
plan has not been submitted to shareholders for approval.

Subject to adjustment for changes in the Company’s capitalization, the
number of shares to be granted under the plan is not to exceed 17 million
shares. Under the plan’s regulations, recipients are granted options to
acquire 100 shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price equal to
the average price of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant.
These options vest five years after the date of grant and expire ten years
following the date of grant. If a recipient leaves the employ of the Company
prior to the vesting date for a reason other than Disability, Retirement or
Special Separation (as defined in the plan), then the award is forfeited.

At the time of the first grant following approval of the plan, each
employee of the Company not eligible for an award under the 1992 Stock Plan was
granted options for 100 shares. Since the date of the first grant, each new
employee of the Company has also received options for 100 shares.

Additional information required by this item is incorporated by reference
to pages 19-21 of the proxy statement filed since the close of the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2002, pursuant to Regulation 14A which involved the election of
directors.



Item 13.

Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions

The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to page
22 of the proxy statement filed since the close of the fiscal year ended June
30, 2002, pursuant to Regulation 14A which involved the election of directors.



PART IV

Item 14.

Exhibits, Financial
Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K





The exhibits listed are filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission but are not included in this booklet. Copies of these
exhibits may be obtained by sending a request to: Linda D. Rohrer,
Assistant Secretary, The Procter & Gamble Company, P. O. Box 599,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45201.

B.

Reports on Form 8-K:

During the quarter ended June 30, 2002, the Company filed Current
Reports on Form 8-K containing information pursuant to Item 5
(“Other Events”) dated April 30, 2002, relating to the announcement
of earnings for the January-March 2002 quarter; and dated June 12,
2002, relating to confirmation of previously issued guidance for
fiscal year 2002.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized in the city of Cincinnati,
State of Ohio.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.





CERTIFICATIONS

I, A.G. Lafley, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Procter &
Gamble Company;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
the period covered by this annual report; and

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in
all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this annual report.

Date: September 10, 2002

A.G. LAFLEY

(A.G. Lafley)

Chairman of the Board,

President and Chief Executive

I, Clayton C. Daley Jr., certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Procter &
Gamble Company;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
the period covered by this annual report; and

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in
all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented
in this annual report.

Date: September 10, 2002

CLAYTON C. DALEY JR.

(Clayton C. Daley Jr.)

Chief Financial Officer



EXHIBIT INDEX

Table of Contents