ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Overview

We are one of
the world’s leading management consulting, technology services and outsourcing organizations, with approximately 204,000 employees; offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 53 countries; and revenues before reimbursements (“net
revenues”) of $21.55 billion for fiscal 2010.

Our “high performance business” strategy builds on our expertise
in consulting, technology and outsourcing to help clients perform at higher levels so they can create sustainable value for their customers, stakeholders and shareholders. We use our industry and business-process knowledge, our







service offering expertise and our insight into and deep understanding of emerging technologies to identify new business and technology trends and formulate and implement solutions for clients
under demanding time constraints. We help clients improve operational performance, deliver their products and services more effectively and efficiently, increase revenues in existing markets and identify and enter new markets.

We operate globally with one common brand and business model designed to enable us to provide clients around the world with the same high
level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry expertise, functional capabilities, alliances, global resources and technology, we deliver competitively priced, high-value services that help our clients measurably improve business
performance. Our global delivery model enables us to provide a complete end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on our global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective solutions to clients under demanding timeframes.

In fiscal 2010, we introduced a strategy that focuses on driving growth across three dimensions: our core business, which includes the
vast majority of management consulting, technology and outsourcing services that we have traditionally provided through our operating groups and growth platforms; new business initiatives—including analytics, digital marketing, mobility, smart
grid and sustainability, as well as new technology areas such as cloud computing, cyber security and many others—that we are building on top of our core business; and geographic expansion, particularly in our strategic growth markets of Brazil,
Russia, India, China, South Korea and Mexico.

Consulting, Technology and Outsourcing Services and Solutions

Our business is structured around five operating groups, which together comprise 19 industry groups serving clients in major industries
around the world. Our industry focus gives us an understanding of industry evolution, business issues and applicable technologies, enabling us to deliver innovative solutions tailored to each client or, as appropriate, more-standardized capabilities
to multiple clients.

Our three growth platforms—management consulting, technology and business process
outsourcing—are the innovation engines through which we develop our knowledge capital; build world-class skills and capabilities; and create, acquire and manage key assets central to the development of solutions for our clients. The subject
matter experts within these areas work closely with the professionals in our operating groups to develop and deliver solutions to clients. Client engagement teams—which typically consist of industry experts, capability specialists and
professionals with local market knowledge—leverage the full capabilities of our global delivery model to deliver price-competitive solutions and services. In certain instances our client engagement teams include subcontractors, who supplement
our professionals with additional resources in a specific skill, service or product area, as needed.









Operating Groups

The following table shows the current organization of our five operating groups and their 19 industry groups. For
financial reporting purposes, our operating groups are our reportable operating segments. We do not allocate total assets by operating group, although our operating groups do manage and control certain assets. For certain historical financial
information regarding our operating groups (including certain asset information), as well as financial information by geography (including long-lived asset information), see Note 16 (Segment Reporting) to our Consolidated Financial Statements below
under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”



Operating
GroupsCommunications& High TechFinancialServicesHealth &Public ServiceProductsResources•  Communications•  Electronics & High Tech•  Media & Entertainment•  Banking•  Capital Markets•  Insurance•  Health•  Public Service•  Automotive•  Air, Freight & Travel Services•  Consumer Goods & Services•  Industrial Equipment•  Infrastructure & Transportation Services•  Life Sciences•  Retail•  Chemicals•  Energy•  Natural Resources•  Utilities

Communications & High Tech

We are a leading provider of management consulting, technology, systems integration and outsourcing services and solutions to the communications, electronics, high technology, media and entertainment
industries. Our Communications & High Tech professionals help clients leverage innovation and enhance their business results through industry-specific solutions and by seizing the opportunities made possible by the convergence of
communications, computing and content. Examples of our services and solutions include the application of mobile technology, broadband and Internet protocol solutions, advanced advertising solutions, cloud computing application architecture, product
innovation and digital rights management as well as systems integration, customer care, supply chain and workforce transformation services. In support of these services, we selectively pursue strategic acquisitions and have developed an array of
assets, repeatable solutions, methodologies and research facilities to demonstrate how new technologies and industry-leading practices can be applied in new and innovative ways to enhance our clients’ business performance.

Our Communications & High Tech operating group comprises the following industry groups:



•Communications.Our Communications industry group serves many of the world’s leading wireline, wireless,
cable and satellite communications and service providers. We provide a wide range of services designed to help our communications clients increase margins, improve asset utilization, improve customer retention, increase revenues, reduce overall
costs and accelerate sales cycles. We offer a comprehensive solutions portfolio designed to address major business and operational issues related to sales and service channels, new product innovation, network functions, corporate functions and
information technology. Our Communications industry group represented approximately 56% of our Communications & High Tech operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2010.



•Electronics & High Tech.Our Electronics & High Tech industry group serves the communications
technology, consumer technology, enterprise technology, semiconductor,







software and aerospace/defense segments. This industry group provides services in areas such as strategy, engineering services, enterprise resource management, customer relationship management,
embedded software solutions, sales transformation, supply chain management, embedded software development, human performance, and merger/acquisition activities, including post-merger integration. We also offer a suite of reusable solutions designed
to address the industry’s major business and operational challenges, such as new product innovation and development, customer service and support, sales and marketing, and global sales and operations effectiveness. Our Electronics &
High Tech industry group represented approximately 35% of our Communications & High Tech operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2010.



•Media & Entertainment.Our Media & Entertainment industry group serves the broadcast,
entertainment (television, music and movie), print, publishing and portal industries. Professionals in this industry group provide a wide range of services, including digital marketing, performance advertising, digital rights management, and digital
content and media technologies to help clients effectively manage, access, distribute and protect content across multiple platforms and devices. We also provide additional comprehensive turn-key solutions through Origin Digital and Digiplug,
specialized Accenture units that help content owners and distributors adapt business processes and systems to enable digital monetization.

Financial Services

Our Financial Services operating group focuses
on the opportunities created by our clients’ needs to adapt to changing market conditions, including increased cost pressures, industry consolidation, regulatory changes, the creation of common industry standards and protocols, and the move to
a more integrated industry model. We help clients meet these challenges through a variety of assets, such as proprietary software, services and solutions, including consulting and outsourcing strategies to increase cost efficiency and transform
businesses, and customer relationship management initiatives that enable them to acquire and retain profitable customers and improve their cross-selling capabilities. Our Financial Services operating group comprises the following industry groups:



•Banking.Our Banking industry group works with retail and commercial banks and diversified financial enterprises.
We help these organizations develop and execute strategies to target, acquire and retain customers more effectively; expand product and service offerings; manage risk; comply with new regulatory initiatives; support integration related to mergers
and acquisitions; and leverage new technologies and distribution channels. Our Banking industry group represented approximately 56% of our Financial Services operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2010.



•Capital Markets.Our Capital Markets industry group helps investment banks, broker/dealers, asset-management
firms, depositories, exchanges and clearing & settlement organizations transform their businesses to increase competitiveness. For example, we help clients develop and implement innovative trading, asset-management and
market-information-management systems and solutions.



•Insurance.Our Insurance industry group helps property & casualty insurers, life insurers, reinsurance
firms and insurance brokers improve business processes, modernize their technologies and improve the quality and consistency of risk selection decisions. We offer a claims management capability that enables insurers to provide better customer
service while optimizing claims costs, as well as industry-leading insurance policy administration technology solutions that enable insurers to bring products to market more quickly and reduce costs. We also provide a variety of outsourcing
solutions to help insurers improve working capital and cash flow, deliver permanent cost savings and enhance long-term growth. Our Insurance industry group represented approximately 30% of our Financial Services operating group’s net revenues
in fiscal 2010.









Health & Public Service

Our Health & Public Service operating group comprises the following industry groups:



•Health.Health-service organizations are under enormous pressure to reduce costs, improve the access and quality
of healthcare services, and meet ever-growing government and regulatory requirements. Through our Connected Health initiative, our Health industry group works with healthcare providers, government health departments, policy-making
authorities/regulators, managed care organizations, health insurers and other industry-related organizations to improve the quality, accessibility and affordability of healthcare. Our key offerings address a variety of areas, including electronic
health records and health information exchanges; back-office services for hospitals and health plans; sales & marketing; core administration services; health management services; claims excellence/cost containment; and corporate functions,
including human resources, finance, procurement and information technology (“IT”).



•Public Service.Our Public Service industry group provides services designed to help public-service entities
around the world increase the efficiency of their operations, improve service delivery to citizens, and reduce their overall costs to address significant budget deficits. We work primarily with defense, revenue, human services, health, postal, and
justice and public-safety authorities or agencies, and our clients are generally national, state or local-level government organizations, as well as pan-geographic organizations. Our offerings help public-sector clients address some of their most
pressing needs, including developing modern tax systems that help increase compliance and enhance revenues; ensuring the security of citizens and businesses; and improving the delivery of human services to eligible recipients. We work with clients
to transform their customer-facing and back-office operations and enable services to be delivered through appropriate technologies that make government more accessible, in a manner consistent with expectations established in the private sector. Our
Public Service industry group represented approximately 76% of our Health & Public Service operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2010. In addition, our work with clients in the U.S. federal government represented approximately 32%
of our Health & Public Service operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2010.

Products

Our Products operating group comprises the following industry groups:



•Air Freight & Travel Services.Our Air Freight & Travel Services industry group serves airlines,
freight and logistics companies across all modes of transport, and travel services companies, including hotels, tour operators, rental car companies and cruise operators. We help clients increase organizational effectiveness by developing and
implementing more-efficient networks, integrating supply chains, developing procurement strategies, and building improved customer-relationship-management capabilities. We also offer industry-specific solutions, such as Navitaire for the airline
industry and a proprietary end-to-end shipment-management solution for the freight and logistics industry.



•Automotive.Our Automotive industry group works with auto manufacturers, dealers, retailers and service providers.
We help clients develop and implement innovative solutions focused on product development and commercialization, customer service and retention, channel strategy and management, branding, buyer-driven business models, cost reduction, customer
relationship management and integrated supplier partnerships.



•Consumer Goods & Services.Our Consumer Goods & Services industry group serves food and
beverage, alcoholic beverage, household goods and personal care, tobacco and fashion/apparel manufacturers and agribusiness and consumer health companies around the world. Our







service offerings are designed to help these companies enhance their performance by addressing critical elements of success, including large-scale enterprise resource planning (ERP) strategy and
implementation, sales and marketing transformation, working-capital productivity improvement and supply chain collaboration. We also help clients build operating models that facilitate end-to-end processes focused on improved outcomes for users,
employees, customers and suppliers. Our Consumer Goods & Services industry group represented approximately 31% of our Products operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2010.



•Industrial Equipment.Our Industrial Equipment industry group serves the industrial and electrical equipment,
automotive supplier, consumer durable and heavy equipment industries. We help our clients increase operating and supply chain efficiencies by improving processes and leveraging technology. We also help clients generate value from strategic mergers
and acquisitions. In addition, our Industrial Equipment industry group develops and deploys innovative solutions in the areas of cloud computing, channel management, collaborative product design, remote field maintenance, enterprise application
integration and outsourcing.



•Infrastructure & Transportation Services.Our Infrastructure & Transportation Services industry
group serves companies in the construction, infrastructure-management (ports, airports, seaports and road-tolling facilities) and mass-transportation industries. We help clients develop and implement strategies and solutions to improve their
information technology and customer-relationship-management capabilities, operate more-efficient networks, integrate supply chains, develop procurement and electronic business marketplace strategies, and more effectively manage maintenance, repair
and overhaul processes and expenses—all in the context of increasing priorities around mobility services and sustainability. Leveraging our mass transport, construction and engineering experience, we also provide transport-infrastructure
(railroad, airport, seaport) and urban-infrastructure services, including project management, fare management and transport operations services.



•Life Sciences.Our Life Sciences industry group works with pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical products and
other companies across the life-sciences value chain, providing services such as large-scale business and technology transformation, targeted business performance improvement, and post-merger integration. Our key areas of focus include research and
development, supply chain, manufacturing, marketing and sales, and select back-office functions. Additionally, we operate life sciences-specific business process and IT outsourcing services across all geographies in the global industry.



•Retail.Our Retail industry group serves a wide spectrum of retailers and distributors, including supermarkets,
department stores, specialty premium retailers and large mass-merchandise discounters. We provide service offerings that help clients address new ways of reaching the retail trade and consumers through precision marketing; maximize brand synergies
and cost reductions in mergers and acquisitions; improve supply chain efficiencies through collaborative commerce business models; and enhance the efficiency of internal operations.

Resources

Our Resources operating group serves the chemicals, energy, forest products, metals and mining, utilities and related industries. With market conditions driving energy companies to seek new ways of
creating value for shareholders, deregulation and climate change fundamentally reforming the utilities industry and yielding cross-border opportunities, and an intensive focus on productivity and portfolio management in the chemicals and natural
resources industries, we are working with clients to create innovative solutions that are designed to help them differentiate themselves in the marketplace and gain competitive advantage. These include helping global energy companies optimize
existing upstream and







downstream operations while securing their upstream positions; helping utilities clients deal with deregulation; helping metals and mining clients globalize their business models; helping
chemicals clients decrease operations costs; and working with clients across all industry segments on the “green agenda” to enable them to meet emission targets and increase energy efficiency. Our Resources operating group comprises the
following industry groups:



•Chemicals.Our Chemicals industry group works with a wide cross-section of industry segments, including
petrochemicals, specialty chemicals, polymers and plastics, gases and agricultural chemical companies, among others. We help chemical companies develop and implement new business strategies, redesign business processes, manage complex change
initiatives, and integrate processes and technologies to achieve higher levels of performance. We also have long-term outsourcing contracts with many industry leaders.



•Energy.Our Energy industry group serves a wide range of companies in the oil and gas industry, including
upstream, downstream, oil services and clean-energy companies. Our key areas of focus include helping clients optimize production, manage their hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon supply chains, streamline marketing operations and realize the full
potential of third-party enterprise-wide technology solutions. In addition, our multi-client outsourcing centers enable clients to increase operational efficiencies and exploit cross-industry synergies. Our Energy industry group represented
approximately 31% of our Resources operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2010.



•Natural Resources.Our Natural Resources industry group serves the metals, mining, forest products and building
materials industries. We help our clients—which include mining companies in the coal, iron ore, copper and precious metals sectors; steel and aluminum producers; and lumber, pulp, papermaking, converting and packaging companies—develop and
implement new business strategies, redesign business processes, manage complex change initiatives, and integrate processes and technologies to achieve higher levels of performance.



•Utilities.Our Utilities industry group works with electric, gas and water utilities around the world to respond
to an evolving and highly competitive marketplace. The group’s work includes helping utilities transform themselves from regulated, and sometimes state-owned, local entities to international deregulated corporations, as well as developing
diverse products and service offerings to help our clients deliver higher levels of service to their customers. These offerings include customer relationship management, workforce enablement, smart-grid development, supply chain optimization, and
trading and risk management. We also provide a range of outsourced customer-care services to utilities and retail energy companies in North America. Our Utilities industry group represented approximately 40% of our Resources operating group’s
net revenues in fiscal 2010.

Growth Platforms

Our management consulting, technology and business process outsourcing (“BPO”) growth platforms are the skill-based
“innovation engines” through which we develop our knowledge capital; build world-class skills and capabilities; and create, acquire and manage key assets central to the development of solutions for our clients. The professionals within
these areas work closely with our operating groups to deliver integrated services and solutions to clients.

Management
Consulting

Our management consulting growth platform is responsible for the development and delivery of our strategic,
operational, functional, industry, process and change consulting capabilities, working closely with the professionals in our operating groups and the other growth platforms. Our management







consulting professionals help large, complex organizations design and execute changes to their business and operating models, either for one or more critical business units or across the entire
organization.

This growth platform comprises seven service lines:



•Customer Relationship Management.The professionals in our Customer Relationship Management (“CRM”)
service line help companies acquire, develop and retain more profitable customer relationships. We offer a full range of innovative capabilities that address every aspect of CRM, including marketing, direct and indirect sales, customer service,
field support and customer contact operations. These capabilities include rigorous approaches to improving the return on marketing investment, methods for building insight into customers’ purchase habits and service preferences, tailoring
offers and service treatment based upon that insight, and unique methods of optimizing the quality, cost and revenue impact of sales and service operations. We use these skills to help our clients accelerate growth, improve marketing and sales
productivity and reduce customer-care costs—thus increasing the value of their customer relationships and enhancing the economic value of their brands.



•Finance & Performance Management.The professionals in our Finance & Performance Management
service line work with our clients’ finance and business-unit executives to develop financial transaction processing, corporate finance and business performance reporting capabilities. Among the services we provide are strategic consulting on
the design and structure of the finance function and the establishment of shared service centers. Our finance capability services also address revenue cycle management, billing, credit and collection effectiveness, electronic invoicing and
settlement, tax processing, treasury operations, trading operations, lending and debt recovery. Our performance management services address shareholder value targeting, scorecard and performance metrics development, performance reporting solutions
and applied business analytics to improve profitability. Our professionals work with finance executives to develop and implement solutions that help them align their companies’ investments with their business objectives and establish security
relating to the exchange of information to reporting institutions.



•Process & Innovation Performance.The Process & Innovation Performance service line helps
clients achieve measurable, lasting improvements in operational performance, innovation performance and growth. Taking an end-to-end, process-based approach, professionals in this service line help clients address key business challenges such as
complexity management, lean manufacturing and operations, process innovation, strategic cost reduction and growth through innovation.



•Risk Management.The professionals in our Risk Management service line, which we established in February 2010,
work with clients to develop risk management capabilities to help protect and grow the economic value of their organizations. Our Risk Management services help our clients align business strategy and risk capabilities to evaluate market options and
drive profitable growth; develop a risk-conscious culture across their organizations; adapt to industry and geographic regulations to drive positive business impact; and develop capabilities to collect, model and analyze business information for
better risk-based decision making.



•Strategy.Our Strategy professionals combine their strategy and operations experience to help clients turn
insights into results at both the enterprise and business-unit level. With deep skills and capabilities in corporate strategy, corporate restructuring, growth and innovation strategies, mergers and acquisitions, merger integration, organization
strategy, pricing strategy and profitability assessment, we help clients develop—and execute—pragmatic ways to transform organizations and drive sustained high performance.









•Supply Chain Management.The professionals in our Supply Chain Management service line work with clients across a
broad range of industries to develop and implement supply chain and operations strategies that enable profitable growth in new and existing markets. Our professionals combine global industry expertise and skills in supply chain strategy, sourcing
and procurement, supply chain planning, manufacturing and design, fulfillment and service management to help organizations achieve high performance. We work with clients to align operating models to support business strategies; optimize global
operations; support profitable product launches; and enhance the skills and capabilities of the supply chain workforce.



•Talent & Organization Performance.The professionals in our Talent & Organization Performance
service line work with clients on a wide range of talent management, workforce and organizational issues to deliver improved business and operational results. Our integrated approach and end-to-end capabilities include services and solutions in
organization and change management, human resources administration, learning, knowledge management, organizational performance management, talent management and overall transformation of key workforces. We help companies and governments improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of their human resources services while lowering associated costs; deliver improvements in employee and workforce performance; and transform organizations through project-, program- and enterprise-level change
management.

Technology

Our technology growth platform comprises three service areas: systems integration consulting, technology consulting, and IT outsourcing.

Systems Integration Consulting

Our key systems integration consulting services and solutions include:



•Enterprise Solutions and Enterprise Resource Planning.We implement a variety of application
software—including SAP and Oracle, among others—to streamline business processes, systems and information and help organizations access, manage and exploit data to make more-informed business decisions. Our skilled professionals provide
planning, implementation, change management and upgrade solutions across the primary application software product suites that underpin all major business functions.



•Industry and Functional Solutions.We provide clients with robust, large-scale industry and functional solutions
based on proprietary reusable assets, aggregated into industry solutions, such as the Accenture Communications Solutions suite for communications providers and the Accenture Revenue Solution suite for tax offices, as well as solutions for major
industry-specific requirements. We also provide specialized services and solutions to support specific business functions, including finance and planning, customer relationship management, supply chain and human resource management.



•Information Management Services.We provide services to help organizations manage the full range of their
information needs to improve data quality, enhance decision-making capabilities and meet compliance requirements. Our services include business intelligence as well as unstructured content management and portals; data management and data quality
solutions; and information architecture development. Our information management assets complement and are embedded in our industry and functional solutions.



•Cloud Computing.We help client CIOs and business leaders use cloud computing to enable improvement in IT
efficiency and agility. Accenture guides organizations through the







integration of cloud-based services to deliver short-term cost savings and longer-term enhancements to their application portfolios and IT infrastructures.



•Custom Solutions.With deep skills and expertise in both J2EE (Java-based) and .NET technology architectures, we
work with clients to develop custom solutions that meet unique business needs, often using open-source technology products and platforms.



•Software as a Service (SaaS).We help clients implement SaaS solutions to meet their business needs with the added
benefits of increasing flexibility and reducing total cost of ownership. Our services include requirements definition, design, configuration, testing, change management, data conversion and integration.



•Mobility Solutions.We help clients develop solutions that give their workforces access to key enterprise
applications—including online trading and wealth management, supply chain management, telematics, radio frequency identification, field-force enablement and customer relationship management—through mobile devices and/or the Internet. These
solutions enable clients to improve efficiency, lower costs, enhance differentiation and ensure compliance.



•Microsoft Solutions.Together with our alliance partner Microsoft and our Avanade subsidiary, we develop and
deliver cost-efficient, innovative business solutions based on Microsoft Windows Server and other .NET technologies, leveraging our deep industry expertise and practical applications of leading-edge technologies.

Technology Consulting

Our key technology consulting services and solutions include:



•IT Strategy & Transformation.We help client CEOs and CIOs link IT investments to business results and
help manage those investments to ensure that planned business impact is achieved. We also help CIOs transform how IT works, both internally and with business partners, so that IT is “run like a business” to deliver high performance.



•Enterprise Architecture.We provide solutions that integrate IT with business capabilities to provide clients with
seamless operating environments. Our solutions provide a reference point for measuring both IT investment and results, creating the delivery roadmap that defines how IT systems need to change to drive future business growth and higher performance.



•Infrastructure Consulting.We provide solutions to help clients optimize their IT infrastructures while reducing
costs. From data center, operations engineering and enterprise network design and implementation to desktop solutions, our services enable clients to rationalize, standardize, optimize, secure and transform their IT infrastructures for improved
performance of mission-critical business processes, applications and end users.



•IT Security Consulting.Our solutions help clients forge secure business environments that enable them to grow
their capabilities and become more agile in response to changing market forces and evolving threats—all without incurring additional complexity. Working with us, our clients are better able to secure data and applications, protect identities,
address threats and vulnerabilities, and meet stringent compliance demands while reducing costs and improving efficiency.



•Application Portfolio Optimization and Renewal.We specialize in defining and executing strategies that transform
our clients’ application portfolios into rationalized, flexible, cost-efficient and reliable assets. Our services and solutions help clients define and implement innovative approaches to extending the useful life of legacy applications at a
significantly reduced cost compared with replacement, rapidly turning around non-performing systems and migrating







custom solutions written in vintage languages or hosted on retiring platforms to more modern, sustainable solutions. Our capabilities combine deeply skilled professionals with a suite of renewal
tools that accelerate and automate the portfolio optimization process.



•Digital Solutions.We provide clients with solutions that move more of their business and internal operations
online to improve productivity, manage costs and drive revenue growth. We help clients define their online strategies, improve customer experiences and identify areas for website optimization. We also help them incorporate next-generation digital
technology—such as wikis, blogs, crowd-sourcing and mash-ups, among others—to create significant opportunities for collaboration and sharing with their employees, suppliers and customers.



•Research & Development.Through Accenture Technology Labs—our research and development
organization—we use new and emerging technologies to develop business solutions that we believe will be the drivers of our clients’ growth and enable them to be first to market with unique capabilities. Key areas of research and
development for clients include information insight, collaboration, biometrics, virtualized infrastructures, predictive maintenance, Web 2.0, cloud computing and sensor technologies, among others.



•Microsoft Solutions.Together with our alliance partner Microsoft and our Avanade subsidiary, we design and
provide cost-efficient, innovative business solutions based on Microsoft Windows Server and other .NET technologies, leveraging our deep industry expertise and practical applications of leading-edge technologies.

IT Outsourcing

Our approach to IT outsourcing goes beyond traditional cost-cutting measures to help clients improve the total performance of application and infrastructure development and maintenance. We provide the
full range of application outsourcing and infrastructure outsourcing services and solutions:



•Application Outsourcing.We provide a wide array of application outsourcing services under flexible arrangements,
managing custom or packaged software applications—including enterprise-wide applications such as SAP and Oracle—over their complete development and maintenance life-cycles. Our scope of services ranges from standardized, discrete
application outsourcing services—including application testing, application management of enterprise-wide software programs and capacity services—to large-scale application enhancement and development for individual or multiple
applications, or an entire portfolio of applications. We can also take end-to-end responsibility for all of a client’s IT function, including infrastructure and operations, leveraging our shared-services delivery groups and our application and
infrastructure transformation consulting expertise to deliver significant gains in client productivity, providing services from a variety of locations, including lower-cost locations.



•Infrastructure Outsourcing.We provide ongoing management of clients’ IT infrastructure capabilities and
functions, with expertise in six service areas: service desk; workplace services; data-center services; network services; security services; and IT spend management. We provide discrete skills (i.e., capacity services) as well as fully managed
services. Our services offer clients a more cost-effective, secure and responsive infrastructure that can be scaled and adapted to their business needs. We provide these services either through our own centers and capabilities or in conjunction with
our strategic subcontractors.

Business Process Outsourcing

Our business process outsourcing growth platform provides business processes that help clients transform their businesses, achieve higher
levels of performance and results, and/or reduce costs.







Through our BPO services, we manage specific business processes or functions for clients, providing solutions that are more efficient and cost-effective than if the functions were provided
in-house while also providing business insight to support executive decision-making.

We offer clients across all industries a
variety of BPO services for specific business functions and/or processes, including finance and accounting, human resources, learning and procurement, among others. We also offer specialized BPO services tailored to clients in specific industries.
For instance, we offer life insurers policy administration and management services, including high-volume transaction-processing capabilities. We help market-leading health payers improve service performance in core operational functions, coupled
with accompanying cost reductions. In addition, through our Navitaire subsidiary, we offer airlines a range of transaction-processing services, including Internet reservations, airport check-in, revenue management and accounting, crew scheduling and
management, and disruption recovery.

We also provide a broad spectrum of custom BPO outsourcing services designed to address
the unique needs of client organizations. Custom services can include an entire process or discrete activities within or across multiple business functions.

Global Delivery Model

A key Accenture differentiator is our strategic
global delivery model, which allows us to draw on the benefits of using people and other resources from around the world—including scalable, standardized processes, methods and tools; specialized business process and technology skills; cost
advantages; foreign-language fluency; proximity to clients; and time-zone advantages—to deliver high-quality solutions under demanding time-frames. Emphasizing quality, productivity, reduced risk, speed to market and predictability, our global
delivery model enables us to provide clients with price-competitive services and solutions that drive higher levels of performance.

A critical component of this capability is our Global Delivery Network, which comprises local Accenture professionals working at client sites around the world as well as at more than 50 delivery centers.
These are Accenture facilities where teams of our technology and business-process professionals use proven assets—including processes, solution designs, infrastructure and software—to create and deliver business and technology solutions
for clients. Our delivery centers improve the efficiency of our engagement teams through the reuse of these assets and by leveraging the industry, functional and technical skills and experience of delivery center professionals.

Accenture client teams around the world, including professionals in our Global Delivery Network, leverage the Accenture Delivery Suite,
which combines our common methods, tools, architectures and metrics in support of our global delivery efforts. The Accenture Delivery Suite provides a single, cohesive approach—enabling us to start projects quickly, deliver with high quality,
and improve our ability to meet our clients’ expectations. In addition, our ability to build seamless global teams—leveraging the right professionals with the right skills for each task—enables us to provide a complete end-to-end
capability, with consistent Accenture processes around the globe.

Our Global Delivery Network continues to be a competitive
differentiator for us. As of August 31, 2010, we had more than 116,000 people in our network globally.

Alliances

We have sales and delivery alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own, either by, among other things, enhancing a
service offering, delivering a new technology or helping us extend our services to new geographies. By combining our alliance partners’ products and services with our own capabilities and expertise, we create innovative, high-value business
solutions for our clients. Some







alliances are specifically aligned with one of our service lines, thereby adding skills, technology and insights that are applicable across many of the industries we serve. Other alliances extend
and enhance our offerings specific to a single industry group. Almost all of our alliances are non-exclusive. These alliances can generate significant revenues from services to implement our alliance partners’ products. We also receive some
direct payments, which are not material to our business, from our alliance partners as compensation for marketing, technical and other assistance.

Research and Innovation

We are committed to developing leading-edge ideas,
as we believe that both research and innovation have been major factors in our success and will help us continue to grow in the future. We use our investment in research and development—on which we spent $384 million,
$435 million and $390 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively—to help create, commercialize and disseminate innovative business strategies and technology solutions.

Our research and innovation program is designed to generate early insights into how knowledge can be harnessed to create innovative
business solutions for our clients and to develop business strategies with significant value. One component of this is our research and development organization, Accenture Technology Labs, which identifies and develops new technologies that we
believe will be the drivers of our clients’ growth and enable them to be first to market with unique capabilities. Some of the key areas in which our research and development efforts and investments are focused include mobility, cloud
computing, business analytics, digital marketing, information management and smart grid.

We also promote the creation of
knowledge capital and thought leadership through the Accenture Institute for High Performance. In addition, we spend a significant portion of our research and development resources directly through our operating groups and our consulting,
technology and outsourcing capabilities to develop market-ready solutions for our clients.

Employees

Our most important asset is our people. The diverse and global makeup of our workforce enables us to serve our diverse and global client
base. We are deeply committed to the continued development of our employees, who receive significant and focused technical, functional, industry, managerial and leadership skill development and training appropriate for their roles and levels within
our company throughout their careers with us. We seek to reinforce our employees’ commitments to our clients, culture and values through a comprehensive performance management system and a career philosophy that rewards both individual
performance and teamwork. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces our owner-operator culture and the collaboration, motivation, alignment of interests and sense of ownership and reward that this culture has fostered.

As of August 31, 2010, we had approximately 204,000 employees worldwide.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing global
marketplace and compete with a variety of organizations that offer services competitive with those we offer. We compete with a variety of companies, including:



•Off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India or China, that offer services similar to those we offer, often at highly
competitive prices and on more aggressive terms;



•Large multinational providers, including the service arms of large global technology providers (hardware and software), that offer some or all of the
services that we do;







•Niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area,
including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models; and



•Accounting firms that are expanding or re-emphasizing their provision of some consulting services, including through acquisitions.

In addition, a client may choose to use its own resources rather than engage an outside firm for the types
of services we provide.

Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies, medium-sized
companies, governments, government agencies and other enterprises. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the industries in which we compete include:



•skills and capabilities of people;



•innovative service and product offerings;



•ability to add business value and improve performance;



•reputation and client references;



•price;



•scope of services;



•service delivery approach;



•technical and industry expertise;



•quality of services and solutions;



•ability to deliver results reliably and on a timely basis;



•availability of appropriate resources; and



•global reach and scale.

Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis.

Intellectual Property

Accenture provides value to its clients based in part on a differentiated range of proprietary inventions, methodologies,
software, reusable knowledge capital, and other intellectual property. Accenture recognizes the increasing value of intellectual property in the marketplace and vigorously creates, harvests, and protects this intellectual property. We leverage
patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property. We have also established policies to respect the intellectual property rights of third parties, such as Accenture’s
clients, partners, and others.

As of August 31, 2010, Accenture had more than 2,400 patent applications pending in the
United States and other jurisdictions and had been issued over 470 U.S. patents and over 380 non-U.S. patents. Some examples of technology areas covered by Accenture’s patent and patent application portfolio are: business analytics, finance
industry solutions, government solutions, insurance industry solutions, interactive display and user experience technology, knowledge management and knowledge transfer tools, location-based services and information filtering, price and auction
prediction methodologies, smart grid electric delivery technologies, and web site analytics.







Organizational Structure

On September 1, 2009, Accenture Ltd completed a transaction in which Accenture plc, organized in Ireland, became the parent holding company of Accenture. This transaction is described below under
“History.”

Accenture plc is an Irish public limited company with no material assets other than Class I common
shares in its subsidiary, Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by shares (“Accenture SCA”). Accenture plc’s only business is to hold these shares. Accenture plc owns a majority voting interest in Accenture SCA. As the
general partner of Accenture SCA and as a result of Accenture plc’s majority voting interest in Accenture SCA, Accenture plc controls Accenture SCA’s management and operations and consolidates Accenture SCA’s results in its
Consolidated Financial Statements. We operate our business through subsidiaries of Accenture SCA. Accenture SCA generally reimburses Accenture plc for its expenses but does not pay Accenture plc any fees. Accenture plc was elected the general
partner of Accenture SCA in place of Accenture Ltd at the November 16, 2009 shareholder meeting of Accenture SCA.

History

Prior to our transition to a corporate structure in fiscal 2001, we operated as a series of related partnerships and
corporations under the control of our partners. In connection with our transition to a corporate structure, our partners generally exchanged all of their interests in these partnerships and corporations for Accenture Ltd Class A common shares
or, in the case of partners in certain countries, Accenture SCA Class I common shares or exchangeable shares issued by Accenture Canada Holdings Inc., an indirect subsidiary of Accenture SCA. Generally, partners who received Accenture SCA
Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares also received a corresponding number of Accenture Ltd Class X common shares, which entitled their holders to vote at Accenture Ltd shareholder meetings but did not
carry any economic rights. The combination of the Accenture Ltd Class X common shares and the Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares gave these partners substantially similar economic and
governance rights as holders of Accenture Ltd Class A common shares.

In fiscal 2005, we replaced the internal use of the
“partner” title with the more comprehensive “senior executive” title and applied the “senior executive” title to our highest-level employees, including those previously referred to as partners. However, for proper
context, we continue to use the term “partner” in certain situations and particularly when discussing our reorganization and the period prior to our incorporation.

On June 10, 2009, Accenture plc was incorporated in Ireland, as a public limited company, in order to effect moving the place of incorporation of our parent holding company from Bermuda to Ireland
(the “Transaction”). On August 5, 2009, the shareholders of Accenture Ltd, our predecessor holding company, voted in favor of the Transaction. The Transaction was subsequently completed on September 1, 2009, following approval
from the Supreme Court of Bermuda, at which time Accenture Ltd became a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture plc and Accenture plc became our parent holding company. In the Transaction, all of the outstanding Class A and Class X common shares
of Accenture Ltd were cancelled and Accenture plc issued Class A and Class X ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis to the holders of the cancelled Accenture Ltd Class A and Class X common shares, as applicable (and cash for any fractional
shares). Accenture Ltd was dissolved on December 29, 2009.

Class A ordinary shares of the Irish company, Accenture
plc, began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on September 1, 2009 under the symbol “ACN,” the same symbol under which Class A common shares of Accenture Ltd, its predecessor, were previously listed. Prior to
September 1, 2009, the effective date of the Transaction, Accenture plc was a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture Ltd and had no substantive operating activity.









The Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this report with respect to periods prior to September 1, 2009 reflect the consolidated operations of Accenture Ltd (the predecessor registrant of Accenture plc) and its subsidiaries. The Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this report reflect the ownership interests in Accenture SCA and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. held by certain of our current and former senior executives as noncontrolling interests. The noncontrolling ownership interests
percentage was 11% as of August 31, 2010.

Accenture plc Class A and Class X Ordinary Shares

Each Class A ordinary share and each Class X ordinary share of Accenture plc entitles its holder to one vote on all matters
submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture plc. A Class X ordinary share does not, however, entitle its holder to receive dividends or to receive payments upon a liquidation of Accenture plc. As described above under
“—History,” Class X ordinary shares generally provide the holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares with a vote at Accenture plc shareholder meetings that is equivalent to
the voting rights held by Accenture plc Class A common shareholders, while their economic rights consist of interests in Accenture SCA Class I common shares or in Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.

Under its memorandum and articles of association, Accenture plc may redeem, at its option, any Class X ordinary share for a
redemption price equal to the nominal value of the Class X ordinary share, or $0.0000225 per share. Accenture plc, as successor to Accenture Ltd, has separately agreed with the original holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and
Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares not to redeem any Class X ordinary share of such holder if the redemption would reduce the number of Class X ordinary shares held by that holder to a number that is less than the
number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares owned by that holder. Accenture plc will redeem Class X ordinary shares upon the redemption or exchange of Accenture SCA Class I
common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares so that the aggregate number of Class X ordinary shares outstanding at any time does not exceed the aggregate number of Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture
Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares outstanding. Class X ordinary shares are not transferable without the consent of Accenture plc.

A transfer of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares effected by transfer of a book-entry interest in The Depository Trust Company will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. Other transfers of Accenture
plc Class A ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the Class A ordinary shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer.

Accenture SCA Class I Common Shares

Only Accenture and our current and former senior executives and their permitted transferees hold Accenture SCA Class I common shares. Each Class I common share entitles its holder to one vote on
all matters submitted to the shareholders of Accenture SCA and entitles its holder to dividends and liquidation payments. As of October 12, 2010, Accenture holds a voting interest of approximately 89% of the aggregate outstanding Accenture SCA
Class I common shares entitled to vote, with the remaining 11% of the voting interest held by our current and former senior executives.

Accenture SCA is obligated, at the option of the holder, to redeem any outstanding Accenture SCA Class I common share at a redemption price per share generally equal to its current market value as
determined in accordance with Accenture SCA’s articles of association. Under Accenture SCA’s articles of association, the market value of a Class I common share that is not subject to transfer restrictions will be deemed to be equal
to (i) the average of the high and low sales prices of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other designated market on







de minimis

de minimis

“de minimis.”

“de minimis”

The effect of the proposed
amendment is to reduce such uncertainty by ensuring that the Valuation Ratio will remain fixed (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments) and therefore facilitate Accenture plc’s ability to acquire assets, including from third parties or
Accenture SCA, and incur liabilities without the need to consider adjusting the ratio used for determining the number of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares delivered in redemption of, or used to calculate the redemption price for, Class I
common shares. After giving effect to the amendment, the ratio shall (except in connection with certain transactions affecting the capital stock of Accenture plc) be one-to-one, such that one share of Accenture plc shall be delivered in redemption
or used to calculate the redemption price for each Class I common share of Accenture SCA. Accenture plc and Accenture SCA believe that eliminating this provision at this time will provide Accenture plc with greater flexibility to create a more
efficient corporate structure, including by acquiring assets from Accenture SCA, and otherwise engage in transactions that will







promote shareholder value. If Accenture plc acquires assets from Accenture SCA, Accenture SCA will need to determine the relative values of the acquired assets and the assets remaining at
Accenture SCA. This will expose the Limited Shareholders to the risk that if these determinations do not accurately reflect the current or future values of the assets, the value of the Limited Shareholders interest in Accenture SCA could be
adversely affected. However, this risk will be mitigated because the Limited Shareholders will continue to enjoy the benefit of their redemption rights based on a fixed one-to-one ratio for Accenture plc shares, which will allow them to share in the
value of the assets that had been acquired from Accenture SCA.

Except in the case of a redemption of Class I common
shares or a transfer of Class I common shares to Accenture plc or one of its subsidiaries, Accenture SCA’s articles of association provide that Accenture SCA Class I common shares may be transferred only with the consent of the
general partner of Accenture SCA. In addition, all holders of Class I common shares (except Accenture) are precluded from having their shares redeemed by Accenture SCA or transferred to Accenture SCA, Accenture plc or a subsidiary of Accenture
plc at any time or during any period when Accenture SCA determines, based on the advice of counsel, that there is material non-public information that may affect the average price per share of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares, if the
redemption would be prohibited by applicable law, during an underwritten offering due to an underwriters lock-up or during the period from the announcement of a tender offer by Accenture SCA or its affiliates for Accenture SCA Class I common
shares until the expiration of ten business days after the termination of the tender offer (other than to tender the holder’s Accenture SCA Class I common shares in the tender offer).

Accenture SCA Class II and Class III Common Shares

On November 16, 2009, the shareholders of Accenture SCA approved amendments to Accenture SCA’s articles of association pursuant to which all of the Class II common shares and Class III common
shares of Accenture SCA, which were all held by Accenture, were reclassified into Class I common shares with the same rights as the Class I common shares that existed prior to November 16, 2009, as described above under “—Accenture
SCA Class I Common Shares,” including being entitled to the payment of cash dividends. This amendment had no effect on the relative economic rights of Accenture plc or the other holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares.

Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. Exchangeable Shares

Holders of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares may exchange their shares for Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares at any time on a one-for-one basis. Accenture may, at its option,
satisfy this exchange with cash at a price per share generally equal to the market price of an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share at the time of the exchange. Each exchangeable share of Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. entitles its holder to
receive distributions equal to any distributions to which an Accenture plc Class A ordinary share entitles its holder. The exchange of all of the outstanding Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares for Accenture plc Class A
ordinary shares would not have a material impact on the equity ownership position of Accenture or the other shareholders of Accenture SCA.



