Item 1A.Risk
    Factors



There are various risks associated with the operations of DTE
    Energy’s utility and non-utility businesses. To provide a
    framework to understand the operating environment of DTE Energy,
    we are providing a brief explanation of the more significant
    risks associated with our businesses. Although we have tried to
    identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in
    the future. Each of the following risks could affect our
    performance.



Regional and national economic conditions can have an
    unfavorable impact on us.Our utility and
    non-utility businesses follow the economic cycles of the
    customers we serve. Our utilities and certain non-utility
    businesses provide services to the domestic automotive and steel
    industries which have undergone considerable financial distress,
    exacerbating the decline in regional economic conditions. Should
    national or regional economic conditions further decline,
    reduced volumes of electricity and gas, and demand for energy
    services we supply, collections of accounts receivable and
    potentially higher levels of lost or stolen gas will result in
    decreased earnings and cash flow.



Adverse changes in our credit ratings may negatively affect
    us.Regional and national economic
    conditions, increased scrutiny of the energy industry and
    regulatory changes, as well as changes in our economic
    performance, could result in credit agencies reexamining our
    credit rating. While credit ratings reflect the opinions of the
    credit agencies issuing such ratings and may not necessarily
    reflect actual performance, a downgrade in our credit rating
    below investment grade could restrict or discontinue our ability
    to access capital markets and could result in an increase in our
    borrowing costs, a reduced level of capital expenditures and
    could impact future earnings and cash flows. In addition, a
    reduction in credit rating may





require us to post collateral related to various physical or
    financially settled contracts for the purchase of energy-related
    commodities, products and services, which could impact our
    liquidity.



Our ability to access capital markets is
    important.Our ability to access capital markets
    is important to operate our businesses. In the past, turmoil in
    credit markets has constrained, and may again in the future
    constrain, our ability as well as the ability of our
    subsidiaries to issue new debt, including commercial paper, and
    refinance existing debt at reasonable interest rates. In
    addition, the level of borrowing by other energy companies and
    the market as a whole could limit our access to capital markets.
    We have substantial amounts of credit facilities that expire in
    2010. We intend to seek to renew the facilities on or before the
    expiration dates. However, we cannot predict the outcome of
    these efforts, which could result in a decrease in amounts
    availableand/oran
    increase in our borrowing costs and negatively impact our
    financial performance.



Poor investment performance of pension and other
    postretirement benefit plan holdings and other factors impacting
    benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and
    results of operations.



If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to
    record a charge to earnings.We annually review
    the carrying value of goodwill associated with acquisitions made
    by the Company for impairment. Factors that may be considered
    for purposes of this analysis include any change in
    circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill
    may not be recoverable such as a decline in stock price and
    market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth
    rates in our industry. We cannot predict the timing, strength or
    duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent recovery,
    worldwide or in the economy or markets in which we operate,
    however, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that
    the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, the
    Company may take a non-cash impairment charge, which could
    potentially materially impact our results of operations and
    financial position.



Our participation in energy trading markets subjects us to
    risk.Events in the energy trading industry have
    increased the level of scrutiny on the energy trading business
    and the energy industry as a whole. In certain situations we may
    be required to post collateral to support trading operations,
    which could be substantial. If access to liquidity to support
    trading activities is curtailed, we could experience decreased
    earnings potential and cash flows. Energy trading activities
    take place in volatile markets and expose us to risks related to
    commodity price movements. We routinely have speculative trading
    positions in the market, within strict policy guidelines we set,
    resulting from the management of our business portfolio. To the
    extent speculative trading positions exist, fluctuating
    commodity prices can improve or diminish our financial results
    and financial position. We manage our exposure by establishing
    and enforcing strict risk limits and risk management procedures.
    During periods of extreme volatility, these risk limits and risk
    management procedures may not work as planned and cannot
    eliminate all risks associated with these activities. As a
    result, we cannot predict the impact that our energy trading and
    risk management decisions may have on our business, operating
    results or financial position.





We are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom we
    do business.Adverse economic conditions
    affecting, or financial difficulties of, counterparties with
    whom we do business could impair the ability of these
    counterparties to pay for our services or fulfill their
    contractual obligations, or cause them to delay such payments or
    obligations. We depend on these counterparties to remit payments
    on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could
    adversely affect our cash flows, financial position, or results
    of operations.



We are subject to rate regulation.Electric
    and gas rates for our utilities are set by the MPSC and the FERC
    and cannot be increased without regulatory authorization. We may
    be negatively impacted by new regulations or interpretations by
    the MPSC, the FERC or other regulatory bodies. Our ability to
    recover costs may be impacted by the time lag between the
    incurrence of costs and the recovery of the costs in
    customers’ rates. Our regulators also may decide to
    disallow recovery of certain costs in customers’ rates if
    they determine that those costs do not meet the standards for
    recovery under our governing laws and regulations. The State of
    Michigan will elect a new governor and legislature in 2010 and
    we cannot predict the outcome of that election. We cannot
    predict whether election results or changes in political
    conditions will affect the regulations or interpretations
    affecting our utilities. New legislation, regulations or
    interpretations could change how our business operates, impact
    our ability to recover costs through rate increases or require
    us to incur additional expenses.



We may be required to refund amounts we collect under
    self-implemented rates.Michigan law allows our
    utilities to self-implement rate changes six months after a rate
    filing, subject to certain limitations. However, if the final
    rate case order provides for lower rates than we have
    self-implemented, we must refund the difference, with interest.
    We have self-implemented rates in the past and have been ordered
    to make refunds to customers. Our financial performance may be
    negatively affected if the MPSC sets lower rates in future rate
    cases than those we have self-implemented, thereby requiring us
    to issue refunds. We cannot predict what rates an MPSC order
    will adopt in future rate cases.



Michigan’s electric Customer Choice program could
    negatively impact our financial performance.



Weather significantly affects
    operations.Deviations from normal hot and cold
    weather conditions affect our earnings and cash flow. Mild
    temperatures can result in decreased utilization of our assets,
    lowering income and cash flow. Ice storms, tornadoes, or high
    winds can damage the electric distribution system infrastructure
    and require us to perform emergency repairs and incur material
    unplanned expenses. The expenses of storm restoration efforts
    may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process.



Operation of a nuclear facility subjects us to
    risk.Ownership of an operating nuclear
    generating plant subjects us to significant additional risks.
    These risks include, among others, plant security, environmental
    regulation and remediation, and operational factors that can
    significantly impact the performance and cost of operating a
    nuclear facility. While we maintain insurance for various
    nuclear-related risks, there can be no assurances that such
    insurance will be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of
    an accident or business interruption at our nuclear generating
    plant, which may affect our financial performance.



Construction and capital improvements to our power facilities
    subject us to risk.We are managing ongoing and
    planning future significant construction and capital improvement
    projects at multiple power





generation and distribution facilities. Many factors that could
    cause delay or increased prices for these complex projects are
    beyond our control, including the cost of materials and labor,
    subcontractor performance, timing and issuance of necessary
    permits, construction disputes and weather conditions. Failure
    to complete these projects on schedule and on budget for any
    reason could adversely affect our financial performance and
    operations at the affected facilities.



The supplyand/orprice
    of energy commoditiesand/orrelated services may impact our financial
    results.We are dependent on coal for much of our
    electrical generating capacity. Price fluctuations, fuel supply
    disruptions and increases in transportation costs could have a
    negative impact on the amounts we charge our utility customers
    for electricity and on the profitability of our non-utility
    business. Our access to natural gas supplies is critical to
    ensure reliability of service for our utility gas customers. We
    have hedging strategies and regulatory recovery mechanisms in
    place to mitigate negative fluctuations in commodity supply
    prices, but there can be no assurances that our financial
    performance will not be negatively impacted by price
    fluctuations. The price of natural gas also impacts the market
    for our non-utility businesses that compete with utilities and
    alternative electric suppliers.



The supplyand/orprice
    other industrial raw and finished inputsand/orrelated services may impact our financial
    results.We are dependent on supplies of certain
    commodities, such as copper and limestone, among others, and
    industrial materials and services in order to maintainday-to-dayoperations and maintenance of our facilities. Price fluctuations
    or supply interruptions for these commodities and other items
    could have a negative impact on the amounts we charge our
    customers for our utility products and on the profitability of
    our non-utility businesses.



Unplanned power plant outages may be
    costly.Unforeseen maintenance may be required to
    safely produce electricity or comply with environmental
    regulations. As a result of unforeseen maintenance, we may be
    required to make spot market purchases of electricity that
    exceed our costs of generation. Our financial performance may be
    negatively affected if we are unable to recover such increased
    costs.



Our estimates of gas reserves are subject to
    change.



Our ability to utilize production tax credits may be
    limited.To reduce U.S. dependence on
    imported oil, the Internal Revenue Code provides production tax
    credits as an incentive for taxpayers to produce fuels and
    electricity from alternative sources. We have generated
    production tax credits from synfuel, coke production, landfill
    gas recovery, biomass fired electric generation, reduced
    emission fuel, steel industry fuel and gas production
    operations. We have received favorable private letter rulings on
    all of the synfuel facilities. All production tax credits taken
    after 2006 are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service
    (IRS). If our production tax credits were disallowed in whole or
    in part as a result of an IRS audit, there could be additional
    tax liabilities owed for previously recognized tax credits that
    could significantly impact our earnings and cash flows. We have
    also provided certain guarantees and indemnities in conjunction
    with the sales of interests in the synfuel facilities.



We rely on cash flows from subsidiaries.DTE
    Energy is a holding company. Cash flows from our utility and
    non-utility subsidiaries are required to pay interest expenses
    and dividends on DTE Energy debt and





securities. Should a major subsidiary not be able to pay
    dividends or transfer cash flows to DTE Energy, our ability to
    pay interest and dividends would be restricted.



Environmental laws and liability may be
    costly.We are subject to numerous environmental
    regulations. These regulations govern air emissions, water
    quality, wastewater discharge and disposal of solid and
    hazardous waste. Compliance with these regulations can
    significantly increase capital spending, operating expenses and
    plant down times. These laws and regulations require us to seek
    a variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and
    other regulatory approvals. We could be required to install
    expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease
    activities based on these regulations. Additionally, we may
    become a responsible party for environmental cleanup at sites
    identified by a regulatory body. We cannot predict with
    certainty the amount and timing of future expenditures related
    to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating
    clean up costs. There is also uncertainty in quantifying
    liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and
    several liability on potentially responsible parties.



We may also incur liabilities as a result of potential future
    requirements to address climate change issues. Proposals for
    voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed
    both in the United States and worldwide to reduce greenhouse
    gases such as carbon dioxide, a by-product of burning fossil
    fuels. If increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions are
    implemented, the operations of our fossil-fuel generation assets
    and our unconventional gas production assets may be
    significantly impacted. Since there can be no assurances that
    environmental costs may be recovered through the regulatory
    process, our financial performance may be negatively impacted as
    a result of environmental matters.



Renewable portfolio standards and energy efficiency programs
    may affect our business.We are subject to
    Michigan and potential future federal legislation and regulation
    requiring us to secure sources of renewable energy. Under the
    current Michigan legislation we will be required in the future
    to provide a specified percentage of our power from Michigan
    renewable energy sources. We are developing a strategy for
    complying with the existing state legislation, but we do not
    know what requirements may be added by federal legislation. We
    are actively engaged in developing renewable energy projects and
    identifying third party projects in which we can invest. We
    cannot predict the financial impact or costs associated with
    these future projects.



We are also required by Michigan legislation to implement energy
    efficiency measures and provide energy efficiency customer
    awareness and education programs. These requirements necessitate
    expenditures and implementation of these programs creates the
    risk of reducing our revenues as customers decrease their energy
    usage. We do not know how these programs will impact our
    business and future operating results.



Threats of terrorism or cyber attacks could affect our
    business.We may be threatened by problems such
    as computer viruses or terrorism that may disrupt our operations
    and could harm our operating results. Our industry requires the
    continued operation of sophisticated information technology
    systems and network infrastructure. Despite our implementation
    of security measures, all of our technology systems are
    vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses,
    acts of war or terrorism and other causes. If our information
    technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in
    a timely way, we might be unable to fulfill critical business
    functions, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operating results, and financial condition.



In addition, our generation plants, gas pipeline and storage
    facilities and electrical distribution facilities in particular
    may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our
    ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy
    products. We have increased security as a result of past events
    and we may be required by our regulators or by the future
    terrorist threat environment to make investments in security
    that we cannot currently predict.



We may not be fully covered by insurance.We
    have a comprehensive insurance program in place to provide
    coverage for various types of risks, including catastrophic
    damage as a result of acts of God, terrorism or a combination of
    other significant unforeseen events that could impact our
    operations. Economic losses might not be covered in full by
    insurance or our insurers may be unable to meet contractual
    obligations.



Failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable
    information could adversely affect us.In
    connection with our business we collect and retain personally
    identifiable information of our customers,





shareholders and employees. Our customers, shareholders and
    employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal
    information, and the United States regulatory environment
    surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly
    demanding. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of
    customer, shareholder, employee or DTE Energy data by cybercrime
    or otherwise could adversely impact our reputation and could
    result in significant costs, fines and litigation.



Benefits of continuous improvement initiatives could be less
    than we expect.We have a continuous improvement
    program that is expected to result in significant cost savings.
    Actual results achieved through this program could be less than
    our expectations.



A work interruption may adversely affect
    us.Unions represent approximately 5,000 of our
    employees. A union choosing to strike would have an impact on
    our business. Contracts with several of our unions, including
    our contract with our largest union, representing about 3,800 of
    our employees, expire on different dates throughout 2010. In
    addition, our contracts with unions representing two small
    groups of employees expired on December 31, 2009 and
    another union is currently negotiating its first contract. We
    cannot predict the outcome of any of these contract
    negotiations, some of which have not yet commenced. We are
    unable to predict the effect a work stoppage would have on our
    costs of operation and financial performance.



Failure to retain and attract key executive officers and
    other skilled professional and technical employees could have an
    adverse effect on our operations.Our business is
    dependent on our ability to recruit, retain, and motivate
    employees. Competition for skilled employees in some areas is
    high and the inability to retain and attract these employees
    could adversely affect our business and future operating results.



