Item 1.Business

General

Starbucks is the premier roaster and retailer of specialty coffee in the world, operating in more than 50 countries.
Starbucks Corporation was formed in 1985 and its common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) under the symbol “SBUX.” Starbucks purchases and roasts high-quality whole bean coffees and sells them, along with
handcrafted coffee and tea beverages and a variety of fresh food items, through company-operated retail stores. We also sell coffee and tea products and license our trademarks through other channels such as licensed retail stores and, through
certain of our licensees and equity investees, we produce and sell a variety of ready-to-drink beverages. All channels outside the company-operated retail stores are collectively known as specialty operations. In addition to our flagship Starbucks
brand, our portfolio includes brands such as Tazo®Tea, Seattle’s Best Coffee®, and Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew.

Our objective is to maintain Starbucks standing
as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. To achieve this goal, we plan to continue disciplined expansion of our retail and licensed store base, primarily focused on growth in countries outside of the US. In addition, by
leveraging the experience gained through our traditional store model, we are offering consumers new coffee products in multiple forms, across new categories, and through diverse channels. Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments
related to coffee and the communities we do business in, as well as our focus on being an employer of choice, are also key complements to our business strategies.

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“10-K” or “Report”) for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2010 (“fiscal 2010”) Starbucks Corporation (together with its
subsidiaries) is referred to as “Starbucks,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”.

Segment
Financial Information

Starbucks has three reportable operating segments: United States (“US”), International, and Global
Consumer Products Group (“CPG”). In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, we changed the composition of our reportable segments by creating a Seattle’s Best Coffee operating segment and reporting it with our unallocated corporate
expenses and Digital Ventures in “Other”. Financial information for Seattle’s Best Coffee was previously reported within the US, International, and CPG segments. This change reflects the culmination of internal management and
reporting realignments and the expected development of the Seattle’s Best Coffee business. Segment information for all prior periods presented has been revised to reflect this change. Each of the segments provided the following percentage of
total net revenues for fiscal year fiscal 2010: US (71%), International (21%), CPG (7%) and Other (1%).

The US and
International segments both include company-operated retail stores and certain components of specialty operations. Specialty operations within the US include licensed retail stores. International specialty operations include retail store licensing
operations in nearly 40 countries and foodservice accounts primarily in Canada and the United Kingdom (“UK”). Our International segment’s largest markets, based on number of company-operated and licensed retail stores, are Canada,
Japan and the UK. The CPG segment includes packaged coffee and tea, Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew and other branded
products sold worldwide through channels such as grocery stores, warehouse clubs and convenience stores, and US foodservice accounts. CPG operates a significant portion of its business through licensing arrangements and a joint venture with a large
consumer products business partner. This operating model leverages the business partners’ existing infrastructures and, as a result, our CPG segment reflects relatively lower revenues, a modest cost structure, and a resulting higher operating
margin, compared to Starbucks US and International reporting segments, which consist primarily of retail stores.

Financial information about
Starbucks segments is included in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this 10-K.







Revenue Components

We generate our revenues through company-operated retail stores and our specialty operations. Specialty operations include retail stores licensed by local business partners, packaged coffee and tea sold
through licensees in grocery and warehouse club stores, license arrangements with business partners to use our brands on various products, and arrangements with foodservice companies that service a variety of locations outside our retail store
footprint.

Company-operated and Licensed Retail Store Summary as of October 3, 2010



USAs a % of 
TotalUS StoresInternationalAs a % of 
TotalInternationalStoresTotalAs a % 
ofTotal StoresCompany-operated stores6,70760%2,12637%8,83352%Licensed stores4,42440%3,60163%8,02548%Total11,131100%5,727100%16,858100%

The mix of company-operated versus licensed stores in a given market will vary based on several factors, including
the ability to access desirable local retail space, the complexity and expected ultimate size of the market for Starbucks, and the ability to leverage the support infrastructure in an existing geographic region.

Company-operated Retail Stores

Revenue
from company-operated retail stores accounted for 84% of total net revenues during fiscal 2010. Our retail objective is to be the leading retailer and brand of coffee in each of our target markets by selling the finest quality coffee and related
products, and by providing each customer a uniqueStarbucks Experience. TheStarbucks Experienceis built upon superior customer service as well as clean and well-maintained company-operated retail stores that reflect the personalities
of the communities in which they operate, thereby building a high degree of customer loyalty.

Our strategy for expanding our global retail
business is to increase our market share in a disciplined manner, by selectively opening additional stores in existing markets, opening stores in new markets, and increasing sales in existing stores, to support our long term strategic objectives.
Store growth in specific existing markets will vary due to many factors, including the maturity of the market.

The following is a summary of
total company-operated retail store data for the periods indicated:



Net Stores Opened(Closed) During theFiscal Year Ended(1)Stores Open as ofOct 3, 2010Sep 27, 2009Oct 3, 2010Sep 27, 2009US(57)(474)6,7076,764International:Canada2444799775United Kingdom(65)2601666China2913220191Germany(2)13142144Thailand24133131Other(2)(3)27231234Total International(15)1032,1262,141Total company-operated(72)(371)8,8338,905





(1)Store openings are
reported net of closures. In the US, 13 and 121 company-operated stores were opened during 2010 and 2009, respectively, and 70 and 595 stores were closed during 2010 and 2009, respectively.







Internationally, 97 and 167 company-operated stores were opened during 2010 and 2009, respectively, and 112 and 64 stores were closed during 2010 and 2009, respectively. As described in more
detail in Management’s Discussion and Analysis in this 10-K, we took a number of actions in fiscal 2008 and 2009 to rationalize the size of our global company-operated store portfolio. Nearly all of the stores related to these actions have been
closed as of the end of fiscal 2010.



(2)Store data has
been adjusted for the fiscal 2010 acquisition of the France and Brazil operations by reclassifying historical information from licensed stores to company-operated stores.

Starbucks retail stores are typically located in high-traffic, high-visibility locations. Our ability to vary the size and format of our stores allows us to locate them in or near a variety of settings,
including downtown and suburban retail centers, office buildings, university campuses, and in select rural and off-highway locations. To provide a greater degree of access and convenience for non-pedestrian customers, we continue to selectively
expand development of drive-thru retail stores.

Starbucks stores offer a choice of regular and decaffeinated coffee
beverages, a broad selection of Italian-style espresso beverages, cold blended beverages, iced shaken refreshment beverages, a selection of premium teas, distinctively packaged roasted whole bean coffees, and a variety of Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew soluble coffees. Starbucks stores also offer a variety of fresh food items, including selections focusing
on high-quality ingredients, nutritional value and great flavor. Food items include pastries, prepared breakfast and lunch sandwiches, oatmeal and salads, as well as juices, sodas, and bottled water. We continue to expand the food warming program in
the US and Canada, with close to 90 % of the stores in these markets providing warm food items as of the end of fiscal 2010. A focused selection of beverage-making equipment and accessories are also sold in the stores. Each Starbucks store
varies its product mix depending upon the size of the store and its location. In company-operated Starbucks stores in the US, we provide customers free access to wireless internet.

Retail sales mix by product type for company-operated stores:



Fiscal Year EndedOct 3, 2010Sep 27, 2009Sep 28, 2008Beverages75%76%76%Food19%18%17%Whole bean and soluble coffees4%3%3%Coffee-making equipment and other merchandise2%3%4%Total100%100%100%

Starbucks Card

The Starbucks Card program is designed to increase customer loyalty and the frequency of store visits by cardholders. Since January 2010, Starbucks customers in the US have earned free beverages through
the My Starbucks Rewards program. Gold Level members earn a free drink after fifteen purchases at participating Starbucks stores. Members also receive free select syrups, milk options and refills on tea or brewed coffee during a store visit.
Starbucks Cards are accepted at all company-operated and most licensed stores in North America. The cards are also accepted at a number of international locations.

Specialty Operations

During fiscal 2010, specialty revenues accounted for 16% of total net
revenues. Our specialty operations strive to develop Starbucks brands outside the company-operated retail store environment through a number of channels. Starbucks strategy to reach customers where they work, travel, shop and dine includes
establishing and maintaining relationships with prominent third parties that share our values and commitment to quality. These relationships take various forms, including licensing arrangements, foodservice accounts and other initiatives related to
our core businesses. In certain situations, Starbucks has an equity ownership interest in licensee operations.







Licensing — Retail stores

Product sales to and royalty and license fee revenues from US and International licensed retail stores accounted for 50% of specialty revenues in fiscal 2010. In our licensed retail store operations, we
leverage the expertise of our local partners and share our operating and store development experience. Licensee partners provide improved, and at times the only, access to desirable retail space. Most licensees are prominent retailers with in-depth
market knowledge and access. As part of these arrangements, we receive royalties and license fees and sell coffee, tea and related products for resale in licensed locations. Employees working in licensed retail locations are required to follow our
detailed store operating procedures and attend training classes similar to those given to employees in company-operated stores. For our Seattle’s Best Coffee brand, we use various forms of licensing, including traditional franchising.

Starbucks total licensed retail stores by region and country at fiscal year end 2010 are as follows:



Asia PacificEurope/Middle East/AfricaAmericasJapan892Turkey137US4,424Greater China525UK102Canada274South Korea315United Arab Emirates95Mexico283Philippines168Spain75Other63Malaysia117Saudi Arabia69Indonesia85Kuwait66New Zealand39Greece60Switzerland47Russia37Other152Total2,141Total840Total5,044

In the US, 166 and 286 licensed stores were opened during 2010 and 2009, respectively, and 106 and 251 stores were closed
during 2010 and 2009, respectively. Internationally, 335 and 375 licensed stores were opened during 2010 and 2009, respectively, and 100 and 84 stores were closed during 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Licensing — Packaged coffee and tea

Revenues from licensed sales of packaged coffee and tea comprised 23% of specialty revenues in fiscal 2010. For over ten years through licensing relationships with Kraft Foods Global, Inc., we have sold a
selection of Starbucks and Seattle’s Best Coffee branded packaged coffees and Tazo®teas in grocery and
warehouse club stores throughout the US and to grocery stores in Canada, the UK and other European countries. Kraft has managed the distribution, marketing, advertising and promotion of these products.

We also sell packaged coffee and tea internationally directly to warehouse club stores, such as Costco Wholesale Corporation.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, Starbucks notified Kraft that we are discontinuing our licensing relationships. We intend to work closely with Kraft
to ensure an orderly transition.

Licensing — Branded products

The revenues from licensed branded products accounted for 4% of specialty revenues in fiscal 2010. We license the rights to produce and market Starbucks
and Seattle’s Best Coffee branded products through several partnerships both domestically and internationally. Significant licensing agreements include:



•The North American Coffee Partnership, a joint venture with the Pepsi-Cola Company in which Starbucks is a 50% equity investor, manufactures and
markets ready-to-drink beverages, including bottled Frappuccino®beverages, Starbucks DoubleShot®, and Seattle’s Best Coffee®ready-to-drink espresso beverages in the US and Canada;







•licensing agreements for the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of Starbucks Discoveries®, a ready-to-drink chilled cup coffee beverage, in Japan and South Korea;



•a licensing agreement with a partnership formed by Unilever and Pepsi-Cola Company for the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of Starbucks
super-premium Tazo®Tea ready-to-drink beverages in the US; and



•a licensing agreement with Unilever for the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of Starbucks®super-premium ice cream products in the US.

Foodservice

Revenues from foodservice accounts comprised 23% of
total specialty revenues in fiscal 2010. We sell whole bean and ground coffees, including the Starbucks and Seattle’s Best Coffee brands, as well as a selection of premium Tazo®teas, Starbucks VIA®Ready
Brew and other related products, to institutional foodservice companies that service business and industry, education, healthcare, office coffee distributors, hotels, restaurants, airlines and other retailers. We also sell our Seattle’s Best
Coffee®through arrangements with national accounts. The majority of the sales in this channel come through
national broadline distribution networks with SYSCO Corporation, US FoodserviceTM, and other distributors.

Product Supply

Starbucks is committed to selling only the finest whole bean coffees and coffee beverages. To ensure compliance with our rigorous coffee standards, we
control coffee purchasing, roasting and packaging, and the global distribution of coffee used in our operations. We purchase green coffee beans from multiple coffee-producing regions around the world and custom roast them to our exacting standards,
for our many blends and single origin coffees.

The price of coffee is subject to significant volatility. Although most coffee trades in the
commodity market, high-altitude arabica coffee of the quality sought by Starbucks tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium above commodity coffee prices. Both the premium and the “C” coffee commodity price depend upon
the supply and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, political and economic conditions. Price is also impacted by trading activities in the arabica coffee
futures market, including hedge funds and commodity index funds. In addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically
attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies.

To help ensure
sustainability and future supply of high-quality green coffees and to reinforce our leadership role in the coffee industry, Starbucks operates Farmer Support Centers in Costa Rica and Rwanda. The Farmer Support Centers are staffed with agronomists
and sustainability experts who work with coffee farming communities to promote best practices in coffee production designed to improve both coffee quality and yields.

We buy coffee using fixed-price and price-to-be-fixed purchase commitments, depending on market conditions, to secure an adequate supply of quality green coffee. Price-to-be-fixed contracts are purchase
commitments whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date at which the base “C” coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. For these types of
contracts, either Starbucks or the seller has the option to select a date on which to “fix” the base “C” coffee commodity price prior to the delivery date. Until prices are fixed, we estimate the total cost of these purchase
commitments. As of October 3, 2010, we had a total of $557 million in purchase commitments, of which $401 million represented the estimated cost of price-to-be-fixed contracts. All price-to-be-fixed contracts as of October 3, 2010
were at the Company’s option to fix the base “C” coffee commodity price component. Total purchase commitments, together with existing inventory, are expected to provide an adequate supply of green coffee through fiscal 2011.

We depend upon our relationships with coffee producers, outside trading companies and exporters for our supply of green coffee. We believe,
based on relationships established with our suppliers, the risk of non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote.







In addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to
support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. Starbucks highest volumes of dairy purchases are in the US, Canada and the UK. For these markets, we purchase substantially all of our fluid milk requirements from six dairy suppliers. We
believe, based on relationships established with these suppliers, that the risk of non-delivery of sufficient fluid milk to support these retail businesses is remote.

Products other than whole bean coffees and coffee beverages sold in Starbucks retail stores are obtained through a number of different channels. Beverage ingredients other than coffee and milk, including
leaf teas as well as our selection of ready-to-drink beverages, are purchased from several specialty suppliers, usually under long-term supply contracts. Food products, such as fresh pastries, breakfast sandwiches and lunch items, are purchased from
national, regional and local sources. We also purchase a broad range of paper and plastic products, such as cups and cutlery, from several companies to support the needs of our retail stores as well as our manufacturing and distribution operations.
We believe, based on relationships established with these suppliers and manufacturers, that the risk of non-delivery is remote.

Competition

Our primary competitors for
coffee beverage sales are quick-service restaurants and specialty coffee shops. In almost all markets in which we do business, there are numerous competitors in the specialty coffee beverage business. We believe that our customers choose among
specialty coffee retailers primarily on the basis of product quality, service and convenience, as well as price. We continue to experience direct competition from large competitors in the US quick-service restaurant sector and continue to face
competition from well-established companies in many international markets and in the US ready-to-drink coffee beverage market.

Our whole bean coffees, ground packaged coffees, Tazo®teas, and
Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew compete directly against specialty coffees and teas sold through supermarkets, club
stores and specialty retailers. Our whole bean coffees, coffee beverages, and Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew compete
indirectly against all other coffees on the market. Starbucks specialty operations face significant competition from established wholesale and mail order suppliers, some of whom have greater financial and marketing resources than we do.

Starbucks also faces competition from both restaurants and other specialty retailers for prime retail locations and qualified personnel to operate both
new and existing stores.

Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Domain Names

Starbucks owns and has applied to register numerous trademarks and service marks in the US and in many additional countries throughout
the world. Some of our trademarks, including Starbucks®, the Starbucks®logo, Seattle’s Best Coffee®, Frappuccino®, Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew and Tazo®are of material importance. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed
indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained.

We own numerous copyrights for items such as
product packaging, promotional materials, in-store graphics and training materials. We also hold patents on certain products, systems and designs. In addition, Starbucks has registered and maintains numerous Internet domain names, including
“Starbucks.com”, “Starbucks.net”, and “Seattlesbest.com.”

Research and Development

Our research and development teams are responsible for the technical development of food and beverage products and new equipment. We spent approximately
$9 million, $7 million and $7 million during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, on technical research and development activities, in addition to customary product testing and product and process improvements in all areas of its
business.







Seasonality and Quarterly Results

Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, including fluctuations resulting from the holiday season. Cash flows from operations are considerably higher in the first fiscal quarter than the
remainder of the year. This is largely driven by cash received as Starbucks Cards are purchased and loaded during the holiday season. Since revenues from the Starbucks Cards are recognized upon redemption and not when purchased, seasonal
fluctuations on the consolidated statements of earnings are much less pronounced. Quarterly results can be affected by the timing of the opening of new stores and the closing of existing stores. For these reasons, results for any quarter are not
necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.

Employees

Starbucks employed approximately 137,000 people worldwide as of October 3, 2010. In the US, Starbucks employed approximately
107,000 people, with 101,000 in company-operated retail stores and the remainder in administrative and regional offices, and store development, roasting and warehousing operations. Approximately 30,000 employees were employed outside of
the US, with 29,000 in company-operated retail stores and the remainder in regional support facilities and roasting and warehousing operations. The number of Starbucks employees represented by unions is not significant. We believe our current
relations with our employees are good.

Executive officers of the registrant



NameAgePositionHoward Schultz57chairman, president and chief executive officerCliff Burrows51president, Starbucks Coffee USJohn Culver50president, Starbucks Coffee InternationalJeff Hansberry46president, Global Consumer Products and FoodserviceMichelle Gass42president, Seattle’s Best CoffeeArthur Rubinfeld57president, Global DevelopmentAnnie Young-Scrivner41chief marketing officerTroy Alstead47chief financial officer and chief administrative officerPaula E. Boggs51executive vice president, general counsel and secretaryPeter D. Gibbons49executive vice president, Global Supply Chain OperationsKalen Holmes44executive vice president, Partner ResourcesStephen Gillett34executive vice president, chief information officer and GM Digital VenturesVivek Varma44executive vice president, Public Affairs

Howard Schultzis the founder of Starbucks and serves as the chairman, president and chief executive officer. Mr. Schultz has served as chairman of the board since Starbucks inception in 1985 and he resumed his role as president and chief executive
officer in January 2008. From June 2000 to February 2005, Mr. Schultz held the title of chief global strategist. From November 1985 to June 2000, he served as chief executive officer. From November 1985 to June 1994, Mr. Schultz also
served as president.

Cliff Burrowsjoined Starbucks in April 2001 and has served as president, Starbucks Coffee US since March 2008.
Mr. Burrows served as president, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) from April 2006 to March 2008. He served as vice president and managing director, UK prior to April 2006. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Burrows served in various
management positions with Habitat Designs Limited, a furniture and house wares retailer.

John Culverjoined Starbucks in August 2002
and has served as president, Starbucks Coffee International since December 2009. Mr. Culver served as executive vice president; president, Global Consumer Products, Foodservice







and Seattle’s Best Coffee from February 2009 to September 2009, and then as president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice from October 2009 to November 2009. He previously served as
senior vice president; president, Starbucks Coffee Asia Pacific from January 2007 to February 2009, and vice president; general manager, Foodservice from August 2002 to January 2007.

Jeff Hansberryjoined Starbucks in June 2010 as president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Hansberry served as vice president and general manager,
Popular BU for E. & J. Gallo Winery, a family-owned winery, from November 2008 to May 2010. From September 2007 to November 2008, Mr. Hansberry served as vice president and general manager, Value BU, and from April 2005 to August 2007,
he served as vice president and general manager Asia, for E. & J. Gallo Winery. Prior to E. & J. Gallo, Mr. Hansberry held various positions with Procter & Gamble.

Michelle Gassjoined Starbucks in 1996 and has served as the president, Seattle’s Best Coffee since September 2009. Ms. Gass served as senior vice president, Marketing and Category from
July 2008 to November 2008, and then as executive vice president, Marketing and Category from December 2008 to September 2009. Ms. Gass previously served as senior vice president, Global Strategy, Office of the ceo from January 2008 to July
2008, senior vice president, Global Product and Brand from August 2007 to January 2008, senior vice president, and U.S. Category Management from May 2004 to August 2007. Ms. Gass served in a number of other positions with Starbucks prior
to 2004.

Arthur Rubinfeldrejoined Starbucks in February 2008 as president, Global Development. Mr. Rubinfeld also serves as
president of AIRVISION LLC, an advisory firm specializing in brand positioning that he founded in June 2002. From March 2006 to February 2008, Mr. Rubinfeld served as executive vice president, Corporate Strategy and chief development officer at
Potbelly Sandwich Works. Prior to 2002, Mr. Rubinfeld held several positions in Store Development at Starbucks.

Annie Young-Scrivnerjoined Starbucks in September 2009 as chief marketing officer. Prior to joining Starbucks, Ms. Young-Scrivner served as Chief Marketing Officer and Vice President of Sales for Quaker Foods and Snacks, a division of PepsiCo, Inc. From
October 2006 to November 2008, she served as Region President of PepsiCo Foods for Greater China. From 2005 to 2006, Ms. Young-Scrivner served as Vice President of Sales for PepsiCo Beverages in Greater China. She also served in a number of
other leadership roles at PepsiCo prior to 2005.

Troy Alsteadjoined Starbucks in 1992 and has served as chief financial officer and
chief administrative officer since November 2008. Mr. Alstead previously served as chief operating officer, Starbucks Greater China from April 2008 to October 2008, senior vice president, Global Finance and Business Operations from August 2007
to April 2008, and senior vice president, Corporate Finance from September 2004 to August 2007. Mr. Alstead served in a number of other senior positions with Starbucks prior to 2004.

Paula E. Boggsjoined Starbucks in September 2002 as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary. Prior to joining Starbucks, Ms. Boggs served as vice president, legal, for
products, operations and information technology at Dell Computer Corporation from 1997 to 2002. From 1995 to 1997, Ms. Boggs was a partner with the law firm of Preston Gates & Ellis (now K&L Gates). Ms. Boggs served in several
roles at the Pentagon, White House and US Department of Justice between 1984 and 1995.

Peter D. Gibbonsjoined Starbucks in February
2007 and has served as executive vice president, Global Supply Chain Operations since July 2008. From February 2007 to July 2008, Mr. Gibbons served as senior vice president, Global Manufacturing Operations. From March 1999 to February 2007,
Mr. Gibbons was executive vice president, Supply Chain, of The Glidden Company, a subsidiary of ICI Americas, Inc.

Kalen Holmesjoined Starbucks in November 2009 as executive vice president, Partner Resources. Prior to joining Starbucks, Ms. Holmes served as HR General Manager for the Entertainment and Devices division at Microsoft Corporation, a worldwide provider
of software, services and solutions, from December 2007 to November 2009. From December 2005 to December 2007, Ms. Holmes was HR General Manager for Microsoft’s Server and Tools Division. From September 2003 to December 2005, she served as
HR General Manager for Microsoft’s Corporate Staff business unit.







Stephen Gillettjoined Starbucks in May 2008 and has served as executive vice president, chief
information officer and GM Digital Ventures since May 2010. From May 2008 to May 2010, Mr. Gillett served as senior vice president, chief information officer and general manager, Digital Ventures. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Gillett
was CIO and SVP, Engineering for Corbis, a digital media company, from May 2006 to May 2008. From December 2004 to May 2006, Mr. Gillett was Senior Director Engineering with Yahoo!, an internet destination and online media company.

Vivek Varmajoined Starbucks in September of 2008, and has served as executive vice president, Public Affairs since May 2010. From September 2008
to May 2010, Mr. Varma served as senior vice president, Public Affairs. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Varma was general manager of communications and public relations for the Platforms and Services Division of Microsoft Corporation, a
worldwide provider of software, services and solutions, from April 2006 to September 2008. From January 2002 to April 2006, Mr. Varma served in a number of other positions with Microsoft, including as senior director of corporate communications
and public relations in Microsoft’s Corporate Marketing Group.

There are no family relationships among any of our directors or executive
officers.

Global Responsibility

We are committed to being a deeply responsible company in the communities where we do business around the world. Our focus is on ethically sourcing high-quality coffee, reducing our environmental impacts
and contributing positively to communities. Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments are integral to our overall business strategy. As a result, we believe we deliver benefits to our stakeholders, including employees, business
partners, customers, suppliers, shareholders, community members and others. For an overview of Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments, please visit www.starbucks.com.

Available Information

Starbucks 10-K reports, along with all other reports and amendments
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://investor.starbucks.com or at www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably
practicable after these materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our corporate governance policies, code of ethics and Board committee charters and policies are also posted on the Investor Relations section of Starbucks website at
http://investor.starbucks.com. The information on our website is not part of this or any other report Starbucks files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.



