Item 1.Business

General

Starbucks is the premier roaster, marketer and retailer of specialty coffee in the world, operating in more than 50
countries. Formed in 1985, Starbucks Corporation’s common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) under the symbol “SBUX.” We purchase and roast high-quality whole bean coffees that we sell, along with
handcrafted coffee and tea beverages and a variety of fresh food items, through company-operated stores. We also sell a variety of coffee and tea products and license our trademarks through other channels such as licensed stores, grocery and
national foodservice accounts. In addition to our flagship Starbucks brand, our portfolio also includes Tazo®Tea, Seattle’s Best Coffee®, and Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew.

Our objective is to maintain Starbucks standing
as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. To achieve this goal, we are continuing the disciplined expansion of our store base, primarily focused on growth in countries outside of the US. In addition, by leveraging the
experience gained through our traditional store model, we continue to offer consumers new coffee products in multiple forms, across new categories, and through diverse channels. Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments related to
coffee and the communities we do business in, as well as our focus on being an employer of choice, are also key complements to our business strategies.

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“10-K” or “Report”) for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2011 (“fiscal 2011”), Starbucks Corporation (together with its
subsidiaries) is referred to as “Starbucks,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”.

Segment
Financial Information

Starbucks has three reportable operating segments: United States (“US”), International, and Global
Consumer Products Group (“CPG”). Our Seattle’s Best Coffee operating segment is reported in “Other” with our Digital Ventures business and unallocated corporate expenses that pertain to corporate administrative functions
that support our operating segments but are not specifically attributable to or managed by any segment and are not included in the reported financial results of the operating segments. Segment revenues as a percentage of total net revenues for
fiscal year 2011 were as follows: US (69%), International (22%), and CPG (7%). The Other category comprised 2% of total net revenues.

The US and International segments both include company-operated stores and licensed stores. The International segment also includes foodservice accounts primarily in Canada and the United Kingdom
(“UK”). Our International segment’s largest markets, based on number of company-operated and licensed stores, are Canada, Japan and the UK. The CPG segment includes packaged coffee and tea, Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew and other branded products sold worldwide through channels such as grocery stores, warehouse clubs and
convenience stores, and US foodservice accounts.

Financial information for Starbucks reportable operating segments and Other is included in
Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this 10-K.

Revenue Components

We generate our revenues through company-operated stores, licensed stores, consumer packaged goods and foodservice operations. Our consumer packaged goods
and foodservice operations include packaged coffee and tea sold in grocery and warehouse club stores, licensing arrangements with business partners to use our brands on various products, and arrangements with foodservice companies that support a
variety of locations outside our retail store footprint.







Company-operated and Licensed Store Summary as of October 2, 2011



USAs a% of TotalUS StoresInternationalAs a% of TotalInternationalStoresTotalAs a% ofTotal StoresCompany-operated stores6,70562%2,32637%9,03153%Licensed stores4,08238%3,89063%7,97247%Total10,787100%6,216100%17,003100%

The mix of company-operated versus licensed stores in a given market will vary based on several factors, including the
ability to access desirable local retail space, the complexity and expected ultimate size of the market for Starbucks, and the ability to leverage the support infrastructure in an existing geographic region.

Company-operated Stores

Revenue from
company-operated stores accounted for 82% of total net revenues during fiscal 2011. Our retail objective is to be the leading retailer and brand of coffee in each of our target markets by selling the finest quality coffee and related products, and
by providing each customer a uniqueStarbucks Experience. TheStarbucks Experienceis built upon superior customer service as well as clean and well-maintained company-operated stores that reflect the personalities of the communities
in which they operate, thereby building a high degree of customer loyalty.

Our strategy for expanding our global retail business is to
increase our market share in a disciplined manner, by selectively opening additional stores in new and existing markets, as well as increasing sales in existing stores, to support our long-term strategic objective to maintain Starbucks standing as
one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world. Store growth in specific existing markets will vary due to many factors, including the maturity of the market.

The following is a summary of total company-operated store data for the periods indicated:



Net Stores Opened(Closed) During theFiscal Year Ended(1)Stores Open as ofOct 2, 2011Oct 3, 2010Oct 2, 2011Oct 3, 2010US(2)(57)6,7056,707International:Canada3724836799United Kingdom6(65)607601China5829278220Germany8(2)150142Thailand82141133Other27(3)314287Total International144(15)2,3262,182Total company-operated142(72)9,0318,889





(1)Store openings are reported net of closures. In the US, 49 and 13 company-operated stores were opened during 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 51 and 70
stores were closed during 2011 and 2010, respectively. Internationally, 180 and 97 company-operated stores were opened during 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 36 and 112 stores were closed during 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Starbucks retail stores are typically located in high-traffic, high-visibility locations. Our ability to vary the size and
format of our stores allows us to locate them in or near a variety of settings, including downtown and suburban retail centers, office buildings, university campuses, and in select rural and off-highway locations. To provide a greater degree of
access and convenience for non-pedestrian customers, we continue to selectively expand development of drive-thru retail stores.







Starbucks stores offer a choice of regular and decaffeinated coffee beverages, a broad
selection of Italian-style espresso beverages, cold blended beverages, iced shaken refreshment beverages, a selection of premium teas, distinctively packaged roasted whole bean coffees, and a variety of Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew soluble coffees. Starbucks stores also offer a variety of fresh food items, including selections focusing
on high-quality ingredients, nutritional value and great flavor. Food items include pastries, prepared breakfast and lunch sandwiches, oatmeal and salads, as well as juices and bottled water. In addition to being offered in our US and Canada stores,
during fiscal 2011, we expanded our food warming program into our stores in China, with over 90% of the stores in these markets providing warm food items as of the end of fiscal 2011. A focused selection of beverage-making equipment and accessories
are also sold in the stores. Each Starbucks store varies its product mix depending upon the size of the store and its location. To compliment the in-store experience, in company-operated Starbucks stores in the US, we also provide customers free
access to wireless internet.

Retail sales mix by product type for company-operated stores:



Fiscal Year EndedOct 2, 2011Oct 3, 2010Sep 27, 2009Beverages75%75%76%Food19%19%18%Whole bean and soluble coffees4%4%3%Coffee-making equipment and other merchandise2%2%3%Total100%100%100%

Starbucks Card

The Starbucks Card program is designed to increase customer loyalty and the frequency of store visits by registered cardholders. Starbucks customers in the US can earn free beverages through the My
Starbucks Rewards®program. Gold Level members earn a free drink after fifteen purchases at participating
Starbucks stores. Members also receive free select syrups, milk options and refills on tea or brewed coffee during a store visit. Starbucks Cards are accepted at all company-operated and most licensed stores in North America. The cards are also
accepted at a number of international locations.

Licensed Stores

Product sales to and royalty and license fee revenues from US and International licensed stores accounted for 9% of total revenues in fiscal 2011. In our licensed store operations, we leverage the
expertise of our local partners and share our operating and store development experience. Licensees provide improved, and at times the only, access to desirable retail space. Most licensees are prominent retailers with in-depth market knowledge and
access. As part of these arrangements, we receive royalties and license fees and sell coffee, tea and related products for resale in licensed locations. Employees working in licensed retail locations are required to follow our detailed store
operating procedures and attend training classes similar to those given to employees in company-operated stores. For our Seattle’s Best Coffee brand, we use various forms of licensing, including traditional franchising.







Starbucks total licensed stores by region and country as of October 2, 2011 are as follows:



Asia PacificEurope/Middle East/AfricaAmericasJapan935Turkey153US4,082South Korea367UK128Mexico318Taiwan249United Arab Emirates94Canada284China218Spain75Other92Philippines183Kuwait67Malaysia121Saudi Arabia65Hong Kong117Greece59Indonesia109Russia52New Zealand35Other169Total2,334Total862Total4,776

In the US, 215 and 166 licensed stores were opened during 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 557 and 106 licensed stores
were closed during 2011 and 2010, respectively. The 557 licensed stores that were closed in the US during fiscal 2011 include 475 Seattle’s Best Coffee locations in Borders Bookstores. Internationally, 455 and 335 licensed stores were opened
during 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 110 and 100 licensed stores were closed during 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Consumer Packaged
Goods

Consumer packaged goods includes both domestic and international sales of packaged coffee and tea to grocery and
warehouse club stores. It also includes revenues from product sales to and licensing revenues from manufacturers that produce and market Starbucks and Seattle’s Best Coffee branded products through licensing agreements. Revenues from sales of
packaged coffee and tea comprised 4% of total net revenues in fiscal 2011. In prior years through the first several months of fiscal 2011, we sold a selection of Starbucks and Seattle’s Best Coffee branded packaged coffees and Tazo®teas in grocery and warehouse club stores throughout the US and to grocery stores in Canada, the UK and other
European countries through a distribution arrangement with Kraft Foods Global, Inc. Kraft managed the distribution, marketing, advertising and promotion of these products as a part of that arrangement. During fiscal 2011, we successfully
transitioned these businesses, including the marketing, advertising, and promotion of these products, from our previous distribution arrangement with Kraft and began selling these products directly to the grocery and warehouse club stores. We also
sell packaged coffee and tea directly to warehouse club stores in international markets.

Revenues from licensing our branded products
accounted for 1% of total net revenues in fiscal 2011. We license the rights to produce and market Starbucks and Seattle’s Best Coffee branded products through several partnerships both domestically and internationally. We also sell ingredients
to these licensees to manufacturer our branded products. Significant licensing agreements include:



•The North American Coffee Partnership, a joint venture with the Pepsi-Cola Company in which Starbucks is a 50% equity investor, manufactures and
markets ready-to-drink beverages, including bottled Frappuccino®beverages and Starbucks DoubleShot®espresso drink and Seattle’s Best Coffee®ready-to-drink espresso beverages in the US and Canada;



•licensing agreements with Arla, Suntory, and Dong Suh Foods for the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of Starbucks Discoveries®, a ready-to-drink chilled cup coffee beverage, in Europe, Japan and South Korea, respectively;



•a licensing agreement with a partnership formed by Unilever and Pepsi-Cola Company for the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of Starbucks
super-premium Tazo®Tea beverages in the US; and



•a licensing agreement with Unilever for the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of Starbucks®super-premium ice cream products in the US.







Foodservice

Revenues from foodservice accounts comprised 4% of total net revenues in fiscal 2011. We sell Starbucks®and Seattle’s Best
Coffee®whole bean and ground coffees, a selection of premium Tazo®teas, Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew, and other related products to institutional foodservice companies that service business and industry, education, healthcare, office coffee distributors,
hotels, restaurants, airlines and other retailers. We also sell our Seattle’s Best Coffee®through
arrangements with national accounts. The majority of the sales in this channel come through national broadline distribution networks with SYSCO Corporation, US FoodserviceTM, and other distributors.

Product Supply

Starbucks is committed to selling only the finest whole bean coffees and
coffee beverages. To ensure compliance with our rigorous coffee standards, we control coffee purchasing, roasting and packaging, and the global distribution of coffee used in our operations. We purchase green coffee beans from multiple
coffee-producing regions around the world and custom roast them to our exacting standards, for our many blends and single origin coffees.

The
price of coffee is subject to significant volatility. Although most coffee trades in the commodity market, high-altitude arabica coffee of the quality sought by Starbucks tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the “C”
coffee commodity coffee price. Both the premium and the commodity price depend upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, political and
economic conditions. Price is also impacted by trading activities in the arabica coffee futures market, including hedge funds and commodity index funds. In addition, green coffee prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the
future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies.

We buy coffee using fixed-price and price-to-be-fixed purchase commitments, depending on market conditions, to secure an adequate supply of quality green
coffee. Price-to-be-fixed contracts are purchase commitments whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period, and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date at which the base “C” coffee commodity price component will be fixed has
not yet been established. For these types of contracts, either Starbucks or the seller has the option to select a date on which to “fix” the base “C” coffee commodity price prior to the delivery date. Until prices are fixed, we
estimate the total cost of these purchase commitments. As of October 2, 2011, we had a total of $1.0 billion in purchase commitments, of which $193 million represented the estimated cost of price-to-be-fixed contracts. All price-to-be-fixed
contracts as of October 2, 2011 were at the Company’s option to fix the base “C” coffee commodity price component. Total purchase commitments, together with existing inventory, are expected to provide an adequate supply of green
coffee through fiscal 2012.

We depend upon our relationships with coffee producers, outside trading companies and exporters for our supply of
green coffee. We believe, based on relationships established with our suppliers, the risk of non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote.

To help ensure sustainability and future supply of high-quality green coffees and to reinforce our leadership role in the coffee industry, Starbucks operates Farmer Support Centers in Costa Rica and
Rwanda, among other locations. The Farmer Support Centers are staffed with agronomists and sustainability experts who work with coffee farming communities to promote best practices in coffee production designed to improve both coffee quality and
yields.

In addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our
company-operated retail stores. Our highest volumes of dairy purchases are in the US, Canada and the UK. For these markets, we purchase substantially all of our fluid milk requirements from seven dairy suppliers. We believe, based on relationships
established with these suppliers, that the risk of non-delivery of sufficient fluid milk to support these retail businesses is remote.

Products other than whole bean coffees and coffee beverages sold in Starbucks stores are obtained through a number of different channels. Beverage
ingredients other than coffee and milk, including leaf teas as well as our selection of







ready-to-drink beverages, are purchased from several specialty suppliers, usually under long-term supply contracts. Food products, such as fresh pastries, breakfast sandwiches and lunch items,
are purchased from national, regional and local sources. We also purchase a broad range of paper and plastic products, such as cups and cutlery, from several companies to support the needs of our retail stores as well as our manufacturing and
distribution operations. We believe, based on relationships established with these suppliers and manufacturers, that the risk of non-delivery is remote.

Competition

Our primary competitors for coffee beverage sales are quick-service
restaurants and specialty coffee shops. In almost all markets in which we do business, there are numerous competitors in the specialty coffee beverage business. We believe that our customers choose among specialty coffee retailers primarily on the
basis of product quality, service and convenience, as well as price. We continue to experience direct competition from large competitors in the US quick-service restaurant sector and continue to face competition from well-established companies in
many international markets and in the US ready-to-drink coffee beverage market.

Our whole bean coffees, ground packaged
coffees, Tazo®teas, and Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew compete directly against specialty coffees and teas sold through supermarkets, club stores and specialty retailers. Our whole bean coffees, coffee
beverages, and Starbucks VIA®Ready Brew compete indirectly against all other coffees on the market. Starbucks
also faces competition from both restaurants and other specialty retailers for prime retail locations and qualified personnel to operate both new and existing stores.

Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Domain Names

Starbucks owns and has applied to
register numerous trademarks and service marks in the US and in many additional countries throughout the world. Some of our trademarks, including Starbucks, the Starbucks logo, Seattle’s Best Coffee, Frappuccino, Starbucks VIA and Tazo are of
material importance. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained.

We own numerous copyrights for items such as product packaging, promotional materials, in-store graphics and training materials. We also hold
patents on certain products, systems and designs. In addition, Starbucks has registered and maintains numerous Internet domain names, including “Starbucks.com”, “Starbucks.net”, and “Seattlesbest.com.”

Research and Development

Our research
and development teams are responsible for the technical development of food and beverage products and new equipment. We spent approximately $15 million, $9 million and $7 million during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on
technical research and development activities, in addition to customary product testing and product and process improvements in all areas of our business.

Seasonality and Quarterly Results

Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations,
including fluctuations resulting from the holiday season. Cash flows from operations are considerably higher in the first fiscal quarter than the remainder of the year. This is largely driven by cash received as Starbucks Cards are purchased and
loaded during the holiday season. Since revenues from the Starbucks Cards are recognized upon redemption and not when purchased, seasonal fluctuations on the consolidated statements of earnings are much less pronounced. Quarterly results can also be
affected by the timing of the opening of new stores and the closing of existing stores. For these reasons, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.







Employees

Starbucks employed approximately 149,000 people worldwide as of October 2, 2011. In the US, Starbucks employed approximately 112,000 people, with 106,000 in company-operated stores and the
remainder in support facilities, store development, and roasting and warehousing operations. Approximately 37,000 employees were employed outside of the US, with 35,000 in company-operated stores and the remainder in regional support facilities
and roasting and warehousing operations. The number of Starbucks employees represented by unions is not significant. We believe our current relations with our employees are good.

Executive officers of the registrant



NameAgePositionHoward Schultz58chairman, president and chief executive officerCliff Burrows52president, Starbucks Coffee Americas and USJohn Culver51president, Starbucks Coffee China and Asia PacificJeff Hansberry47president, Channel Development and president, Seattle’s Best CoffeeMichelle Gass43president, Starbucks Coffee EMEATroy Alstead48chief financial officer and chief administrative officerPaula E. Boggs52executive vice president, general counsel and secretary

Howard Schultzis the founder of Starbucks and serves as the chairman, president and chief executive officer.
Mr. Schultz has served as chairman of the board since Starbucks inception in 1985 and he resumed his role as president and chief executive officer in January 2008. From June 2000 to February 2005, Mr. Schultz held the title of chief global
strategist. From November 1985 to June 2000, he served as chief executive officer. From November 1985 to June 1994, Mr. Schultz also served as president.

Cliff Burrowsjoined Starbucks in April 2001 and has served as president, Starbucks Coffee Americas and US since October 2011. From March 2008 to October 2011, Mr. Burrows served as president,
Starbucks Coffee US. He served as president, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) from April 2006 to March 2008. He served as vice president and managing director, UK prior to April 2006. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Burrows served in
various management positions with Habitat Designs Limited, a furniture and house wares retailer.

John Culverjoined Starbucks in August
2002 and has served as president, Starbucks Coffee China and Asia Pacific since October 2011. From December 2009 to October 2011, he served as president, Starbucks Coffee International. Mr. Culver served as executive vice president; president,
Global Consumer Products, Foodservice and Seattle’s Best Coffee from February 2009 to September 2009, and then as president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice from October 2009 to November 2009. He previously served as senior vice
president; president, Starbucks Coffee Asia Pacific from January 2007 to February 2009, and vice president; general manager, Foodservice from August 2002 to January 2007.

Jeff Hansberryjoined Starbucks in June 2010 and has served as president, Channel Development, which includes CPG, and president, Seattle’s Best Coffee since October 2011. From June 2010 to
October 2011, he served as president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Hansberry served as vice president and general manager, Popular BU for E. & J. Gallo Winery, a family-owned winery, from
November 2008 to May 2010. From September 2007 to November 2008, Mr. Hansberry served as vice president and general manager, Value BU, and from April 2005 to August 2007, he served as vice president and general manager Asia, for E. &
J. Gallo Winery. Prior to E. & J. Gallo, Mr. Hansberry held various positions with Procter & Gamble.

Michelle Gassjoined Starbucks in 1996 and has served as president, Starbucks Coffee EMEA since October 2011. From September 2009 to October 2011, she served as president, Seattle’s Best Coffee. Ms. Gass served as senior vice president, Marketing
and Category from July 2008 to November 2008, and then as executive vice president, Marketing and Category from December 2008 to September 2009. Ms. Gass previously served as senior vice president, Global Strategy, Office of the ceo from
January 2008 to July 2008, senior vice president, Global Product







and Brand from August 2007 to January 2008, senior vice president, and U.S. Category Management from May 2004 to August 2007. Ms. Gass served in a number of other positions with
Starbucks prior to 2004.

Troy Alsteadjoined Starbucks in 1992 and has served as chief financial officer and chief administrative
officer since November 2008. Mr. Alstead previously served as chief operating officer, Starbucks Greater China from April 2008 to October 2008, senior vice president, Global Finance and Business Operations from August 2007 to April 2008, and
senior vice president, Corporate Finance from September 2004 to August 2007. Mr. Alstead served in a number of other senior positions with Starbucks prior to 2004.

Paula E. Boggsjoined Starbucks in September 2002 as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary. Prior to joining Starbucks, Ms. Boggs served as vice president, legal, for
products, operations and information technology at Dell Computer Corporation from 1997 to 2002. From 1995 to 1997, Ms. Boggs was a partner with the law firm of Preston Gates & Ellis (now K&L Gates). Ms. Boggs served in several
roles at the Pentagon, White House and US Department of Justice between 1984 and 1995.

There are no family relationships among any of our
directors or executive officers.

Global Responsibility

We are committed to being a deeply responsible company in the communities where we do business around the world. Our focus is on ethically sourcing high-quality coffee, reducing our environmental impacts
and contributing positively to communities. Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments are integral to our overall business strategy. As a result, we believe we deliver benefits to our stakeholders, including employees, business
partners, customers, suppliers, shareholders, community members and others. For an overview of Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments, please visit www.starbucks.com.

Available Information

Starbucks 10-K reports, along with all other reports and amendments
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://investor.starbucks.com or at www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably
practicable after these materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our corporate governance policies, code of ethics and Board committee charters and policies are also posted on the Investor Relations section of Starbucks website at
http://investor.starbucks.com. The information on our website is not part of this or any other report Starbucks files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.



