ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Company

Founded in 1886, American Water Works Company, Inc. (the “Company” or “American Water”) is a holding company incorporated in Delaware. American Water is the largest and most geographically diverse investor owned publicly-traded United States water and wastewater utility company, as measured by both operating revenues and population served. We employ approximately 6,700 professionals who provide drinking water, wastewater and other related services to an estimated 15 million people in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Ontario, Canada.

Operating Segments

We conduct our business primarily through our Regulated Businesses segment. We also operate several market-based businesses that provide a broad range of related and complementary water and wastewater services, which include four operating segments that individually do not meet the criteria of a reportable segment in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). These four non-reportable operating segments are collectively presented as our “Market-Based Businesses,” which is consistent with how management assesses the results of these businesses. Additional information can be found in Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 19—Segment Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Regulated Businesses

Our primary business involves the ownership of subsidiaries that provide water and wastewater utility services to residential, commercial, industrial and other customers, including sale for resale and public authority customers. Our subsidiaries that provide these services operate in approximately 1,600 communities in 16 states in the United States and are generally subject to regulation by certain state commissions or other entities engaged in utility regulation, referred to as Public Utility Commissions or (“PUCs”). The federal and state governments also regulate environmental, health and safety, and water quality matters. We report the results of the services provided by our utilities in our Regulated Businesses segment.

Our Regulated Businesses segment’s operating revenues were $2,743 million for 2015, $2,674 million for 2014 and $2,594 million for 2013, accounting for 86.8%, 88.8% and 90.1%, respectively, of total operating revenues for the same periods.

The following table summarizes our Regulated Businesses’ operating revenues, number of customers and estimated population served by state, each as of December 31, 2015:

OperatingRevenues(In millions)% of TotalNumber ofCustomers% of TotalEstimatedPopulationServed(In millions)% of TotalNew Jersey$70425.7%660,58020.3%2.722.3%Pennsylvania61422.4%672,40720.7%2.319.0%Illinois(a)2709.8%313,0589.6%1.310.7%Missouri2699.8%473,24514.5%1.512.4%Indiana2067.5%295,9949.1%1.310.7%California1987.2%174,9425.4%0.65.0%West Virginia(b)1294.7%169,0375.2%0.65.0%Subtotal (Top Seven States)2,39087.1%2,759,26384.8%10.385.1%Other(c)35312.9%493,42815.2%1.814.9%Total Regulated Businesses$2,743100.0%3,252,691100.0%12.1100.0%

(a)Includes Illinois-American Water Company and American Lake Water Company.

(b)Includes West Virginia-American Water Company and its subsidiary Bluefield Valley Water Works Company.

(c)Includes data from our utilities in the following states: Georgia, Hawaii, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New York, Tennessee and Virginia.






Water Supplyand Wastewater Services

Our Regulated Businesses generally own the physical assets used to store, pump, treat and deliver water to our customers and collect, treat, transport and recycle wastewater. Typically, we do not own the water itself, which is held in public trust and is allocated to us through contracts and allocation rights granted by federal and state agencies or through the ownership of water rights pursuant to local law. We are dependent on a defined source of water supply and obtain our water supply from surface water sources such as reservoirs, lakes, rivers and streams; from ground water sources, such as wells; and water purchased from third party water suppliers.

The following chart depicts the sources of water supply as of December 31, 2015:



The percentages of finished water supply by source type for our top seven states based on our Regulated Businesses operating revenues for 2015 were as follows:

Surface WaterGround WaterPurchased WaterNew Jersey72%23%5%Pennsylvania92%7%1%Illinois52%37%11%Missouri80%19%1%Indiana43%56%1%California—65%35%West Virginia100%——

Our ability to meet the existing and future water demands of our customers depends on an adequate water supply. Drought, governmental restrictions, overuse of sources of water, the protection of threatened species or habitats, contamination, or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water. We employ a variety of measures in an effort to obtain adequate sources of water supply, both in the short-term and over the long-term. The geographic diversity of our service areas may mitigate some of the economic effect on the water supply associated with weather extremes we might encounter in any particular service territory. For example, in any given summer, some areas may experience drier than average weather, which may reduce the amount of source water available, while other areas we serve may experience wetter than average weather.






Wastewaterservices involve the collection of wastewater from customers’ premises through sewer lines. The wastewater is then transported through a sewer network to a treatment facility, where it is treated to meet required regulatory standards for wastewater beforebeing returned to the environment. The solid waste by-product of the treatment process is disposed of, or recycled, in accordance with applicable standards and regulations.

Economic Regulation and Rate Making Process

The operations of our Regulated Businesses are generally subject to regulation and oversight by the PUCs in each of the states served by our utilities, with the primary responsibility of the PUCs to promote the overall public interest by balancing the interest of customers and utility investors. Specific authority might differ from state to state, but in most states PUCs approve rates charged to customers, accounting treatments, long-term financing programs and cost of capital, capital expenditures, O&M expenses, taxes, transactions and affiliate relationships, reorganizations and mergers and acquisitions. Regulatory policies vary from state to state and could potentially change over time. These policies will affect the timing, as well as the extent, of recovery of expenses and the realized return on invested capital.

The process to obtain approval for a change in rates generally occurs by way of a rate case filed by the utility with the PUC on a periodic basis. The timing of rate case filings are typically determined by either periodic requirements in the regulatory jurisdiction or by the utility’s need to increase its revenue requirement to recover capital investment costs, changes in operating revenues, operating costs or other market conditions.

Our rate case management program is guided by the principles of obtaining timely recovery of capital investment costs, recognition of declining sales resulting from reduced consumption and appropriate recovery of utility operating and maintenance costs, including costs incurred for compliance with environmental regulations. The program attempts to minimize the delay, or “regulatory lag” between the time our Regulated Businesses make a capital investment or incur an operating expense increase and the time when those costs are reflected in rates. The management team at each of our utilities understands the time required for the regulatory process and files rate cases with the goal of obtaining rates that reflect as closely as possible the cost of providing service at the time the rates become effective.

Our Regulated Businesses support regulatory practices at the PUCs and state legislatures that mitigate the adverse impact of regulatory lag. Examples of approved regulatory practices include:

Regulatory PracticesDescriptionStates Allowed

Infrastructure replacement surchargesAllows rates to change periodically, outside a general rate proceeding, to reflect recovery of investments made to replace infrastructure necessary to sustain safe, reliable and affordable services for our customer.IL, IN, MO, NJ, NY, PA, TN

Future test yearA test period used for setting rates, which extends beyond the date a rate request is filed. This allows current or projected revenues, expenses and investments to be collected on a more timely basis.CA, HI, IL, IN, KY, NY, PA, TN, VA

Hybrid test yearAllows an update to historical data for “known and measurable” changes that occur subsequent to the historical test year.MO, NJ

Utility plant recovery mechanismsAllows recovery of the full return on utility plant costs during the construction period, instead of capitalizing an allowance for funds used during construction. In addition, some states, such as Indiana, allow the utility to seek pre-approval of certain capital projects and associated costs. In this pre-approval process, the PUC may assess the prudency of such projects.CA, IL, KY, NY PA, TN, VA

Expense mechanismsAllows changes in certain operating expenses, which may fluctuate based on conditions beyond the utility’s control, to be recovered outside of a general rate proceeding or deferred until the next general rate proceeding.CA, IL, MD, MO, NJ, NY, PA, TN, VA, WV

Revenue stability mechanismsSeparates a water utility's cost recovery from the amount of water it sells. Such a mechanism adjusts rates periodically to ensure that a utility's revenue will be sufficient to cover its fixed costs regardless of sales volume, while providing an incentive for customers to use water more efficiently.CA, NY

Consolidated tariffsUse of a unified rate structure for multiple water systems owned and operated by a single utility, which may or may not be physically interconnected. The consolidated tariff pricing structure may be used fully or partially in a state and is generally used to moderate the impact of periodic fluctuations in local costs while lowering administrative costs for customers. Pennsylvania also permits a blending of water and wastewater rate structures.IA, IL, IN, KY, MD, MO, NJ, PA, WV






We pursue or seek enhancement to these regulatory practices as part of our rate case management program to facilitate efficient recovery of our costs and investments, in order to provide safe, reliable and affordable services to our customers. The abilityto seek regulatory treatment as described above does not guarantee that the state PUCs will accept our proposal in the context of a particular rate case, and these practices may reduce, but not eliminate, regulatory lag associated with traditional rate making processes. It is also our strategy to expand their use in areas where they may not currently apply.

We also support state legislation that enables the consolidation of the largely fragmented water and wastewater industries. Legislation in certain states has generally enabled sales between interested parties, has allowed a reasonable market valuation of purchased property, and has enabled consolidation of water and wastewater rates.

Customers

Our Regulated Businesses have a large and geographically diverse customer base. A customer is a person, corporation, municipality or any other entity that purchases our water or wastewater system as of the last business day of a reporting period. Also, a single customer may purchase our services for use by multiple individuals or businesses in the case of many homes, apartment complexes, businesses and governmental entities.

Residential customers make up the majority of our customer base in all of the states in which we operate. In 2015, residential customers accounted for 91.1% of our customer base, 59.2% of the billed water sales and 56.0% of the operating revenues of our Regulated Businesses. We also serve commercial customers, such as offices, retail stores and restaurants; industrial customers, such as large-scale manufacturing and production operations; and public authorities, such as government buildings and other public sector facilities, including schools. We also supply water through our distribution systems to public fire hydrants for firefighting purposes, to private fire customers for use in fire suppression systems in office buildings and other facilities, as well as to other water utilities in the form of bulk water supplies for distribution to their own customers.

The vast majority of our regulated water customers are metered, which allows us to measure and bill for our customers’ water usage, typically on a monthly basis. We employ a variety of methods of customer meter reading to monitor consumption. These methods range from meters with mechanical registers where consumption is manually recorded by meter readers, to meters with electronic registers capable of transmitting consumption data to proximity devices (touch read) or via radio frequency to mobile or fixed network data collectors. The majority of new meters are able to support future advances in electronic meter reading. Our wastewater customers are billed either a flat rate or based on their water consumption.

The following table summarizes the number of water and wastewater customers we served by class as of December 31:

201520142013WaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterResidential2,829,170132,8702,813,715117,6022,813,601117,584Commercial218,7987,308218,3146,221219,5106,287Industrial3,765173,793173,82216Public & other60,42134259,24928158,420259Total3,112,154140,5373,095,071124,1213,095,353124,146

Customer growth in our Regulated Businesses is primarily driven by the following factors:

·adding new customers to our regulated customer base by acquiring water and/or wastewater utility systems;

·organic population growth or decline in our authorized service areas; and

·the sale of water to other community water systems.

Generally, we add customers through acquisitions of small and medium water and/or wastewater systems in close geographic proximity to areas where we operate our Regulated Businesses, which we refer to as “tuck-ins.” The proximity of tuck-in opportunities to our regulated footprint allows us to integrate and manage the acquired systems and operations primarily using our existing management and to achieve operational efficiencies. Pursuing tuck-ins has been and continues to be a fundamental part of our growth strategy. We intend to continue to expand our regulated footprint geographically by acquiring water and wastewater systems in our existing markets and, if appropriate, in certain United States markets where we do not currently operate our Regulated Businesses. We will also selectively seek acquisitions that allow us to acquire multiple water and wastewater utility systems in our existing and new markets. Before entering new regulated markets, we will evaluate the regulatory environment to ensure that we will have the opportunity to achieve an appropriate rate of return on our investment while maintaining our high standards for providing safe, reliable and affordable services to our customers.






Seasonality

Customer demand for our water service is affected by weather and is generally greater during the summer months primarily due to increased usage for irrigation systems and other outdoor water use. As such, we typically expect our operating revenues to be the highest in the third quarter of each year compared to any of the other quarters. However, varying summer weather conditions can impact our third quarter financial results. Summer weather that is cooler and/or wetter than average generally serves to suppress customer water demand and can reduce water operating revenues and operating income. Summer weather that is hotter and drier than average generally increases operating revenues and operating income.

Competition

In our Regulated Businesses, we generally do not face direct competition in our existing markets because: (i) we operate in those markets pursuant to certificates of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) issued by state PUCs; and (ii) the high cost of constructing a new water and wastewater system in an existing market creates a high barrier to market entry. However, our Regulated Businesses do face competition from governmental agencies, other investor-owned utilities, large industrial customers with the ability to provide their own water supply/treatment process and strategic buyers that are entering new markets and/or making strategic acquisitions. Our largest investor-owned competitors, when pursuing acquisitions, based on a comparison of operating revenues and population served, are Aqua America, Inc., United Water (owned by Suez Environnement Company S.A.), American States Water Company and California Water Service Group. From time to time, we also face competition from infrastructure funds, multi-utility companies and others, such as Algonquin Power and Utilities Corp. and Corix.

All or portions of our regulated subsidiaries’ utility assets could be acquired by municipalities or other local government entities through one or more of the following methods:

·eminent domain (also known as condemnation);

·the right of purchase given or reserved by a municipality or political subdivision when the original certificate of public convenience and necessity was granted; and

·the right of purchase given or reserved under the law of the state in which the utility subsidiary was incorporated or from which it received its certificate.

The acquisition consideration related to such a transaction initiated by a local government may be determined consistent with applicable eminent domain law, or may be negotiated or fixed by appraisers as prescribed by the law of the state or in the particular franchise or charter.

We actively monitor condemnation activities that may affect us as developments occur. We do not believe that condemnation poses a material threat to our ability to operate our Regulated Businesses, either individually or taken as a whole.

Market-Based Businesses

Through our Market-Based Businesses, we provide services to military bases, municipalities, exploration and production companies, commercial, industrial and residential customers that are not subject to economic regulation by state PUCs and do not require substantial infrastructure investment. For 2015, operating revenues for our Market-Based Businesses was $434 million, or 13.7% of total operating revenues.

Our Market-Based Businesses is comprised of four operating segments:

·Military Services Group, which enters into long-term contracts, generally 50 years, with the U.S. Department of Defense for the O&M of the water and wastewater systems on certain military bases;

·Homeowner Services Group, which primarily provides warranty-type services to homeowners and smaller commercial customers to protect against the cost of repairing broken or leaking water pipes or clogged or blocked sewer pipes, located inside and outside their premise, as well as interior electric line repairs;

·Contract Operations Group, which enters into contracts primarily to operate and maintain water and wastewater facilities and other related services mainly for municipalities and the food and beverage industry; and

·Keystone, which provides customized water sourcing, transfer services, pipeline construction, water and equipment hauling and water storage solutions, for natural gas exploration and production companies.






In November 2014, we disposed of our Class B Biosolids operating segment by selling our subsidiary, Terratec Environmental Ltd (“Terratec”), which provided biosolids management, transport and disposal services to municipal and industrial customers in Ontario, Canada. The results of Terratec are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from continuing operations and operating segment results for all periodspresented. See Note 3—Acquisitions and Divestitures in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our discontinued operations.

Military Services Group

Our Military Services Group has twelve 50-year contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense for the O&M of the water and wastewater systems on certain military bases. All of these contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the 50-year term for convenience of the U.S. government or as a result of default or non-performance by the subsidiary performing the contract. In either event, pursuant to termination provisions applicable to these contracts, we would be entitled to recover allowable costs that we may have incurred under the contract, plus the contract profit margin on incurred costs. The contract price for nine of these contracts is subject to redetermination two years after commencement of operations and every three years thereafter. Price redetermination is a contract mechanism to periodically adjust the service fee in the next period to reflect changes in contract obligations and anticipated market conditions. Three contracts are subject to annual price adjustments under a mechanism similar to price redetermination, called “Economic Price Adjustment.” During the contract term, we may make limited short-term working capital investments under our contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense.

Homeowner Services Group

Our Homeowner Services Group, through our Service Line Protection Program, provides services to domestic homeowners and smaller commercial customers to protect against the cost of interior and external water and sewer line repairs and interior electric line repairs. Our LineSaver™ program involves partnering with municipalities to offer our protection programs to homeowners serviced by the municipalities. As of December 31, 2015, our Homeowner Services Group had approximately 1.6 million customer contracts in 43 states and the District of Columbia.

Contract Operations Group

Our Contract Operations Group enters into public/private partnerships, including: (i) O&M; (ii) Design; Build and Operate; and (iii) Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Maintain contracts for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities for municipalities, the food and beverage industry and other customers. We are party to 58 contracts, varying in size and scope across the United States and Canada, ranging in terms from one to 30 years. Historically, we have made minimal long-term capital investment under these contracts with municipalities and other customers; instead we perform our services for a fee. Occasionally, we provide our customers with financing for capital projects as part of a long-term operations and maintenance partnership.

Keystone

Our Keystone business commenced in July 2015 through the acquisition of a ninety-five percent interest in Water Solutions Holdings, LLC, including its wholly owned subsidiary, Keystone Clearwater Solutions, LLC (collectively referred to as “Keystone”). Keystone is a water management solution company currently focused on exploration and production companies in the Appalachian Basin. Keystone primarily provides customized water sourcing, transfer, storage, transport and pipeline construction services for natural gas exploration and production companies. As of December 31, 2015, Keystone served 46 customers.

Competition

We face competition in our Market-Based Businesses from a number of service providers, including Veolia Environnement, American States Water Company, Operations Management International, Inc. and Southwest Water Company, particularly in the area of O&M contracting. Securing new O&M contracts is highly competitive, as these contracts are awarded based on a combination of customer relationships, service levels, competitive pricing, references and technical expertise. We also face competition in maintaining existing O&M contracts to which we are a party, as the municipal and industrial fixed term contracts frequently come up for renegotiation and are subject to an open bidding process.

Our Homeowner Services Group faces competition primarily from HomeServe USA and Utility Service Partners, Inc.

Keystone currently faces competition from water service providers that typically provide particular segments of the water management cycle, such as Rockwater Energy Solutions, Select Energy Services and Fluid Delivery Solutions, LLC.






Industry and Regulatory Matters

Overview

The aging water and wastewater infrastructure in the United States is in need of modernization and replacement. Increased regulations to improve water quality and the management of water and wastewater residuals’ discharges, which began with passage of the Clean Water Act in 1972 and the Safe Drinking Water Act in 1974, have been among the primary drivers of the need for modernization. In 2007, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) estimated that approximately $390.0 billion of capital spending would be necessary over the then next 20 years to replace aging infrastructure and ensure quality wastewater systems across the United States. In 2011, the EPA also estimated that the nation’s drinking water utilities need $384.2 billion in infrastructure investments for thousands of miles of pipe as well as thousands of treatment plants storage tanks, and other key assets between 2011 and 2030 to ensure the public health, security and economic well-being of our cities, towns and communities. Additionally, in 2013 the American Society of Civil Engineers (“ASCE”) published itsReport Card for America’s Infrastructure,in which it gave the water and wastewater infrastructure a grade of “D” because much of the infrastructure is nearing the end of its useful life. The ASCE report concluded that there will be an investment gap between 2013 and 2020 of $84 billion for drinking water and wastewater infrastructure.

The following chart depicts estimated aggregate capital expenditure needs from 2011 through 2030 for United States drinking water systems:



Note:  Numbers may not total due to rounding

Source:  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's 2011 Drinking Water Infrastructure Needs Survey and Assessment

Environmental, Health and Safety, and Water Quality Regulation

Our water and wastewater operations, including the services provided by both our Regulated Businesses and Market-Based Businesses, are subject to extensive U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, and in the case of our Canadian operations, Canadian laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, health and safety, the quality of the water we deliver to our customers, water allocation rights and the manner in which we collect, treat, discharge, recycle and dispose of wastewater. These regulations include the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act and other U.S. federal, state, local and Canadian laws and regulations governing the provision of water and wastewater services, particularly with respect to the quality of water we distribute. We also are subject to various U.S. federal, state, local and Canadian laws and regulations governing the storage of hazardous materials, the management and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes, discharges to air and water, the cleanup of contaminated sites, dam safety and other matters relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety. State PUCs also set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we deliver.

Environmental, health and safety, and water quality regulations are complex and change frequently. The overall trend has been that they have become increasingly stringent over time. As newer or stricter standards are introduced, our capital and operating costs could increase. We incur substantial costs associated with compliance with environmental, health and safety, and water quality regulation to which our operations are subject. In the past, our Regulated Businesses have generally been able to recover costs associated with compliance related to environmental, health and safety standards; however, this recovery is affected by regulatory lag and the corresponding uncertainties surrounding rate recovery. We estimate that we will make capital expenditures of $42 million during 2016 and $89 million during 2017 for environmental control facilities, which we define for this purpose as any project (or portion thereof) that involves the preservation of air, water or land.






We maintain an environmental program including responsible business practices, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, effective use of natural resources, and stewardship of biodiversity. We believe that our operations are materially in compliance with, and in many cases surpass, minimum standards required by applicable environmental laws and regulations. Water samples from across our water systemsare analyzed on a regular basis for compliance with regulatory requirements. Across our Company, we conduct over one million water quality tests each year at our laboratory facilities and plant operations, including continuous on-line instrumentations suchas monitoring turbidity levels, disinfectant residuals and adjustments to chemical treatment based on changes in incoming water. For 2015, we achieved a score of greater than 99% for drinking water compliance and according to the EPA’s statistics, American Water’s performance has been far better than the industry average over the last several years. In fact, in 2015, American Water was 13 times better than the industry average for compliance with drinking water requirements.

We participate in the Partnership for Safe Water, EPA’s voluntary program to meet more stringent goals for reducing microbial contaminants. With 68 of our 81 surface water plants receiving the program’s “Director” award, which recognizes utilities that have completed a comprehensive self-assessment report, created an action plan for continuous improvement and produces high quality drinking water, we account for approximately one-third of the plants receiving such awards nationwide. In addition, 64 American Water plants have received the “Five-Year Phase III” award, while 59 have been awarded the “Ten-Year Phase III” award. Additionally, 25 plants received the inaugural “Fifteen-Year Phase III” award, which recognizes plants that have met the Director award status for 15 years.

Safe Drinking Water Act

The Federal Safe Drinking Water Act and regulations promulgated thereunder establish national quality standards for drinking water. The EPA has issued rules governing the levels of numerous naturally occurring and man-made chemical and microbial contaminants and radionuclides allowable in drinking water and continues to propose new rules. These rules also prescribe testing requirements for detecting regulated contaminants, the treatment systems which may be used for removing those contaminants and other requirements. Federal and state water quality requirements have become increasingly stringent, including increased water testing requirements, to reflect public health concerns. To date, the EPA has set standards for approximately 90 contaminants and indicators for drinking water. Further, certain of our water systems have recently completed the process of monitoring for 28 additional contaminants that are not currently regulated to help the EPA determine if any of them occur at high enough levels to warrant being regulated. There are thousands of other chemical compounds that are not regulated, many of which are lacking a testing methodology, occurrence data, health effects information and/or treatment technology.

Although it is difficult to project the ultimate costs of complying with the above or other pending or future requirements, we do not expect current requirements under the Safe Drinking Water Act and other similar laws to have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. In addition, capital expenditures and operating costs to comply with environmental mandates traditionally have been recognized by the state PUCs as appropriate for inclusion in establishing rates. As a result, we expect to fully recover the operating and capital costs resulting from these pending or future requirements.






Clean Water Act

The Federal Clean Water Act regulates discharges from drinking water and wastewater treatment facilities into lakes, rivers, streams and groundwater. In addition to requirements applicable to our wastewater collection systems, our operations require discharge permits under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit program established under the Clean Water Act, which must be renewed every five years. Pursuant to the NPDES permit program, the EPA or implementing states set maximum discharge limits for wastewater effluents and overflows from wastewater collection systems.Discharges that exceed the limits specified under NPDES permits can lead to the imposition of penalties, and persistent non-compliance could lead to significant penalties and compliance costs. In addition, the difficulty of obtaining, complying with NPDES permits and renewing expiring permits may impose time and cost burdens on our operations.From time to time, discharge violations occur at our facilities, some of which result in fines. We do not expect any such violations or fines to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.

Other Environmental, Health and Safety, and Water Quality Matters

Certain of our subsidiaries are involved in pending legal proceedings relating to environmental matters. Further description of these proceedings can be found in Item 3—Legal Proceedings.

Research and Development

We have a research and development program, which seeks to improve water quality and operational effectiveness in all areas of our business. Our research and development personnel are located in New Jersey. In addition, our quality control and testing laboratory in Belleville, Illinois supports our research and development activities through testing and analysis.

We continue to collaborate with the EPA to achieve effective environmental, health and safety, and water quality regulation. This relationship includes sharing of our research and national water quality monitoring data in addition to our treatment and distribution system optimization research. Our engagement with the EPA provides us with early insight into emerging regulatory issues and initiatives, thereby allowing us to anticipate and to accommodate our future compliance requirements.

Approximately one-quarter of our research budget is funded by competitively awarded outside research grants. Such grants reduce the cost of research and allow collaboration with leading national and international researchers. In 2015, we spent $4 million, including $1 million funded by research grants. Spending, net of research grant funding, amounted to $3 million in 2014 and 2013.

We believe that continued research and development activities are critical for providing safe, reliable and affordable services, as well as maintaining our leadership position in the industry, which provides us with a competitive advantage as we seek additional business with new and existing customers.






Support Services

Our American Water Works Service Company subsidiary provides support services and corporate governance for our operating subsidiaries. These services are provided predominantly to our Regulated Businesses under the terms of contracts with these subsidiaries that have been approved by state PUCs, where necessary. These services are also provided to our Market-Based Businesses organized under American Water Enterprises. They are only provided to Keystone upon request. These services, which are provided at cost, may include accounting and finance, administration, business development, communications, education and training, engineering, health and safety, human resources, information systems, internal audit, investor relations, legal, operations, procurement, rates support, security, risk management, treasury, water quality and research and development. We also operate two national customer service centers, which are located in Alton, Illinois and Pensacola, Florida, that provide customer relations, operations and field service support. The services are provided at cost and enable our Regulated Businesses and Market-Based Businesses to fulfill their responsibilities in a more cost-effective manner.

Our security department provides oversight and governance of physical and information security throughout our operations and is responsible for designing, implementing, monitoring and supporting active and effective physical and information security controls. We have complied with EPA regulations concerning vulnerability assessments and have made filings to the EPA as required. Vulnerability assessments are conducted periodically to evaluate the effectiveness of existing security controls and serve as the basis for further capital investment in security for the facility. Information security controls are deployed or integrated as a preventative measure against unauthorized access to company information systems. These controls are aimed at assuring the continuity of business processes that are dependent upon automation; seek to ensure the integrity of our data; support regulatory and legislative compliance requirements; and aimed at maintaining safe and reliable service to our customers. While we do not make public comments on the details of our security programs, we are in contact with U.S. federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to coordinate and improve the security of our water delivery systems and to safeguard our water supply.

Employee Matters

As of December 31, 2015, approximately 46% of our workforce is represented by unions. As of that date we had 75 collective bargaining agreements in place with 17 different unions representing our unionized employees. Also, we have 4 union contracts beyond expiration that affect approximately 700 employees, all of which are actively working under the old agreements. During 2016, 32 of our local union contracts will expire.

On October 13, 2014, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Utility Workers Union of America (“UWUA”) designed to resolve a dispute between our company and the labor unions representing employees in the Regulated Businesses (the “Unions”). Among other things, the settlement agreement provides for a new 2014-2018 National Benefits Agreement that will be in effect generally until July 31, 2018. In addition, we agreed to make a $10 million lump-sum payment, to be distributed in accordance with procedures set forth in the settlement agreement.

The Unions approved the settlement agreement on October 30, 2014, and the National Labor Relations Board (the “NLRB”) approved the settlement agreement on October 31, 2014. We, the NLRB and the UWUA filed a joint stipulation to dismiss the petition for review. The Seventh Circuit voluntarily dismissed all the parties' appeals on December 16, 2014. In 2015, the NLRB dismissed the unfair labor practice charge pending on the national benefits dispute upon receipt of our $10 million lump-sum payment.

The majority of the distributions were used to reimburse active employees for medical claims, which were incurred during the relevant period and were funded by the Group Insurance Plan for Active Employees of American Water Works Company, Inc. and Its Designated Subsidiaries and Affiliates, to which we previously made contributions.






Executive Officers

The following table summarizes the name, age, offices held and business experience for each of our executive officers, as of February 24, 2016:

NameAgeOffice and Experience

Susan N. Story56President and Chief Executive Officer.Ms. Story has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since May 2014. Ms. Story served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company from April 2013 until May 2014. Prior to joining American Water, she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Company Services, a subsidiary of Southern Company, from January 2011 until March 2013 and President and Chief Executive Officer of Gulf Power Company, also a subsidiary of Southern Company, from 2003 until December 2010. Since 2008, Ms. Story has served as a member of the board of directors of Raymond James Financial, Inc., a diversified financial services company.

Sharon Cameron59President of American Water Enterprises.Ms. Cameron has been President of American Water Enterprises since September 2010 and served as President of Homeowner Services since 2002. Prior to joining American Water, Ms. Cameron was Principal of Marketing Solutions, a marketing consulting firm she launched in 1998.

Mark Chesla56Vice President and Controller.Mr. Chesla has been our Vice President and Controller since November 2007. From 2001 to November 2007, Mr. Chesla was Vice President and Controller of Oglethorpe Power Corporation, in Atlanta, Georgia, where he served as that company’s chief accounting officer. In this capacity, he was responsible for all aspects of the accounting, internal financial management, regulatory and SEC reporting functions. Mr. Chesla was Vice President, Administration/Controller of SouthStar Energy Services LLC, in Atlanta, Georgia, from 1998 to 2001. Earlier, he held management positions with several other companies, including Piedmont Natural Gas Co., Inc., Aegis Technologies, Inc., Deloitte & Touche LLP and Carolina Power & Light Company.

Deborah Degillio44Vice President and Treasurer.Ms. Degillio has served as the Company’s Vice President and Treasurer since January 2015. Ms. Degillio served as Vice President of Finance of American Water Enterprises from November 2013 to February 2015, as a Vice President in the Company’s Finance team for its Eastern Division from June 2009 until October 2013, and as Director of Financial Planning and Analysis for America Water’s then Western states, from April 2007 until May 2009.

Brenda J. Holdnak62Senior Vice President of Human Resources.Ms. Holdnak has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President Human Resources since January 1, 2016 and its Vice President Human Resources from January 19, 2015 to December 31, 2015. Prior to joining American Water, she served as President of Holdnak and Associates Consulting, a human resources consulting firm, from June 2014 to December 2014. Prior to that time, she served as Director of Talent Management of The Babcock & Wilcox Company, from March 2011 to June 2014. Previously, she served as Director of Change Management and Organizational Development of Medtronic, Inc. from May 2010 to March 2011 and an Executive Consultant/Principal of the Henly Consulting Group from July 2006 to January 2011.

Walter J. Lynch53Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.Mr. Lynch has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since January 1, 2016, as Chief Operating Officer of Regulated Operations from February 26, 2010 to December 31, 2015, and President of Regulated Operations from July 2008 to December 31, 2015. Mr. Lynch joined us in 2001. In addition, Mr. Lynch is on the Board of Directors of the National Association of Water Companies and serves on its Executive Committee.

Michael Sgro57Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.Mr. Sgro has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since January 1, 2016 and its Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from February 2015 to January 2016. Prior to that, he served as the Company’s Interim General Counsel and Secretary from January 2015 until February 2015 and as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of American Water’s Northeast Division beginning in 2002.

Mark F. Strauss64Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Business Development.Mr. Strauss has been our Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Business Development since September 2010. From December 2006 to September 2010, Mr. Strauss served as President of American Water Enterprises. In January 2016, Mr. Strauss was appointed to the Board of Directors of Fulton Financial Corporation, a Lancaster, Pennsylvania-based financial holding company.

Linda G. Sullivan52Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.Ms. Sullivan has served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 1, 2016 and the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from May 2014 to December 31, 2015. Prior to joining American Water, Ms. Sullivan served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Southern California Edison Company, a subsidiary of Edison International, from July 2009 until May 2014, and Vice President and Controller of both Edison International and Southern California Edison Company, from July 2004 until July 2009.

Loyd “Aldie” Warnock56Senior Vice President of External Affairs, Communications and Public Policy.Mr. Warnock has served as the Company’s Senior Vice President of External Affairs, Communications and Public Policy since April 2014. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Senior Vice President of External Affairs at Midwest Independent System Operator, Inc., a non-profit, self-governing organization, from March 2011 to April 2014. Prior to that, he served as Vice President of External Affairs for Allegheny Energy, Inc. from December 2005 to February 2011 and Senior Vice President of Governmental and Regulatory Affairs at Mirant Corporation from July 2004 to November 2005.

Each executive officer is elected annually by the Board of Directors and serves until his or her respective successor has been elected and qualified or his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.






Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may obtain a copy of any of these reports, free of charge, from the Investor Relations section of our website,http://www.amwater.com,shortly after we file or furnish the information to the SEC. Information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this report, and any website references included herein are not intended to be made through active hyperlinks. We recognize this website as a key channel of distribution to reach public investors and as a means of disclosing material non-public information to comply with our disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD.

You may also obtain a copy of any of these reports directly from the SEC. You may read and copy any material we file or furnish with the SEC at its Public Reference Room, located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The phone number for information about the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. Because we electronically file our reports, you may also obtain this information from the SEC internet website athttp://www.sec.gov.You can obtain additional contact information for the SEC on its website.

The American Water corporate governance guidelines and the charters for each of the standing committees of the Board of Directors, together with the American Water Code of Ethics and additional information regarding our corporate governance, are available on our website,http://www.amwater.com,and will be made available, without charge, in print to any stockholder who requests such documents from Investor Relations Department, American Water Works Company, Inc., 1025 Laurel Oak Road, Voorhees, NJ, 08043.



