ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Company

American Water Works Company, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is the most geographically diversified, as well as the largest
publicly-traded, United States water and wastewater utility company, as measured by both operating revenue and population served. Our more than 7,000 employees provide approximately 15 million people with drinking water, wastewater and other
water-related services in over 30 states and two Canadian provinces.

In 2010, we generated $2,710.7 million in total
operating revenue and $748.1 million in operating income. In 2009, we generated $2,440.7 million in total operating revenue and $173.6 million in operating income, which included a $450.0 million impairment charge. Our 2009 revenue represents
approximately four times the operating revenue of the next largest publicly traded company in the United States water and wastewater business.

We have two operating segments that are also the Company’s two reportable segments, the Regulated Businesses and the Market-Based Operations (formerly known as the “Non-Regulated
Businesses”). For further details on our segments, see Note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For 2010, our
Regulated Businesses segment generated $2,424.2 million in operating revenue, which accounted for 89.4% of our total consolidated operating revenue. For the same period, our Market-Based Operations segment generated $311.8 million in operating
revenue, which accounted for 11.5% of total consolidated operating revenue.

For additional financial information, please see
the financial statements and related notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Our History as a Public Company

The Company was founded in 1886 as the American Water Works & Guarantee Company for the purposes of building
and purchasing water systems in McKeesport, Pennsylvania. In 1935, the Company was reorganized under its current name, and in 1947 the common stock of the Company became publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). In 2003, we
were acquired by RWE Aktiengesellschaft, which we refer to as RWE, a stock corporation incorporated in the Federal Republic of Germany. On April 28, 2008, RWE Aqua Holdings GmbH, a German limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned
subsidiary of RWE, which then was the sole owner of the Company’s common stock, completed a partial divestiture of its investment through an initial public offering (“IPO”). As a result of the IPO, we again became listed on the NYSE
under the symbol “AWK” and resumed our position as the largest publicly traded water utility company in the United States. As of December 31, 2008, RWE owned approximately 60% of the Company’s shares of common stock. Throughout
2009, RWE continued to divest of its investment in our common stock through public offerings and on November 24, 2009, RWE completed the divestiture.

Regulated Businesses Segment Overview

Our primary business involves
the ownership of water and wastewater utilities services to residential, commercial, industrial and other customers, including sale for resale and public authority customers. Our subsidiaries that provide these services are generally subject to
economic regulation by certain state commissions or other entities engaged in economic regulation, hereafter referred to as “PUCs” in the states in which they operate. The federal government and the states also regulate environmental,
health and safety, and water quality matters. We report the results of our primary business in the Regulated Businesses segment. As noted above, for







2010, operating revenue for our Regulated Businesses segment was $2,424.2 million, accounting for 89.4% of total consolidated operating revenue for the same period. Regulated Businesses
segment operating revenues were $2,207.3 million for 2009 and $2,082.7 million for 2008 accounting for 90.4% and 89.1%, respectively, of total operating revenues for the same periods.

The following charts set forth operating revenue for 2010 and customers as of December 31, 2010, for the states in which our
Regulated Businesses provide services:



Regulated Businesses Operating Revenue(dollars in millions)Regulated Businesses Customers

Market-Based Operations Overview

We also provide services that are not subject to economic regulation by state PUCs through our Market-Based Operations. Our Market-Based
Operations include three lines of business:



•Contract Operations Group, which enters into contracts to operate and maintain water and wastewater facilities for the United States military,
municipalities, the food and beverage industry and other customers;



•Homeowner Services Group, which provides services to domestic homeowners and smaller commercial establishments to protect against the cost of repairing
broken or leaking water pipes and clogged or blocked sewer pipes inside and outside their accommodations; and



•Terratec Environmental Ltd., which we refer to as Terratec, which primarily provides biosolids management, transport and disposal services to municipal
and industrial customers.

For 2010, operating revenue for our Market-Based Operations was
$311.8 million, accounting for 11.5% of total operating revenue for the same period. The Market-Based Operations’ operating revenue was $257.7 million for 2009 and $272.2 million for 2008 accounting for 10.6% and 11.6%, respectively, of
total operating revenues for the same periods.







Our Industry

Overview

The United States water and wastewater industry has two
main sectors (i) utility, which involves supplying water and wastewater services to consumers; and (ii) general services, which involves providing water and wastewater related services to water and wastewater utilities and other customers
on a contract basis.

The utility sector includes investor-owned as well as municipal systems that are owned and operated by
local governments or governmental subdivisions. The Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) estimates that government-owned systems make up the vast majority of the United States water and wastewater utility segment, accounting for
approximately 84% of all United States community water systems and approximately 98% of all United States community wastewater systems. Investor-owned water and wastewater systems account for the remainder of the United States water and wastewater
community water systems. Growth of service providers in the investor-owned regulated utility sector is achieved through organic growth within a franchise area, the provision of bulk water service to other community water systems and/or the
acquisitions, including small water and wastewater systems, typically serving fewer than 10,000 customers that are in close geographic proximity to already established regulated operations, which we herein refer to as “tuck-ins.”

According to the EPA, the utility segment of the United States water and wastewater industry is highly fragmented, with
approximately 52,000 community water systems and approximately 16,000 community wastewater facilities. Fifty-six percent of the approximately 52,000 community water systems are very small, serving a population of 500 or less.

This large number of relatively small fragmented water systems as well as fragmented wastewater facilities may result in inefficiencies
in the marketplace, since such utilities may not have the operating expertise, financial and technological capability or economies of scale to provide services or raise capital as efficiently as larger utilities. These inefficiencies may lead to
industry consolidation in the future, as the larger investor-owned utilities acquire smaller, local water and wastewater systems. Larger utilities that have greater access to capital are generally more capable of making mandated and other necessary
infrastructure upgrades to both water and wastewater systems. In addition, water and wastewater utilities with large customer bases, spread across broad geographic regions, may more easily absorb the impact of significant variations in precipitation
and temperatures, such as droughts, excessive rain and cool temperatures in specific areas. Larger utilities generally are able to spread overhead expenses over a larger customer base, thereby reducing the costs to serve each customer. Since many
administrative and support activities can be efficiently centralized to gain economies of scale and sharing of best practices, companies that participate in industry consolidation have the potential to improve operating efficiencies, lower costs per
unit and improve service at the same time.

The utility sector is characterized by high barriers to entry, including the
capital intensive nature of the industry. Investor-owned water and wastewater utilities also face regulatory approval processes in order to do business, which may involve obtaining relevant operating approvals, including certificates of public
convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) from state PUCs. Investor-owned water and wastewater systems are generally subject to economic regulation by the state PUCs in the states in which they operate. The federal government and the
states also regulate environmental, health and safety and water quality matters for both investor-owned and government-owned water and wastewater utilities.

The general services sector includes engineering and consulting companies and numerous other fee-for-service businesses. These include building and operating water and wastewater utility systems, system
repair services, lab services, sale of water infrastructure and distribution products (such as pipes) and other specialized services. The general services segment is characterized by aggressive competition and market-driven growth and profit
margins.









The aging water and wastewater infrastructure in the United States is in constant need of
modernization and facilities replacement. Increased regulations to improve water quality and the management of wastewater discharges, which began with passage of the Clean Water Act in 1972 and the Safe Drinking Water Act in 1974, have been among
the primary drivers of the need for modernization. The EPA estimated that approximately $335 billion of capital spending will be necessary between 2007 and 2026 to replace aging infrastructure and to comply with standards to ensure quality
water systems across the United States. Also, the EPA estimates that approximately $390 billion of capital spending will be necessary over the next 20 years to replace aging infrastructure and ensure quality wastewater systems across the United
States. In addition, the American Society of Civil Engineers’ 2009Report Card for America’s Infrastructurereinforces the urgency to address infrastructure issues associated with aging water and wastewater systems.

Capital expenditures related to municipal water supply, treatment and distribution and wastewater collection and treatment facilities are
typically funded by water and wastewater rates, taxes or the issuance of bonds. As a result, in order to meet their capital spending challenges, many municipalities are examining a combination of privatizations and partnerships with the private
sector. Privatization typically involves a transfer of ownership or responsibility for the operation of the utility from the municipality to the private sector. Some cases may involve an ownership transfer, for specified long-term periods, with
transfer back to the municipality at expiration of the term of the agreement. Partnerships between municipalities and the private sector include arrangements like Operations and Maintenance (“O&M”); Design, Build and Operate
(“DBO”); Design, Build Operate/Maintain; and Design, Build, Own, Operate/Maintain and Transfer contracts. Under these types of contracts, the municipality either retains ownership or regains ownership of the water and/or wastewater system
and the private sector takes responsibility for managing and operating the system.

The following chart sets forth estimated
capital expenditure needs from 2007 through 2026 for United States water systems:









Over the next several years, we estimate that Company-funded capital investment will total
between $800 million and $1 billion per year. Our capital investment includes both infrastructure renewal programs, where we replace existing infrastructure, as needed, and construction of facilities to meet environmental requirements and new
customer growth. The charts below set forth our estimated percentage of projected capital expenditures by asset type and purpose of investment, respectively:







Water and Wastewater Rates

Investor-owned water and wastewater utilities generate operating revenue from customers based on rates that are
established by state PUCs through a rate-setting process that may include public hearings, evidentiary hearings and the submission by the utility of evidence and testimony in support of the requested level of rates. In evaluating a rate case, state
PUCs typically focus on six areas (i) the amount and prudence of investment in facilities considered “used and useful” in providing public service; (ii) the operating and maintenance costs and taxes associated with providing the
service (typically by making reference to a representative 12-month period of time, known as a test year); (iii) the appropriate rate of return; (iv) the tariff or rate design that allocates operating revenue requirements equitably across
the customer base; (v) the quality of service the utility provides, including issues raised by customers and (vi) revenue at existing rates.

Water and wastewater rates in the United States are among the lowest rates in developed countries; and for most U.S. consumers, water and wastewater bills make up a relatively small percentage of
household expenditures compared to other utility services. The following chart sets forth the relative cost of water and other public services, including trash and garbage collection and sewer maintenance, in the United States as a percentage of
total household utility expenditures:









Our Regulated Businesses

Our core Regulated Businesses, which consist of locally managed utility subsidiaries that generally are economically regulated by the states in which they operate, accounted for $2,424.2 million or 89.4%
of our consolidated operating revenue in 2010. Our Regulated Businesses provide a high degree of financial stability because (i) high barriers to entry provide certain protections from competitive pressures; (ii) economic regulation
promotes predictability in financial planning and long-term performance through the rate-setting process; and (iii) our largely residential customer base promotes consistent operating results.

The following table sets forth operating revenue for 2010 and number of customers as well as an estimate of population served as of
December 31, 2010 for our regulated subsidiaries in the states where our Regulated Businesses operate:



OperatingRevenues(in millions)% of TotalNumber ofCustomers% of TotalEstimatedPopulationServed(in millions)% of TotalNew Jersey$601.224.8%645,93919.4%2.521.3%Pennsylvania505.920.9%654,57819.6%2.218.1%Illinois(a)232.09.6%308,3999.2%1.29.8%Missouri224.69.2%452,10213.6%1.512.3%Indiana181.77.5%284,5688.5%1.29.8%California158.26.5%173,0755.2%0.64.9%West Virginia(b)123.45.1%172,3405.2%0.64.9%Subtotal (Top Seven States)2,027.083.6%2,691,00180.7%9.881.1%Other(c)397.216.4%644,51719.3%2.418.9%Total Regulated Businesses$2,424.2100.0%3,335,518100.0%12.2100.0%



(a)Includes Illinois-American Water Company, which we refer to as ILAWC and American Lake Water Company, also a regulated subsidiary in Illinois.

(b)West Virginia-American Water Company, which we refer to as WVAWC, and its subsidiary Bluefield Valley Water Works Company.

(c)Includes data from our operating subsidiaries in the following states: Arizona, Georgia, Hawaii, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, New York, Ohio,
Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.

Approximately 83.6% of operating revenue from our Regulated Businesses in 2010
was generated from approximately 2.7 million customers in our seven largest states, as measured by operating revenues. In fiscal year 2010, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our annual operating revenue.

Overview of Networks, Facilities and Water Supply

Our Regulated Businesses operate in approximately 1,600 communities in 20 states in the United States. Our primary operating assets include approximately 90 surface water treatment plants, 600 groundwater
treatment plants, 1,200 groundwater wells, 60 wastewater treatment facilities, 1,300 treated water storage facilities, 1,300 pumping stations and 100 dams and 49,000 miles of mains and collection pipes. We own substantially all of the assets used by
our Regulated Businesses. We generally own the land and physical assets used to store, extract and treat source water. Typically, we do not own the water itself, which is held in public trust and is allocated to us through contracts and allocation
rights granted by federal and state agencies or through the ownership of water rights pursuant to local law. Maintaining the reliability of our networks is a key activity of our Regulated Businesses. We have ongoing main renewal programs in all
states in which our Regulated Businesses operate. These programs consist of both rehabilitation of existing mains and replacement of mains that have reached the end of their useful service life.







Our ability to meet the existing and future water demands of our customers depends on an
adequate supply of water. Drought, governmental restrictions, overuse of sources of water, the protection of threatened species or habitats or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water. When weather conditions are
extremely dry and even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers, our systems may be affected by drought-related warnings and/or water usage restrictions imposed by governmental agencies, purchase supply allocations and mandatory
conservation measures. These restrictions may be imposed at a regional or state level and may affect our service areas regardless of our readiness to meet unrestricted customer demands. We employ a variety of measures to ensure that we have adequate
sources of water supply, both in the short-term and over the long-term. The geographic diversity of our service areas tends to mitigate some of the effect of weather extremes for the Company as a whole. In any given summer, some areas are likely to
experience drier than average weather while other areas will experience wetter than average weather.

Our Regulated Businesses
are dependent upon a defined source of water supply. Our Regulated Businesses obtain their water supply from surface water sources such as reservoirs, lakes, rivers and streams. In addition, we also obtain water from wells and purchase water from
other water suppliers.

The following chart sets forth the sources of water supply for our Regulated Businesses for 2010 by
volume:



In our long-term planning, we evaluate quality, quantity, growth needs and alternate sources of water
supply as well as transmission and distribution capacity. Sources of supply are seasonal in nature and weather conditions can have a pronounced effect on supply. In order to ensure that we have adequate sources of water supply, we use comprehensive
planning processes and maintain drought and contingency plans to minimize the potential impact on service through a wide range of weather fluctuations. In connection with supply planning for most surface or groundwater sources, we employ
sophisticated models to determine safe yields under different rainfall and drought conditions. Surface and groundwater levels are routinely monitored for all supplies so that supply capacity may be predicted and mitigated, as needed, through demand
management and additional supply development.







The percentage of finished water supply by source type for our top seven states by Regulated
Businesses revenues for 2010 is as follows:



Ground WaterSurface waterPurchased waterNew Jersey28%67%5%Pennsylvania6%93%1%Illinois30%56%14%Missouri(a)12%87%1%Indiana57%42%1%California(b)68%—32%West Virginia—99%1%



(a)There are limitations in our Joplin service area where the projected source of water supply capacity is unable to meet projected peak demands under drought conditions.
To manage this issue on the demand side, the water use of a large industrial customer has been restricted under an interruptible tariff. Additional wells have been and will be developed to address short-term supply deficiencies. Missouri-American
Water Company is working with a consortium of agencies to determine a long-term supply solution for the Joplin, Missouri region.

(b)In Monterey, in order to augment our sources of water supply, we have implemented conservation rates and other programs to address demand, are utilizing aquifer storage
and recovery facilities to store winter water for summer use and in December 2010, we obtained approval from the California Public Utility Commission for construction of a regional desalination plant. We also are designing new groundwater wells in
our Larkfield district, and in other areas, we are making arrangements to extend or expand our purchase of water from neighboring water providers.

The level of water treatment that we apply varies significantly depending upon the quality of the water source and customer stipulations. Surface water sources, such as rivers, typically require
significant treatment, while some groundwater sources, such as aquifers, require chemical treatment only. In addition, a small amount of treated water is purchased from neighboring water purveyors. Treated water is transported through an extensive
transmission and distribution network, which includes underground pipes, above ground storage facilities and numerous pumping facilities with the ultimate distribution of the treated water to the customers’ premises. We also have installed
production meters to measure the water that we deliver to our distribution network. We employ a variety of methods of customer meter reading to monitor consumption; ranging from meters with mechanical registers where consumption is manually recorded
by meter readers to meters with electronic registers capable of transmitting consumption data to proximity devices (touch read) or via radio frequency to mobile or fixed network data collecters. The majority of new meters are able to support future
advances in electronic meter reading.

Wastewater services involve the collection of wastewater from customers’ premises
through sewer lines. The wastewater is then transported through a sewer network to a treatment facility, where it is treated to meet required effluent standards. The treated wastewater is finally returned to the environment as effluent, and the
solid waste byproduct of the treatment process is disposed of in accordance with local standards.

Customers

We have a large and geographically diverse customer base in our Regulated Businesses. For the purposes of our Regulated Businesses, each
active customer represents a connection to our water and/or wastewater networks. As in the case of apartment complexes, businesses and many homes, multiple individuals may be served by a single connection.

Residential customers make up the large majority of our customer base in all of the states in which we operate. In 2010, residential
customers accounted for 91.4% of the customers and 60.3% of the operating revenue







of our Regulated Businesses. Residential customers generally provide for stable operating revenue over time and across regions. We also serve commercial customers, such as shops and businesses,
industrial customers, such as large-scale manufacturing and production operations, and public authorities, such as government buildings and other public sector facilities, including schools. We supply water to private fire customers for use in fire
suppression systems in office buildings and other facilities and also provide bulk water supplies to other water utilities for distribution to their own customers.

The following table sets forth the number of water and wastewater customers (by customer class) for our Regulated Businesses as of December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008:



December 31,201020092008WaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterResidential2,896,777151,1222,888,667149,9692,883,255149,007Commercial226,1566,615226,1296,552224,9696,540Industrial4,160134,375134,53714Private fire34,4511333,911432,7534Public authority & other16,00920216,00820116,023221Total3,177,553157,9653,169,090156,7393,161,537155,786

The following table sets forth water services operating revenue by customer class and wastewater services
operating revenue, excluding other water revenues, for our Regulated Businesses for 2010, 2009, and 2008:



Year Ended December 31,201020092008(in millions)Water serviceResidential$1,384.3$1,259.9$1,195.1Commercial472.9429.1406.2Industrial112.599.7101.8Public and other296.6272.0255.6Total water services$2,266.3$2,060.7$1,958.7Wastewater services94.989.980.2Total$2,361.2$2,150.6$2,038.9

Substantially all of our regulated water customers are metered, which allows us to measure and bill for our
customers’ water consumption, typically on a monthly basis. Our wastewater customers are billed either on a fixed charge basis or based on their water consumption.

Customer usage of water is affected by weather conditions, particularly during the summer. Our water systems generally experience higher demand in the summer due to the warmer temperatures and increased
usage by customers for lawn irrigation and other outdoor uses. Summer weather that is cooler and wetter than average generally serves to suppress customer water demand and can have a downward effect on water operating revenue and operating income.
Conversely, when weather conditions are extremely dry and even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers, our systems may be affected by drought-related warnings and/or water usage restrictions imposed by governmental agencies,
thereby reducing customer demand and operating revenue. These restrictions may be imposed at a regional or state level and may affect our service areas, regardless of our readiness to meet unrestricted customer demands. Other factors affecting our
customers’ usage of water include conservation initiatives, including the use of more efficient household fixtures and appliances among residential







consumers; declining household sizes in the United States; and deterioration in the economy and credit markets which could have an adverse impact on our industrial and commercial customers’
operational and financial performance.

Supplies

Our water and wastewater operations require an uninterrupted supply of chemicals, energy and fuel, as well as maintenance material and other critical inputs. Many of these inputs are subject to short-term
price volatility. Short-term volatility is partially mitigated through existing procurement contracts, current supplier continuity plans and the regulatory rate setting process.

Because of our geographic diversity, we maintain relationships with many chemical, equipment and service suppliers in the marketplace,
and we do not rely on any single entity for a material amount of our supplies. We also employ a strategic sourcing process intended to ensure reliability in supply and long-term cost effectiveness. As a result of our strategic sourcing process and
our strong relationships with suppliers, we are able to mitigate interruptions in the delivery of the products and services that are critical to our operations. For example, during Hurricane Katrina, we were challenged to locate chemical suppliers
not affected by the hurricane. As a result of our previously negotiated and established relationships with a network of preferred suppliers, we were able to secure a supply of materials and to continue our operations in the affected areas without
interruptions.

We typically have a combination of standby power generation or dual electric service feeds at key facilities,
multiple water production facilities, emergency interconnections with adjacent water systems and finished water storage that keep our operations running in the event of a temporary loss of our primary energy supplies.

Regulation

Economic
Regulation

Economic regulation of utilities involves many competing, and occasionally
conflicting, public interests and policy goals. The primary responsibility of state PUCs is to maintain the overall public interest by balancing the interests of customers and the utility and its stockholders. For example, it may be cost beneficial
to develop a new treatment plant, but aquifer and land use concerns may suggest the higher cost alternative of piping the resource to the customer. Although the specific approach to economic regulation does vary, certain general







principles are consistent across the states in which our regulated subsidiaries operate. Based on the United States Constitution and state constitutions that prohibit confiscation of property
without due process of law and just compensation, as well as state statutory provisions and court precedent, utilities are entitled to recover, through rates charged to customers, prudent and reasonable operating costs as well as an opportunity to
earn an appropriate return on and recovery of prudent, used and useful capital investment necessary to provide service to customers. The state PUCs will also generally accord a utility the right to serve specific areas and will also provide
investor-owned utilities with limited protection from competition because the requirement of an investor-owned utility to operate pursuant to a certificate of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) typically prevents other
investor-owned utilities from competing with it in the authorized area. In return, the utility undertakes the obligation to provide reliable service on a nondiscriminatory basis to all customers within the authorized area.

Our operating revenue is typically determined by reference to a volumetric charge based on consumption and a base fee component set by a
tariff approved by the relevant state PUC. Certain states have approved consolidated rates or single-tariff pricing. Consolidated rates or single-tariff pricing is the use of a unified rate structure for multiple water systems that are owned and
operated by a single utility, but may or may not be contiguous or physically interconnected. The single-tariff pricing structure may be used fully or partially in a state and based on costs that are determined on a state-wide or intra-state regional
basis, thereby moderating the impact of periodic fluctuations in local costs while lowering administrative costs for us and our customers. For states that do not employ single tariffs, we may have multiple general rate cases filed at any given point
in time.

The evidence is presented in public hearings in connection with the rate case. These hearings, which are economic
and service quality fact-finding in nature, are typically conducted in a trial-like setting before the state PUC or an administrative law judge. During the process, the utility is required to provide PUC staff and interveners with all relevant
information they may request concerning the utility’s operations, costs and investments. The sworn evidentiary record forms the basis for a state PUC decision.

Some state PUCs are more restrictive than others with regard to the types of expenses and investments that may be recovered in rates as well as with regard to the transparency of their rate-making
processes and how they reach their final rate determinations. However, in evaluating a rate case, state PUCs typically focus on the aforementioned six areas:



•the amount and prudence of investment in facilities considered “used and useful” in providing public service;



•the operating and maintenance costs and taxes associated with providing the service;



•the appropriate return on equity;



•the tariff or rate design that allocates revenue requirements equitably among the customer classes;







•the quality of service the utility provides, including issues raised by customers; and



•revenue at existing rates.

Our regulated subsidiaries also pursue methods to minimize the adverse impact of regulatory lag and have worked with state PUCs and legislatures to implement a number of approaches to achieve this result.
A number of states in which our Regulated Businesses operate have adopted efficient rate policies, including some form of single-tariff pricing, forward-looking test years, pass-through provisions or infrastructure surcharges. States that have
adopted a full or partial single-tariff pricing policy include: Pennsylvania, New Jersey, West Virginia, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and Iowa. Therefore, of our seven largest states, five have some form of single-tariff pricing.

Forward-looking test years and infrastructure surcharges reduce, but may not eliminate, the regulatory lag associated with the
traditional method of recovering rates from state PUCs. Forward-looking test year mechanisms allow us to earn, on a more current basis, a return of our current or projected costs and a rate of return on our current or projected invested capital and
other “known and measurable changes” in our business. Some states have permitted use of a fully forecasted test year instead of historical data to set rates. Examples of these states include: Illinois, Kentucky, New York, Tennessee and
California. In all states in which we operate on a regulated basis, PUCs have allowed utilities to update historical data for some changes that occur for some limited period of time subsequent to the historical test year. This allows utilities to
take account of some more current costs or capital investments in the rate-setting process. The extent to which historical data can be updated will generally vary from state to state and depends on whether the changes are known and measurable.







Also, some of the states in which we operate permit pass-through provisions that allow for
an increase in certain operating costs, such as purchased power and property taxes to be passed on to and recovered from customers outside of a general rate case proceeding.

Another regulatory mechanism to address issues of regulatory lag includes the potential ability, in certain circumstances, to recover in rates a return on utility plant before it is in service, instead of
capitalizing an allowance for funds used during construction. Examples of states that have allowed such recovery include: Pennsylvania, Ohio, Kentucky, Virginia, Illinois and California.

In addition, some states have permitted us to seek pre-approval of certain capital projects and associated costs. In this pre-approval
process, the PUCs assess the prudency of such projects.

In some states, the PUC has implemented mechanisms to enhance utility
revenue stability in light of conservation initiatives, decreasing per capita consumption or other factors. Sometimes referred to as “decoupling,” these mechanisms, to some extent, separate recoverable revenues from volumes of water sold.
For example, the state of California has decoupled revenues from water sold to help achieve their initiative to reduce water usage by 20% by 2020. This progressive regulation enables utilities to focus on conservation as revenues are not tied to
sales. Also, as a result of this regulation, utilities would be less susceptible to consumption changes as a result of conservation, declining per capita usage or other factors affecting consumption. Likewise, New York has implemented a surcharge or
credit based on the difference between actual net revenues for the preceding year and the net revenue target as estimated in the most recent rate case.

The infrastructure surcharge, pass-through provisions, the forward-looking test year and the allowance of a return on utility plant before it is actually in service are examples of mechanisms that present
an opportunity to limit the risks associated with regulatory lag. Where allowed, we employ each of these mechanisms as part of our rate case management program to ensure efficient recovery of our costs and investment and to ensure positive
short-term liquidity and long-term profitability. The ability of the Company to seek regulatory treatment as described above does not guarantee that the state PUCs will accept the Company’s proposal in the context of a particular rate case.
However, the Company strives to use these and other regulatory policies to address issues of regulatory lag wherever appropriate. It is also our strategy to expand their use in areas where they may not currently apply.

Environmental, Health and Safety and Water Quality Regulation

Our water and wastewater operations are subject to extensive United States federal, state and local laws and regulations, and in the case of our Canadian operations, Canadian laws and regulations
governing the protection of the environment, health and safety, the quality of the water we deliver to our customers, water allocation rights and the manner in which we collect, treat, discharge and dispose of wastewater. We are also subject to
certain regulations regarding fire protection services in the areas we serve. These regulations include the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act and other federal, state, local and Canadian laws and regulations governing the provision of
water and wastewater services, particularly with respect to the quality of water we distribute. We also are subject to various federal, state, local and Canadian laws and regulations governing the storage of hazardous materials, the management and
disposal of hazardous and solid wastes, discharges to air and water, the cleanup of contaminated sites, dam safety and other matters relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety. State PUCs also set conditions and standards
for the water and wastewater services we deliver.

Environmental, health and safety and water quality regulations are complex
and change frequently. The overall trend has been that they have become more stringent over time. We face the risk that as newer or stricter standards are introduced, they could increase our operating costs. We incur substantial costs associated
with compliance with environmental, health and safety and water quality regulation to which our Regulated Businesses are subject. In the past, we have generally been able to recover costs associated with compliance related to environmental, health
and safety standards, but this recovery is affected by regulatory lag and the corresponding uncertainties surrounding rate recovery.

We maintain a comprehensive environmental policy including: responsible business practices, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, effective use of natural resources, and stewardship of
biodiversity. We believe that our operations are materially in compliance with, and in many cases surpass, minimum standards







required by applicable environmental laws and regulations. Water samples across our water system are analyzed on a regular basis for material compliance with regulatory requirements. Across the
Company, we conduct over one million water quality tests each year at our laboratory facilities and plant operations including continuous on-line instrumentations such as monitoring turbidity levels, disinfectant residuals and adjustments to
chemical treatment based on changes in incoming water. For 2010, we achieved a score of greater than a 99.9% for drinking water compliance—a fact that we are immensely proud of—and according to the EPA statistics, American Water’s
performance has been far better than the industry average over the last several years. In fact, in 2009, American Water was 43 times better than the industry average for compliance with drinking water quality standards (Maximum Contaminant
Levels) and 81 times better for compliance with drinking water monitoring and reporting requirements.

We participate in the
Partnership for Safe Water, the United States EPA’s voluntary program to meet more stringent goals for reducing microbial contaminants. With 66 of our 87 surface water plants receiving the program’s “Director” award, we account
for approximately one-third of the 200 plants receiving such awards nationwide. In addition, 62 American Water plants have received the “Five-Year Phase III” award, while 26 have been awarded the “Ten-Year Phase III” award.

Safe Drinking Water Act

The Federal Safe Drinking Water Act and regulations promulgated thereunder establish national quality standards for drinking water. The EPA has issued rules governing the levels of numerous naturally
occurring and man-made chemical and microbial contaminants and radionuclides allowable in drinking water and continues to propose new rules. These rules also prescribe testing requirements for detecting contaminants, the treatment systems which may
be used for removing contaminants and other requirements. Federal and state water quality requirements have become increasingly more stringent, including increased water testing requirements, to reflect public health concerns.

To effectuate the removal or inactivation of microbial organisms, the EPA has promulgated various rules to improve the disinfection and
filtration of drinking water and to reduce consumers’ exposure to disinfectants and byproducts of the disinfection process. In January 2006, the EPA promulgated the Long-term 2 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule and the Stage 2 Disinfectants
and Disinfection Byproduct Rule. In October 2006, the EPA finalized the Ground Water Rule, applicable to water systems providing water from underground sources. In 2006, the EPA also proposed revisions to the monitoring and reporting requirements of
the existing Lead and Copper Rule. In 2011, we anticipate that the EPA will propose revisions to the Total Coliform Rule. We have been actively involved in the revisions to this rule and were part of a Federal Advisory Committee appointed to
negotiate the changes. The EPA is actively considering regulations for a number of contaminants, including hexavalent chromium, fluoride, nitrosamines, perchlorate, some pharmaceuticals and certain volatile organic compounds, but we do not
anticipate that any of these regulations will be completed in 2011.

Although it is difficult to project the ultimate costs of
complying with the above or other pending or future requirements, we do not expect current requirements under the Safe Drinking Water Act to have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. In addition, capital expenditures and
operating costs to comply with environmental mandates traditionally have been recognized by PUCs as appropriate for inclusion in establishing rates. As a result, we expect to fully recover the operating and capital costs resulting from these pending
or future requirements.

Clean Water Act

The Federal Clean Water Act regulates discharges from drinking water and wastewater treatment facilities into lakes, rivers, streams and groundwater. In addition to requirements applicable to our
wastewater collection systems, our operations require discharge permits under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, (“NPDES”), permit program established under the Clean Water Act. Pursuant to the NPDES program, the EPA







or implementing states set maximum discharge limits for wastewater effluents and overflows from wastewater collection systems. We believe that we maintain the necessary permits and approvals for
the discharges from our water and wastewater facilities. From time to time, discharge violations occur at our facilities, some of which result in fines. We do not expect any such violations or fines to have a material impact on our results of
operations or financial condition.

Other Environmental, Health and Safety and Water Quality Matters

Our operations also involve the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. For example, our water and wastewater
treatment facilities store and use chlorine and other chemicals which generate wastes that require proper handling and disposal under applicable environmental requirements. We also could incur remedial costs in connection with any contamination
relating to our operations or facilities or our off-site disposal of wastes. Although we are not aware of any material cleanup or decontamination obligations, the discovery of contamination or the imposition of such obligations in the future could
result in additional costs. Our facilities and operations also are subject to requirements under the United States Occupational Safety and Health Act and are subject to inspections thereunder. For further information, see
“Business—Research and Development.”

Certain of our subsidiaries are involved in pending legal proceedings
relating to environmental matters. These proceedings are described further in the section entitled “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.”

Competition and Condemnation

In our Regulated Businesses, we generally do not face direct or indirect competition in providing services in our existing markets because (i) we operate within those markets pursuant to certificates
of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) issued by state PUCs; and (ii) the high cost of constructing a new water and wastewater system in an existing market creates a barrier to market entry. Our Regulated Businesses do
face competition from governmental agencies, other investor-owned utilities and strategic buyers that are entering new markets and/or making strategic acquisitions. Consolidation is changing the competitive landscape as small local utilities
struggle to meet their capital spending requirements and look to partner with investor-owned utilities. We also face competition in offering services to new real estate developers, where we compete with others on the basis of the financial terms we
offer for our services, the availability of water and our ability to commence providing services on a timely basis. Our largest investor-owned competitors, based on a comparison of operating revenues and population served, are Aqua America Inc.,
United Water (owned by Suez Environnement), American States Water Co. and California Water Services Group.

The certificates
of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) pursuant to which we operate our Regulated Businesses do not prevent municipalities and rural water and wastewater districts from competing with us to provide water and wastewater
utility services. Further, the potential exists that portions of our subsidiaries’ utility assets could be acquired by municipalities or other local government entities through one or more of the following methods:



•eminent domain (also known as condemnation);



•the right of purchase given or reserved by a municipality or political subdivision when the original certificate was granted; and



•the right of purchase given or reserved under the law of the state in which the utility subsidiary was incorporated or from which it received its
certificate.

The acquisition consideration related to such a transaction initiated by a local government
may be determined consistent with applicable eminent domain law, or may be negotiated or fixed by appraisers as prescribed by the law of the state or in the particular franchise or charter. We believe our operating subsidiaries







would be entitled to fair market value for any assets required to be sold, and we are of the opinion that fair market value would be in excess of the book value for such assets.

We are periodically subject to condemnation proceedings in the ordinary course of business. On September 5, 2008, pursuant to a
condemnation proceeding, California-American Water Company (“CAWC”) sold the assets of our Felton, California water system, which served approximately 1,330 customers, to the San Lorenzo Valley Water District. The next most recent sale of
our water and wastewater systems under threat of condemnation occurred in 2003. We actively monitor condemnation activities that may affect us as soon as we become aware of them. We do not believe that condemnation poses a material threat to our
ability to operate our Regulated Businesses.

Our Market-Based Operation

In addition to our Regulated Businesses, we operate the following Market-Based Operations, which generated $311.8 million of
operating revenue in 2010 representing 11.5% of total operating revenue for the same periods. Of the lines of business outlined below, no single group within our Market-Based Operations generates in excess of 10% of our aggregate revenue.

Contract Operations Group

Our Contract Operations Group enters into public/private partnerships, including O&M and DBO contracts for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities for the United States military,
municipalities, the food and beverage industry and other customers. We typically make no capital investment under these contracts with municipalities and other customers; instead we perform our services for a fee. During the contract term, we may
make limited capital investments under our contracts with the United States military and certain industrial customers. Our Contract Operations Group generated revenue of $225.3 million in 2010, representing 72.3% of revenue for our Market-Based
Operations.

We are currently party to more than 250 contracts, varying in size and scope, across the United States and
Canada, with contracts ranging in term from two to 50 years. Included in the these contracts are nine 50-year contracts with the Department of Defense for the operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater systems and one 3-year sub-contract
with a municipality, acting as primary contractor with the Department of Defense, for similar services on an interim basis until construction of new connections to an existing municipal facility is completed. All of our contracts with the U.S.
government may be terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the 50-year term for convenience of the U.S. government or as a result of default or non-performance by the subsidiary performing the contract. In either event, pursuant to the
standard terms of the U.S. government contract termination provisions, we would be entitled to recover allowable costs that we may have incurred under the contract, plus the contract profit margin. The contract price for each of these contracts is
subject to redetermination two years after commencement of operations and every three years thereafter. Price redetermination is a contract mechanism to periodically adjust the service fee in the next period to reflect changes in contract
obligations and anticipated market conditions.

Homeowner Services Group

Our Homeowner Services Group through our Service Line Protection Program, provides services to domestic homeowners and smaller commercial
establishments to protect against the cost of repairing broken or leaking water pipes and clogged or blocked sewer pipes inside and outside their accommodations.

We recently introduced LineSaver™, an exclusive program for municipalities and public water systems that is available across the country. The LineSaver™ program involves partnering with
municipalities to offer our protection programs to homeowners serviced by the municipal system.







We entered into our first LineSaver™ program partnership with the city of Trenton, New Jersey and are currently discussing partnerships with municipalities across the nation. The Homeowner
Services Group has also launched the LineSaver™ Program in Burlington, Iowa.

Our Homeowner Services Group has
approximately 835,000 customer contracts in 17 of the states where we operate our Regulated Businesses.

Terratec Environmental Ltd

Our Market-Based Operations also includes our biosolids management group, Terratec, which is located in Canada
and provides environmentally sustainable management and disposal of biosolids and wastewater by-products.

Competition

We face competition in our Market-Based Operations from a number of service providers, including Veolia Environnement,
American States, OMI and Southwest Water, particularly in the area of O&M contracting. Securing new O&M contracts is highly competitive, as these contracts are awarded based on a combination of customer relationships, service levels,
competitive pricing, references and technical expertise. We also face competition in maintaining existing O&M contracts to which we are a party, as these fixed term contracts frequently come up for renegotiation and are subject to an open
bidding process.

Long-term Opportunities

In the course of pursuing our long-term strategy and growth initiatives, we will concentrate on optimizing our Regulated Businesses’ portfolio as well as sharpening our focus on our Market-Based
Operations. Optimization of the portfolio may include acquisition of water or wastewater utilities as well as the divestiture of certain operating companies as the result of the regulatory environment or size.

While our business mix will
continue to focus predominantly on regulated activities, we will pursue opportunities in the Market-Based Operations that are complementary to our Regulated Businesses and our capabilities. Our focus will center around public/private partnerships,
including municipalities and divisions of the United States Department of Defense as well as industrial customers. We will continue to capitalize on our







O&M expertise and our existing municipal and federal government relationships while building on our customer base in the industrial sector in identifying and bidding for new ventures that
have attractive risk and return characteristics. We will also expand our Homeowner Services business with homeowners and smaller commercial establishments in areas within and beyond our existing regulated footprint.

Currently, management is performing a strategic review of American Water’s portfolio of regulated and market-based business
activities designed to identify potential opportunities for achieving a more rationalized portfolio, cost structure improvements and an enhanced financial profile. As a consequence of this review, management may dispose of certain assets or
operations or acquire others.

In December 2010, we announced that our subsidiary, Missouri-American Water Company
(“MAWC”) entered into an agreement to purchase 11 regulated water systems and 59 wastewater systems in Missouri for approximately $3 million. The transaction, which requires approval by the Missouri Public Service Commission, expands
MAWC’s presence in Missouri by approximately 10,000 people. Also, at the same time, we announced that we entered into a separate agreement to sell our regulated 51 water and five wastewater systems in Texas for approximately $6 million.
Texas-American Water Company serves approximately 16,000 people in the greater Houston metropolitan area. The acquisition requires approval by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. This transaction is a way to strengthen our operations, by
creating better economies of scale and providing additional opportunities for both companies to continue providing excellent, local customer service.

In January 2011, we announced that we had entered into an agreement with EPCOR Water (USA) Inc. (“EPCOR USA”) to sell 100 percent of the stock of our regulated water and wastewater operating
companies located in Arizona and New Mexico, for an estimated sale price of $470 million, subject to certain adjustments. Our total investment in both subsidiaries was approximately $450 million as of December 31, 2010. We plan to use the
proceeds from the sale to reduce both equity and debt financing. The completion of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions including regulatory approval by the PUCs in both Arizona and New Mexico.

Research and Development

We established a formal research and development program in 1981 with the goal of improving water quality and operational effectiveness in
all areas of our business. Our research and development personnel are located in New Jersey. In addition, our quality control and testing laboratory in Belleville, Illinois supports research through sophisticated testing and analysis. Since its
inception, our research and development program has evolved to become a leading water-related research program, achieving advancements in the science of drinking water, including sophisticated water testing procedures and desalination technologies.

Since the formation of the EPA in 1970, we have collaborated with the agency to achieve effective environmental, health and
safety and water quality regulation. This relationship has developed to include sharing of our research and national water quality monitoring data in addition to our treatment and distribution system optimization research. Our engagement with the
EPA has helped us to achieve a leadership position for our company within the water and wastewater industry and has provided us with early insight into emerging regulatory issues and initiatives; thereby allowing us to anticipate and to accommodate
our future compliance requirements.

In 2010, we spent $2.77 million on research and development, which represents an increase
of 0.7% over the $2.75 million spent in 2009. We spent $2.5 million on research and development costs in 2008. Approximately one-quarter of our research budget is comprised of competitively awarded outside research grants. Such
grants reduce the cost of research and allow collaboration with leading national and international researchers.







We believe that continued research and development activities are critical in providing
quality and reliable service at reasonable rates, maintaining our leadership position in the industry and will provide us with a competitive advantage as we seek additional business with new and existing customers.

Support Services

Our
American Water Works Service Company subsidiary provides shared services and corporate governance that achieve economies of scale through central administration. These services are provided predominantly to our Regulated Businesses under the terms
of contracts with these companies that have been approved by state PUCs, where necessary. These services, which are provided at cost, may include accounting, administration, business development, corporate secretarial, education and training,
engineering, financial, health and safety, human resources, information systems, legal, operations, procurement, rates, security, risk management, water quality and research and development. Limited services are also provided to our Market-Based
Operations. These arrangements afford our operating companies professional and technical talent on an economical and timely basis.

We operate two national customer service centers, which are located in Alton, Illinois and Pensacola, Florida and employ approximately 700 people in total.

Our security department provides oversight and governance of physical and information security throughout our operations and is
responsible for designing, implementing, monitoring and supporting active and effective physical and information security controls. We have complied with EPA regulations concerning vulnerability assessments and have made filings to the EPA as
required. Vulnerability assessments are conducted regularly to evaluate the effectiveness of existing security controls and serve as the basis for further capital investment in security for the facility. Information security controls are deployed or
integrated to prevent unauthorized access to company information systems, assure the continuity of business processes dependent upon automation, ensure the integrity of our data and support regulatory and legislative compliance requirements. While
we do not make public comments on the details of our security programs, we are in contact with federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to coordinate and improve the security of our water delivery systems and to safeguard our water supply.

Employee Matters

Currently, we employ approximately 7,600 full-time employees. Of these, approximately 3,700 or 49% are represented by unions. We have 84 collective bargaining agreements in place with 18 different unions
representing our unionized employees. In September 2010, we declared “impasse” in negotiations of our national benefits agreement with most of the labor unions representing employees in our Regulated Businesses. The prior agreement expired
on July 31, 2010, however negotiations did not produce a new agreement. The Company implemented our “last, best and final” offer in order not to disrupt health care coverage for our employees. At this time, we don’t believe that
this circumstance will result in a system wide work stoppage. However, management has developed contingency plans that will be implemented as necessary if a work stoppage or strike does occur. Management does not expect that such a work stoppage or
strike would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows of the Company. Over one-third of our local union contracts will expire during 2011. In addition to the expired national benefit agreement,
seven local union contracts covering approximately 1,000 employees expired without a new agreement being reached prior to December 31, 2010. In regards to these contracts, there have been no work stoppages.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We file or furnish annual, quarterly and
current reports, proxy statements and other information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may obtain a copy of any of these reports, free of charge, from the Investor Relations section of our website,http://www.amwater.com,shortly after we file or furnish the information to the SEC. Information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this report.







You may also obtain a copy of any of these reports directly from the SEC. You may read and
copy any material we file or furnish with the SEC at their Public Reference Room, located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The phone number for information about the operation of the Public Reference Room is 1-800-732-0330 (if you are
calling from within the United States), or 202-551-8090. Because we electronically file our reports, you may also obtain this information from the SEC internet website athttp://www.sec.gov.You can obtain additional contact information for
the SEC on their website.

The American Water corporate governance guidelines and the charters for each of the standing
committees of the board of directors together with the American Water Code of Ethics and additional information regarding our corporate governance, are available on our website,http://www.amwater.com,and will be made available, without
charge, in print to any shareholder who requests such documents from Investor Relations Department, American Water Works Company, Inc., 1025 Laurel Oak Road, Voorhees, NJ, 08043.



