ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our
Company

American Water Works Company, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, is the most geographically diversified as well as the
largest investor-owned United States water and wastewater utility company, as measured by both operating revenue and population served. Our more than 7,000 employees provide approximately 16 million people with drinking water, wastewater and
other water-related services in 35 states and two Canadian provinces.

In 2009, we generated $2,440.7 million in total
operating revenue and $173.6 million in operating income, which includes $450.0 million of impairment charges and a net loss of $233.1 million. In 2008, we generated $2,336.9 million in total operating revenue, representing approximately four
times the operating revenue of the next largest investor-owned company in the United States water and wastewater business, and $186.9 million in operating loss, which includes $750.0 million of impairment charges relating to continuing operations
and a net operating loss of $562.4 million.

We have two operating segments that are also the Company’s two reportable
segments, which we refer to as the Regulated Businesses and Non-Regulated Businesses segments. For further details on our segments, see Note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Without giving effect to inter-segment eliminations, for 2009, our Regulated Businesses generated $2,207.3 million in operating revenue,
which accounted for 90.4% of total operating revenue. For the same period, our Non-Regulated Businesses generated $257.7 million in operating revenue, which accounted for 10.6% of total consolidated operating revenue.

For additional financial information, please see the financial statements and related notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Our History as a Public Company

The Company was founded in 1886 as the American Water Works & Guarantee Company for the purposes of building and purchasing water systems in McKeesport, Pennsylvania. In 1935, the Company was
reorganized under its current name, and in 1947 the common stock of the Company became publicly traded on the NYSE. Prior to being acquired in 2003 by RWE Aktiengesellschaft, which we refer to as RWE, a stock corporation incorporated in the Federal
Republic of Germany, we were the largest publicly traded water utility company as measured by both operating revenue and population served in the United States.

Acquisition and Completed Divestiture by RWE

In 2003, we were
acquired by RWE and were no longer a publicly traded company. In 2005, RWE decided to divest American Water and in March 2006, they decided to affect the divestiture through the sale of shares in one or more public offerings.

On April 28, 2008, RWE Aqua Holdings GmbH, a German limited liability company and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of RWE, which then
was the sole owner of the Company’s common stock, completed a partial divestiture of its investment through an initial public offering with the sale of 63.2 million shares of the Company’s common stock. Upon the completion of our
initial public offering in April 2008, we again became listed on the NYSE under the symbol “AWK” and resumed our position as the largest publicly traded water utility company in the United States. As of December 31, 2008, RWE owned
approximately 60% of the Company’s shares of common stock. On June 10, 2009 and August 18, 2009, RWE continued to divest of its







investment in our common stock through public offerings of an additional 15.4 million shares and 40.3 million shares, respectively. On November 24, 2009, RWE completed the sale in
a public offering of the remaining 41.1 million shares of our common stock, including 3.7 million shares sold upon underwriters’ exercise of their over-allotment option. As a result of the full exercise of the underwriter’s
option, RWE fully divested of our common stock.

Regulated Businesses Overview

Our primary business involves the ownership of water and wastewater utilities that provide water and wastewater services to residential,
commercial and industrial customers. Our subsidiaries that provide these services are generally subject to economic regulation by certain state commissions or other entities engaged in economic regulation, hereafter referred to as “PUCs”
in the states in which they operate. The federal government and the states also regulate environmental, health and safety, and water quality matters. We report the results of this business in our Regulated Businesses segment. For 2009, operating
revenue for our Regulated Businesses was $2,207.3 million prior to inter-segment eliminations, accounting for 90.4% of total operating revenue for the same period. Regulated Business operating revenues were $2,082.7 million for 2008 and
$1,987.6 million for 2007 accounting for 89.1% and 89.8% respectively, of total operating revenues for the same periods.

The
following charts set forth operating revenue for 2009 and customers as of December 31, 2009, for the states in which our Regulated Businesses provide services:



Regulated Businesses Operating Revenue(dollars in millions)Regulated Businesses Customers



Non-Regulated Businesses Overview

We also provide services that are not subject to economic regulation by state PUCs through our Non-Regulated Businesses. Our Non-Regulated
Businesses include our:



•Contract Operations Group, which enters into public/private partnerships, including Operations and Maintenance, which we refer to as O&M contracts,
and Design, Build and Operate, which we refer to as DBO contracts for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities for municipalities, the







United States military and other customers. In December 2009, we acquired Environmental Management Corporation (“EMC”), which provides integrated solutions for water, wastewater and
other related assets to industrial and municipal customers in the United States and Canada.



•Applied Water Management Group, which works with customers to design and build small water and wastewater treatment plants;



•Homeowner Services Group, which provides services to domestic homeowners to protect against the cost of repairing broken or leaking pipes inside and
outside their homes; and



•Terratec Environmental Ltd., which we refer to as Terratec, which primarily provides wastewater, residuals transport, disposal and management services
to municipal and industrial customers.

We report the results of these lines of business in our
Non-Regulated Businesses segment. For 2009, operating revenue for our Non-Regulated Businesses was $257.7 million prior to inter-segment eliminations, accounting for 10.6% of total operating revenue for the same period. Non-Regulated Business
operating revenues were $272.2 million for 2008 and $242.7 million for 2007 accounting for 11.6% and 11.0% respectively, of total operating revenues for the same periods.

Our Industry

Overview

The United States water and wastewater industry has two main segments: (i) utility, which involves supplying water and wastewater
services to consumers; and (ii) general services, which involves providing water and wastewater related services to water and wastewater utilities and other customers on a contract basis.

The utility segment includes municipal systems that are owned and operated by local governments or governmental subdivisions, and
investor-owned systems. The Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) estimates that government-owned systems make up the vast majority of the United States water and wastewater utility segment, accounting for approximately 84% of all United
States community water systems and approximately 98% of all United States community wastewater systems. Investor-owned water and wastewater systems account for the remainder of the United States water and wastewater community water systems. Growth
of service providers in the regulated utility segment is achieved through acquisitions, including small water and wastewater systems, typically serving fewer than 10,000 customers that are in close geographic proximity to our Regulated Business
operations. These smaller acquisitions we refer to as “tuck-ins,” of other water and wastewater systems and organic growth of the population served by such providers.

The utility segment is characterized by high barriers to entry, including high capital spending requirements. Investor-owned water and
wastewater utilities also face regulatory approval processes in order to do business, which may involve obtaining relevant operating approvals, including certificates of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) from state PUCs.
Investor-owned water and wastewater systems are generally subject to economic regulation by the state PUCs in the states in which they operate. The federal government and the states also regulate environmental, health and safety and water quality
matters for both investor-owned and government-owned water and wastewater utilities.

The general services segment includes
engineering and consulting companies and numerous other fee-for-service businesses. These include the building and operating of water and wastewater utility systems, system repair services, lab services, sale of water infrastructure and distribution
products (such as pipes) and other specialized services. The general services segment is characterized by aggressive competition and market-driven growth and profit margins.







The aging water and wastewater infrastructure in the United States is in constant need of
modernization and facilities replacement. Increased regulations to improve water quality and the management of wastewater discharges, which began with passage of the Clean Water Act in 1972 and the Safe Drinking Water Act in 1974, have been among
the primary drivers of the need for modernization. The EPA estimates that approximately $335 billion of capital spending will be necessary between 2007 and 2026 to replace aging infrastructure and to comply with quality standards to ensure
quality water systems across the United States. In addition, the EPA estimates that approximately $390 billion of capital spending will be necessary over the next 20 years to replace aging infrastructure and ensure quality wastewater systems across
the United States.

The following chart sets forth estimated capital expenditure needs from 2007 through 2026 for United
States water systems:



Capital expenditures related to municipal water supply, treatment and distribution and wastewater
collection and treatment facilities are typically funded by water and wastewater rates, taxes or the issuance of bonds. However, raising large amounts of funds is challenging for municipal water utilities, which impacts their ability to increase
capital spending. In order to meet their capital spending challenges, many municipalities are examining a combination of privatizations and partnerships with the private sector. Privatization typically involves a transfer of responsibility for the
operation of the utility from the municipality to the private sector; and in some cases may involve ownership transfer, normally for specified long-term periods with transfer back to the municipality at expiration of the term of the agreement.
Partnerships between municipalities and the private sector include arrangements like O&M, DBO, Design, Build Operate/Maintain and Design, Build, Own, Operate/Maintain and Transfer contracts. Under these types of contracts, the municipality
either retains ownership or regains ownership of the water and/or wastewater system and the private sector takes responsibility for managing and operating the system.







Over the next several years, we estimate that Company-funded capital investment will total
between $800 million and $1 billion per year. Our capital investment includes both infrastructure renewal programs, where we replace existing infrastructure, as needed, and construction of facilities to meet new customer growth. The charts below set
forth our estimated percentage of projected capital expenditures by asset type and purpose of investment, respectively:



Fragmentation and Consolidation

According to the EPA, the utility segment of the United States water and wastewater industry is highly fragmented, with approximately 52,000 community water systems and approximately 16,000 community
wastewater facilities. As shown in the charts below, the majority of the approximately 52,000 community water systems are very small, serving a population of 500 or less.

The following charts set forth the total United States water industry by system type and the total population served by system type, respectively, for 2008: (Water Statistics):



Number of United States Water Systems by Type:*United States Population Served by Water System Type:*









This large number of relatively small water and wastewater utilities results in
inefficiencies in the marketplace, since smaller utilities may not have the operating expertise, financial and technological capability or economies of scale to provide services or raise capital as efficiently as larger utilities. These
inefficiencies may lead to industry consolidation in the future, as the larger investor-owned utilities acquire smaller, local water and wastewater systems. Larger utilities that have greater access to capital are generally more capable of making
mandated and other necessary infrastructure upgrades to both water and wastewater systems. In addition, water and wastewater utilities with large customer bases, spread across broad geographic regions, may more easily absorb the impact of adverse
weather, such as droughts, excessive rain and cool temperatures in specific areas. Larger utilities generally are able to spread overhead expenses over a larger customer base, thereby reducing the costs to serve each customer. Since many
administrative and support activities can be efficiently centralized to gain economies of scale and sharing of best practices, companies that participate in industry consolidation have the potential to improve operating efficiencies, lower unit
costs and improve service at the same time.

Water and Wastewater Rates

Investor-owned water and wastewater utilities generate operating revenue from customers based on rates that are established by state PUCs
through a rate-setting process that may include public hearings, evidentiary hearings and the submission by the utility of evidence and testimony in support of the requested level of rates. In evaluating a rate case, state PUCs typically focus on
five areas: (i) the amount and prudence of investment in facilities considered “used and useful” in providing public service; (ii) the operating and maintenance costs and taxes associated with providing the service (typically by
making reference to a representative 12-month period of time, known as a test year); (iii) the appropriate rate of return; (iv) the tariff or rate design that allocates operating revenue requirements equitably across the customer base; and
(v) the quality of service the utility provides, including issues raised by customers.

For most consumers, water and
wastewater bills make up a relatively small percentage of household expenditures compared to other utility services.

The
following chart sets forth the relative cost of water in the United States as a percentage of total household utility expenditures:



Our Regulated Businesses

Our core Regulated Businesses, which consist of locally managed utility subsidiaries that generally are economically regulated by the states in which they operate, accounted for approximately 90.4% of our
consolidated operating revenue in 2009. Our Regulated Businesses provide a high degree of financial stability because: (i) high barriers to entry provide limited protection from competitive pressures; (ii) economic regulation







promotes predictability in financial planning and long-term performance through the rate-setting process; and (iii) our largely residential customer base promotes consistent operating
results.

The following table sets forth operating revenue for 2009 and number of customers as well as an estimate of
population served as of December 31, 2009 for our regulated subsidiaries in the states where our Regulated Businesses provide services:



OperatingRevenue($ in millions)% of TotalNumber ofCustomers% of TotalEstimatedPopulationServed(In Millions)% of TotalNew Jersey(a)$560.325.4%644,27319.3%2.520.9%Pennsylvania459.820.8%652,27719.6%2.218.3%Missouri203.89.2%457,49613.7%1.512.5%Illinois(b)197.48.9%308,4769.3%1.210.0%Indiana157.47.1%283,0888.5%1.210.0%California142.76.5%171,8545.2%0.65.0%West Virginia(c)120.25.5%172,0065.2%0.65.0%Subtotal (Top Seven States)1,841.683.4%2,689,47080.8%9.881.7%Other(d)365.716.6%641,45919.2%2.218.3%Total Regulated Businesses$2,207.3100.0%3,330,929100.0%12.0100.0%



(a)Includes New Jersey American-Water Company, Inc., which we refer to as NJAWC, and Applied Wastewater Management Inc., which we refer to as AWWM (also regulated in New
Jersey)

(b)Includes Illinois-American Water Company, which we refer to as ILAWC and American Lake Water Company, also a regulated subsidiary in Illinois

(c)West Virginia-American Water Company, which we refer to as WVAWC, and its subsidiary Bluefield Valley Water Works Company

(d)Includes data from our operating subsidiaries in the following states: Arizona, Georgia, Hawaii, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Mexico, New York, Ohio,
Tennessee, Texas and Virginia.

Approximately 83.4% of operating revenue from our Regulated Businesses in 2009
was generated from approximately 2.7 million customers in our seven largest states, as measured by operating revenues. In fiscal year 2009, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our annual operating revenue.

Overview of Networks, Facilities and Water Supply

Our Regulated Businesses operate in approximately 1,600 communities in 20 states in the United States. Our primary operating assets include approximately 80 surface water treatment plants, 600 groundwater
treatment plants, 1,200 groundwater wells, 50 wastewater treatment facilities, 1,200 treated water storage facilities, 1,200 pumping stations and 100 dams and 49,000 miles of mains and collection pipes. We own substantially all of the assets used by
our Regulated Businesses. We generally own the land and physical assets used to store, extract and treat source water. Typically, we do not own the water itself, which is held in public trust and is allocated to us through contracts and allocation
rights granted by federal and state agencies or through the ownership of water rights pursuant to local law.

Maintaining the
reliability of our networks is a key activity of our Regulated Businesses. We have ongoing main renewal programs in all states in which our Regulated Businesses operate. These programs consist of both rehabilitation of existing mains and replacement
of mains that have reached the end of their useful service life. The decision of whether to replace or rehabilitate our mains is subject to considerations of age, cost, feasibility and customer service impact.







Our Regulated Businesses are dependent upon a defined source of water supply. Our Regulated
Businesses obtain their water supply from surface water sources such as reservoirs, lakes and rivers and streams. In addition, we also obtain water from wells and purchase water from other water suppliers.

The following chart sets forth the sources of water supply for our Regulated Businesses for 2009 by volume:



In our long-term planning, we are always evaluating quality, quantity, growth needs and alternate sources.
Sources of supply are seasonal in nature and weather conditions can have a pronounced effect on supply. In order to ensure that we have adequate sources of water supply, we use comprehensive planning processes and maintain drought and emergency
plans to minimize the impact on service through a wide range of weather fluctuations. In connection with supply planning for most surface or groundwater sources, we employ sophisticated models to determine safe yields under different rainfall and
drought conditions. Surface and groundwater levels are routinely monitored for all supplies so that supply capacity may be predicted and mitigated, as needed, through demand management and additional supply development.

The percentage of finished water supply by source type for our top seven states by Regulated Businesses revenues is as follows:



Ground WaterSurface waterPurchased waterNew Jersey24%71%5%Pennsylvania7%92%1%Illinois35%54%11%Missouri(a)13%86%1%Indiana56%43%1%California(b)69%1%30%West Virginia—100%—



(a)Limitations in our Joplin service area where the projected source of water supply capacity is unable to meet projected peak demands under drought conditions. To manage
this issue on the demand side, the water use of a large industrial customer has been restricted under an interruptible tariff. Additional wells have been and will be developed to address short-term supply deficiencies. Missouri-American Water
Company is working with a consortium of agencies to determine a long-term supply solution for the Joplin, Missouri region.

(b)In Monterey, in order to ensure that we have adequate sources of water supply, we have implemented conservation rates and other programs to address demand, have
invested in aquifer storage and recovery facilities as well as worked to develop solutions like the regional desalination plant. We also are designing new groundwater wells in our Larkfield district, and in other areas, we are making arrangements to
extend or expand our purchase of water from neighboring water providers. As part of our San Clemente Dam project, under the supervision of the Division of Safety of Dams, we also have been investigating alternatives for complying with seismic safety
requirements at our San Clemente Dam on the Carmel River, including strengthening or removing the dam.







The level of water treatment that we apply varies significantly depending upon the quality
of the water source. Surface water sources, such as rivers, typically require significant filtration, while some groundwater sources, such as aquifers, require chemical treatment only. In addition, a small amount of treated water is purchased from
neighboring water purveyors. Treated water is transported through an extensive transmission and distribution network, which includes underground pipes, above ground storage facilities and numerous pumping facilities with the ultimate distribution of
the treated water to the customers’ premises. We also have installed meters to measure the water that we deliver through our distribution network. We employ a variety of methods of meter reading to monitor consumption; ranging from basic
mechanical meters read by traveling meter readers to remote “drive-by” electronic meter reading equipment. The majority of new meters are able to support future advances in electronic meter reading.

The provision of wastewater services involves the collection of wastewater from customers’ premises through sewer lines. The wastewater
is then transported through a sewer network to a treatment facility, where it is treated to meet required effluent standards. The treated wastewater is finally returned to the environment as effluent, and the solid waste byproduct of the treatment
process is disposed of in accordance with local standards.

Customers

We have a large and geographically diverse customer base in our Regulated Businesses. For the purposes of our Regulated Businesses, each
customer represents a connection to our water and/or wastewater networks. As in the case of apartment complexes, businesses and many homes, multiple individuals may be served by a single connection.

Residential customers make up the large majority of customers in all of the states in which we operate. In 2009, residential customers
accounted for 91.2% of the customers and 58.8% of the operating revenue of our Regulated Businesses. Residential customers are highly predictable water and wastewater services consumers and they generate stable operating revenue over time and across
regions. We also serve commercial customers, such as shops and businesses, industrial customers, such as large-scale manufacturing and production operations, and public authorities, such as government buildings and other public sector facilities,
including schools. We supply water to private fire customers for use in fire suppression systems in office buildings and other facilities and also provide bulk water supplies to other water utilities that distribute them to their own customers.

The following table sets forth the number of water and wastewater customers (by customer class) for our Regulated Businesses
as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:



December 31,200920082007WaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterResidential2,889,315149,9692,883,903149,0072,878,971140,993Commercial226,5816,552225,4216,540226,4076,158Industrial4,375134,537144,64413Private fire37,911436,753435,46510Public authority & other16,00820116,02322116,090197Total3,174,190156,7393,166,637155,7863,161,577147,371







The following table sets forth water services operating revenue by customer class and
wastewater services operating revenue, excluding other water revenues, for our Regulated Businesses for 2009, 2008 and 2007:



Year Ended December 31,200920082007(in millions)Water serviceResidential$1,263.2$1,197.7$1,146.1Commercial425.7403.6385.3Industrial99.7101.894.7Public and other272.0255.6247.6Total water services$2,060.6$1,958.7$1,873.7Wastewater services89.779.975.6Total$2,150.3$2,038.6$1,949.3

Substantially, all of our regulated water customers
are metered, which allows us to measure and bill for our customers’ water consumption, typically on a monthly basis. Our wastewater customers are billed either on a fixed charge basis or based on their water consumption.

Customer usage of water is affected by weather conditions, particularly, during the summer. Our water systems experience higher demand in
the summer due to the warmer temperatures and increased usage by customers for lawn irrigation and other outdoor uses. Summer weather that is cooler and wetter than average generally serves to suppress customer water demand and can have a downward
effect on water operating revenue and operating income. Conversely, when weather conditions are extremely dry, our systems may be affected by drought-related warnings and/or water usage restrictions imposed by governmental agencies, also serving to
reduce customer demand and operating revenue. These restrictions may be imposed at a regional or state level and may affect our service areas, regardless of our readiness to meet unrestricted customer demands. Other factors affecting our
customers’ usage of water includes: declining household sizes in the United States; conservation initiatives, including the use of more efficient household fixtures and appliances among residential consumers; and the recent deterioration in the
economy and credit markets which is having an adverse impact on our industrial and commercial customers’ operational and financial performance.

Supplies

Our water and wastewater operations require an uninterrupted supply of chemicals, energy and
fuel, as well as maintenance material and other critical inputs. Many of these inputs are subject to short-term price volatility. Long-term volatility is partially mitigated through existing procurement contracts, current supplier continuity plans
and the regulatory rate setting process.

Because of our geographic diversity, we maintain relationships with many chemical,
equipment and service suppliers in the marketplace, and we do not rely on any single entity for a material amount of our supplies. We also employ a strategic sourcing process intended to ensure reliability in supply and long-term cost effectiveness.
As a result of our strategic sourcing process and our strong relationships with suppliers, we are able to mitigate interruptions in the delivery of the products and services that are critical to our operations. For example, during Hurricane Katrina,
we were challenged to locate chemical suppliers not affected by the hurricane. As a result of our previously negotiated and established relationships with a network of preferred suppliers, we were able to secure a supply of materials and to continue
our operations in the affected areas without interruptions.

We have back-up energy sources at key facilities or alternative
sources are available to us that are able to keep our operations running in the event of a temporary loss of our primary energy supplies.







Regulation

Economic Regulation

Our operating revenue is typically determined by reference to a volumetric charge based on consumption and a base fee
component set by a tariff approved by the relevant state PUC. Certain states have utilized a full or partial single rate policy, under which all customers in a state or certain regions within a state are charged utilizing a single rate structure,
regardless of which of our individual systems serves them. The single tariff structure is based on costs that are determined on a state-wide or intra-state regional basis, thereby moderating the impact of periodic fluctuations in local costs while
lowering administrative costs for us and our customers.

The process to obtain approval for a change in rates involves filing
a petition or rate case with the state PUC on a periodic basis as determined by our capital expenditures needs and our operating costs. Rate cases are normally initiated by the regulated utility whenever the utility determines it needs to recover
increased operating expenses or a return on new capital investment, or otherwise determines that its current authorized return is not sufficient, given current market conditions, to provide a reasonable return on investment. Typically a rate case
will not be filed, however, unless the current or expected future return is below the allowed rate of return currently authorized by the regulator. A state PUC may also initiate a rate proceeding or investigation if it believes a utility may be
earning in excess of its authorized rate of return. Rate cases often involve a lengthy and







costly administrative process. The utility, the state PUC staff, consumer advocates, and any other interveners who may participate in the process, prepare and file evidence, consisting of
supporting testimony and documentation. This is presented in public hearings in connection with the rate case. These hearings, which are economic and service quality fact-finding in nature, are typically conducted in a trial-like setting before the
state PUC or an administrative law judge. During the process, the utility is required to provide staff and interveners with all relevant information they may request concerning the utility’s operations, expenses and investments. The sworn
evidentiary record then forms the basis for a state PUC decision.

Some state PUCs are more restrictive than others with
regard to the types of expenses and investments that may be recovered in rates as well as with regard to the transparency of their rate-making processes and how they reach their final rate determinations. However, in evaluating a rate case, state
PUCs typically focus on five areas:



•the amount and prudence of investment in facilities considered “used and useful” in providing public service;



•the operating and maintenance costs and taxes associated with providing the service (typically by making reference to a representative 12-month period
of time, known as a test year);



•the appropriate rate of return;



•the tariff or rate design that allocates revenue requirements equitably among the customer classes; and



•the quality of service the utility provides, including issues raised by customers.

The decisions of state PUCs and the timing of those decisions can have a significant impact on the operations and earnings of our Regulated
Businesses. Rate cases and other rate-related proceedings can take several months to over a year to complete. Therefore, there is frequently a delay, or regulatory lag, between the time one of our regulated subsidiaries makes a capital investment or
incurs an operating expense increase and when those costs are reflected in rates. For instance, an unexpected increase in chemical costs or new capital investment that is not appropriately reflected in the most recently completed rate case will
generally not be recovered by the regulated subsidiary until the next rate case is filed and approved by the state PUC. Our rate case management program is guided by the goals of obtaining efficient recovery of costs of capital and utility operating
and maintenance costs, including costs incurred for compliance with environmental regulations. The management team at each of our regulated subsidiaries anticipates the time required for the regulatory process and files a rate case with the goal of
obtaining rates that reflect as closely as possible the cost of providing service at the time the rates become effective. Even if rates are sufficient, we face the risk that we will not achieve the rates of return on our invested capital and a
return of our invested capital that are permitted by the state PUC.

Our regulated subsidiaries also pursue methods to
minimize the adverse impact of regulatory lag and have worked with state PUCs and legislatures to implement a number of approaches to achieve this result. A number of states in which our Regulated Businesses operate have adopted efficient rate
policies, including some form of single tariff pricing, forward-looking test years, pass-through provisions or infrastructure surcharges. States that have adopted a full or partially single tariff pricing policy include: Pennsylvania, New Jersey,
West Virginia, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and Iowa.

Forward-looking test years and infrastructure surcharges reduce
the regulatory lag associated with the traditional method of recovering rates from state PUCs. Forward-looking test year mechanisms allow us to earn, on a more timely basis, a return of our current or projected costs and a rate of return on our
current or projected invested capital and other “known and measurable changes” in our business. Some states have permitted use of a fully forecasted test year instead of historical data to set rates. Examples of these states include:
Illinois, Kentucky, New York, Tennessee and California. In all states in which we operate on a regulated basis, PUCs have allowed utilities to update historical data for some changes that occur for some limited period of time







subsequent to the historical test year. This allows utilities to take account of some more current costs or capital investments in the rate-setting process. The extent to which historical data
can be updated will generally vary from state to state and whether the changes are known and measurable.

Also, an increasing
number of states are permitting rates to be adjusted outside of a general rate case for certain costs, such as a return on capital investments to replace aging infrastructure or increases in expenses beyond the utility’s control, such as
purchased water costs. This infrastructure surcharge mechanism allows our rates to be adjusted and charged to customers outside the context of a general rate proceeding for pre-specified portions of our capital expenditures to replace aging
infrastructure closer to the time these capital projects are placed in service. For example, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Missouri, Indiana, New York, California and Ohio are examples of states that have in the past allowed tariffs that permit the
imposition of surcharges on customers’ bills for infrastructure replacement. New Jersey, California, Virginia and Illinois have allowed surcharges for purchased water costs. California has allowed surcharges for power and conservation, and New
York has allowed surcharges for certain costs such as power and chemicals. These constructive regulatory mechanisms encourage us to maintain a steady capital expenditure program to repair and improve water and wastewater systems as needed by
reducing the regulatory lag on the recovery of prudent expenditures.

Also, some of the states in which we operate permit
pass-through provisions that allow for an increase in certain operating costs, such as purchased power and property taxes to be passed on to and recovered from customers outside of a general rate case proceeding.

Another regulatory mechanism to address issues of regulatory lag includes the potential ability, in certain circumstances, to recover in
rates a return on utility plant before it is in service, instead of capitalizing an allowance for funds used during construction. Examples of states that have allowed such recovery include: Texas, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Kentucky, Virginia, Illinois and
California.

In addition, some states have permitted us to seek pre-approval of certain capital projects and associated costs.
In this pre-approval process, the PUCs assess the prudency of such projects.

Recently, the state of California has decoupled
revenues from water sold. This progressive regulation enables utilities to focus on conservation as revenues are not tied to sales. Also, as a result of this regulation, utilities would be less susceptible to consumption changes as a result of
weather conditions.

The ability of the Company to seek regulatory treatment as described above does not guarantee that the
state PUCs will accept the Company’s proposal in the context of a particular rate case. However, the Company strives to use these and other regulatory policies to address issues of regulatory lag wherever appropriate and to expand their use in
areas where they may not currently apply.

Environmental, Health and Safety and Water Quality Regulation

Our water and wastewater operations are subject to extensive United States federal, state and local, and in the case of our Canadian
operations, Canadian laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, health and safety, the quality of the water we deliver to our customers, water allocation rights and the manner in which we collect, treat, discharge and dispose
of wastewater. We are also subject to certain regulations regarding fire protection services in the areas we serve. These regulations include the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act and other federal, state, local and Canadian laws and
regulations governing the provision of water and wastewater services, particularly with respect to the quality of water we distribute. We also are subject to various federal, state, local and Canadian laws and regulations governing the storage of
hazardous materials, the management and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes, discharges to air and water, the cleanup of contaminated sites, dam safety and other matters relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety. State
PUCs also set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we deliver.







We maintain a comprehensive environmental policy including: responsible business practices,
compliance with environmental laws and regulations, effective use of natural resources, and stewardship of biodiversity. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with, and in many cases surpass, minimum standards required by
applicable environmental laws and regulations. Water samples across our water system are analyzed on a regular basis in material compliance with regulatory requirements. Across the Company, we conduct over one million water quality tests each year
at our laboratory facilities and plant operations including continuous on-line instrumentations such as monitoring turbidity levels, disinfectant residuals and adjustments to chemical treatment based on changes in incoming water. For 2009, we
achieved greater than a 99.9% compliance rate for meeting state and federal drinking water standards and 99.5% for compliance with wastewater requirements.

We participate in the Partnership for Safe Water, the United States EPA’s voluntary program to meet more stringent goals for increasing protection against microbial contaminants. With 67 of our
plants receiving the program’s “Director” award, we account for approximately one-third of all plants receiving such award nationwide and almost all of the 67 plants have maintained the award for more than five years.

Safe Drinking Water Act

The Federal Safe Drinking Water Act and regulations promulgated thereunder establish national quality standards for drinking water. The EPA has issued rules governing the levels of numerous naturally occurring and man-made chemical and
microbial contaminants and radionuclides allowable in drinking water and continues to propose new rules. These rules also prescribe testing requirements for detecting contaminants, the treatment systems which may be used for removing contaminants
and other requirements. Federal and state water quality requirements have become increasingly more stringent, including increased water testing requirements, to reflect public health concerns.

For example, in 2001, the EPA decreased permissible arsenic levels in drinking water and required compliance by water systems by
January 2006. In 2003, a new EPA rule governing non-radon radionuclides became effective regulating uranium in drinking water for the first time and requiring initial monitoring under state programs by the end of 2007. We believe that we are in
material compliance with both of these rules.

In order to remove or inactivate microbial organisms, the EPA has promulgated
various rules to improve the disinfection and filtration of drinking water and to reduce consumers’ exposure to disinfectants and byproducts of the disinfection process. In January 2006, the EPA promulgated the Long-term 2 Enhanced Surface
Water Treatment Rule and the Stage 2 Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproduct Rule. In October 2006, the EPA finalized the Ground Water Rule, applicable to water systems providing water from underground sources. In 2006, the EPA also proposed
revisions to the monitoring and reporting requirements of the existing Lead and Copper Rule. In 2010, we anticipate that the EPA will propose revisions to the Total Coliform Rule. We have been actively involved in the revisions to this rule and was
part of a Federal Advisory Committee appointed to negotiate the changes.

Although it is difficult to project the ultimate
costs of complying with the above or other pending or future requirements, we do not expect current requirements under the Safe Drinking Water Act to have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. In addition, capital expenditures
and operating costs to comply with environmental mandates traditionally have been recognized by state public utility commissions as appropriate for inclusion in establishing rates. As a result, we expect to fully recover the operating and capital
costs resulting from these pending or future requirements.

Clean Water Act

The Federal Clean Water Act regulates discharges from drinking water and wastewater treatment facilities into lakes, rivers, streams and
groundwater. In addition to requirements applicable to our wastewater collection systems, our operations require discharge permits under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System,







NPDES, permit program established under the Clean Water Act. Pursuant to the NPDES program, the EPA or implementing states set maximum discharge limits for wastewater effluents and overflows from
wastewater collection systems. We believe that we maintain the necessary permits and approvals for the discharges from our water and wastewater facilities. From time to time, discharge violations occur at our facilities, some of which result in
fines. We do not expect any such violations or fines to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.

Other Environmental, Health and Safety and Water Quality Matters

Our operations also involve the use,
storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. For example, our water and wastewater treatment facilities store and use chlorine and other chemicals that generate wastes which require proper handling and disposal under applicable
environmental requirements. We also could incur remedial costs in connection with any contamination relating to our operations or facilities or our off-site disposal of wastes. Although we are not aware of any material cleanup or decontamination
obligations, the discovery of contamination or the imposition of such obligations in the future could result in additional costs. Our facilities and operations also are subject to requirements under the United States Occupational Safety and Health
Act and are subject to inspections thereunder. For further information, see “Business—Research and Development.”

Certain of our subsidiaries are involved in pending legal proceedings relating to environmental matters. These proceedings are described further in the section entitled “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.”

Competition and Condemnation

In our Regulated Businesses, we generally do not face direct or indirect competition in providing services in our existing markets because: (i) we operate within those markets pursuant to certificates of public convenience and
necessity (or similar authorizations) issued by state PUCs; and (ii) the high cost of constructing a new water and wastewater system in an existing market creates a barrier to market entry. Our Regulated Businesses do face competition from
governmental agencies, other investor-owned utilities and strategic buyers in connection with entering new markets and making strategic acquisitions. Consolidation is changing the competitive landscape as small local utilities struggle to meet their
capital spending requirements and look to partner with investor-owned utilities. We also face competition in offering services to new real estate developers, where we compete with others on the basis of the financial terms we offer for our services,
the availability of water and our ability to commence providing services on a timely basis. Our largest investor-owned competitors, based on a comparison of operating revenues and population served, are Aqua America Inc., United Water (owned by Suez
Environment Company S.A.), American States Water Co. and California Water Services Group.

The certificates of public
convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) pursuant to which we operate our Regulated Businesses do not prevent municipalities from competing with us to provide water and wastewater utility services. Further, the potential exists that
portions of our subsidiaries’ utility assets could be acquired by municipalities or other local government entities through one or more of the following methods:



•eminent domain (also known as condemnation);



•the right of purchase given or reserved by a municipality or political subdivision when the original certificate was granted; and



•the right of purchase given or reserved under the law of the state in which the utility subsidiary was incorporated or from which it received its
certificate.

The sale price for such a transaction initiated by a local government may be determined
consistent with applicable eminent domain law, or the price may be negotiated or fixed by appraisers as prescribed by the law of the state or in the particular franchise or charter. We believe our operating subsidiaries would be entitled to fair







market value for any assets required to be sold, and we are of the opinion that fair market value would be in excess of the book value for such assets.

We are periodically subject to condemnation proceedings in the ordinary course of business. On September 5, 2008, pursuant to a
condemnation proceeding, California American Water sold the assets of our Felton, California water system, which served approximately 1,330 customers, to the San Lorenzo Valley Water District. The most recent prior sale of our water and wastewater
systems under threat of condemnation occurred in 2003. We actively monitor condemnation activities that may affect us as soon as we become aware of them. We do not believe that condemnation poses a material threat to our ability to operate our
Regulated Businesses.

Our Non-Regulated Businesses

In addition to our Regulated Businesses, we operate the following Non-Regulated Businesses, which generated $257.7 million of operating revenue in 2009 representing 10.6% of total operating revenue
for the same periods. Of the groups outlined below, no single group within our Non-Regulated Businesses generates in excess of 10% of our aggregate revenue.

Contract Operations Group

Our Contract Operations Group enters into
public/private partnerships, including O&M and DBO contracts for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities for municipalities, the United States military and other customers. We typically make no capital investment under our
contracts with municipalities and other customers; instead performing our services for a fee. We may make limited capital investments under our contracts with the United States military and certain industrial customers. Our Contract Operations Group
generated revenue of $156.1 million in 2009, representing 60.6% of revenue for our Non-Regulated Businesses.

In general, the Contract Operations Group is engaged in providing these services to systems with over 3,000 customers (and in many cases far
larger) as distinguished from the O&M services provided by our Applied Water Management Group usually to systems with less than 3,000 customers. However, there is some overlap in size of systems served due to geographic and operational
considerations.

We combined all Contract Operations activities, including Applied Water Management Group’s 196 contracts
and our newly acquired subsidiary, EMC, into one operating unit. EMC provides O&M services to 26 municipalities and 28 industrial customers. The Contract Operations Group will commence operating as a combined unit on January 1, 2010.







Applied Water Management Group

Our Applied Water Management Group works with customers to design, build and operate smaller-scale water and wastewater treatment plants
(typically serving up to 3,000 customers). Our typical customers are real estate developers, industrial companies and new or expanding communities. We specialize in providing reliable, advanced and eco-friendly water and wastewater solutions to suit
each customer’s water needs. Our Applied Water Management Group generated revenue of $19.5 million in 2009, representing 7.6% of revenue for our Non-Regulated Businesses.

The Applied Water Management Group currently serves our customer base primarily in the Northeastern United States and was responsible for
the design, construction and operation of advanced wastewater treatment recycling systems for sites as varied as residential buildings in Battery Park City in New York City and Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts.

As stated above under “Contract Operations Group”, we aligned all our Contract Operations activities into a single operating
group, effective January 1, 2010.

Homeowner Services Group

Our Homeowner Services Group provides services to domestic homeowners to protect against the cost of repairing broken or leaking pipes inside
and outside their homes. We initially offered these services within territories covered by our regulated subsidiaries, but are expanding to enable other utilities outside our territories to offer the services to their customers. In the marketing of
these services, we focus on educating homeowners about their service line ownership responsibility and providing convenient and cost effective solutions to internal and external water line and sewer line repairs. Our Homeowner Services Group
generated revenue of $52.2 million in 2009, representing 20.3% of revenue for our Non-Regulated Businesses.

Our Service Line
Protection Programs offer customers various service contracts for a monthly fee that cover repair of water line leaks and breaks, sewer line clogs and blockages and emergency in-home plumbing problems. In the event of a problem, customers contact
our national call center and we dispatch local contractors to the customer’s home to undertake the necessary repairs.

Our Homeowners Services Group currently has approximately 750,000 customer contracts in 16 of the states where we operate our Regulated Businesses. We intend to expand our service offering to the remaining key states in which we operate our
Regulated Businesses as well as other viable territories.

Building on the success of its Service Line Protection Programs,
our Homeowner Services Group recently introduced LineSaver™, an exclusive program for municipalities and public water systems that is available across the country. The LineSaver™ program involves partnering with municipalities to offer our
protection programs to homeowners serviced by the municipal system while providing an income opportunity to the municipality or public water system. We entered into our first LineSaver™ program partnership with the city of Trenton, New Jersey
and are currently discussing partnerships with municipalities across the nation.

Other Non-Regulated Businesses

Our Non-Regulated Businesses also include (i) our Carbon Services Group, which provides granular activated carbon for water purification
to our Regulated Businesses as well as certain outside customers and (ii) our Residuals Group, Terratec, which is located in Canada and provides environmentally sustainable management and disposal of biosolids and wastewater by-products. Our
United States-based Residuals Group was divested effective June 29, 2007. These other Non-Regulated Businesses generated revenue of $29.9 million in 2009 in the aggregate, representing 11.6% of revenue for our Non-Regulated Businesses.







Competition

We face competition in our Non-Regulated Businesses from a number of service providers, including Veolia Environnement, American States, OMI and Southwest Water, particularly in the area of O&M
contracting. Securing new O&M contracts is highly competitive, as these contracts are awarded based on a combination of customer relationships, service levels, competitive pricing, references and technical expertise. We also face competition in
maintaining existing O&M contracts to which we are a party, as these frequently come up for renegotiation and are subject to an open bidding process.

Growth

In the course of pursuing our growth strategy, we periodically
acquire water and wastewater utilities by making acquisitions in our existing markets and certain markets in the United States where we do not currently operate our Regulated Businesses. We have executed a number of larger acquisitions in the past
15 years. These acquisitions totaling approximately $2.1 billion broadened our footprint in then existing states geographies.

We also acquire water and wastewater utilities through tuck-ins. The proximity of tuck-in opportunities to our regulated footprint allows us to integrate and manage the acquired systems and operations using our existing management and to
achieve efficiencies. Historically, pursuing tuck-ins has been a fundamental part of our growth strategy. We intend to continue to expand our regulated footprint geographically by acquiring water and wastewater systems in our existing markets and,
if appropriate, certain markets in the United States where we do not currently operate our Regulated Businesses.

The chart
below sets forth our historical tuck-ins for 2006 through December 2009.



During 2007, New Jersey American Water Company, Inc. (“NJAWC”) entered into an agreement with the
City of Trenton, New Jersey (the “City”) to purchase the assets of the City’s outside water system located in four surrounding townships. The initial proposed purchase price of $100 million was subsequently amended to $75 million plus
the provision of technical services by the City over seven years at a total cost to NJAWC of $5.0 million to ensure a smooth ownership transition. The amended agreement also requires NJAWC to purchase finished water from the City of Trenton for a
period of 20 years after closing under a water supply agreement.

Since February 2009 a small group of City residents
(“Petitioners”) has been involved in litigation with the City and NJAWC seeking to force the sale to a referendum. On December 19, 2009, the New Jersey Superior Court Appellate panel published its decision unanimously upholding a
March 2009 trial court decision in favor of the City and NJAWC. The New Jersey Supreme Court (“Supreme Court”) has granted the Petitioners’ request for certification and oral argument is scheduled before the Supreme Court on March 22,
2010. The Company can provide no assurance as to the outcome of litigation. The acquisition is expected to add approximately 40,000 customers to NJAWC’s customer base.







While our business mix will continue to focus predominantly on regulated activities, we are
pursuing opportunities in Non-Regulated Businesses that are complementary to our Regulated Businesses and our capabilities. Our Non-Regulated focus centers around public/private partnerships, including municipalities and divisions of the United
States Department of Defense as well as industrial customers. We will continue to capitalize on our O&M expertise and our existing municipal and federal government relationships while building on our newly acquired subsidiary’s (EMC)
customer base in the industrial sector in identifying and bidding for new ventures that have attractive risk and return characteristics. We will also expand our Non-Regulated Homeowner Services business, which provides services to domestic
homeowners to protect against the cost of repairing broken or leaking pipes inside and outside their homes, in areas within and beyond our existing regulated footprint and to small commercial establishments.

Research and Development

We established a formal research and development program in 1981 with the goal of improving water quality and operational effectiveness in all areas of our businesses. Our research and development personnel are located at two of
our facilities: the regional center in Voorhees, New Jersey and our research laboratory in Delran, New Jersey. In addition, our quality control and testing laboratory in Belleville, Illinois supports research through sophisticated testing and
analysis. Since its inception, our research and development program has evolved to become a leading water-related research program, achieving advancements in the science of drinking water, including sophisticated water testing procedures and
desalination technologies.

Since the formation of the EPA in 1970, we have collaborated with the agency to achieve effective
environmental, health and safety and water quality regulation. This relationship has developed to include sharing of our research and national water quality monitoring data in addition to our treatment and distribution system optimization research.
Our engagement with the EPA has helped us to achieve a leadership position for our company within the water and wastewater industry and has provided us with early insight into emerging regulatory issues and initiatives; thereby allowing us to
anticipate and to accommodate our future compliance requirements.

In 2009, we spent $2.75 million on research and
development, which represents an increase of 10% over the $2.5 million spent in 2008. Approximately one-third of our research budget is comprised of competitively awarded outside research grants. Such grants reduce the cost of research and
allow collaboration with leading national and international researchers.

We believe that continued research and development
activities are critical to providing quality and reliable service at reasonable rates, maintaining our leadership position in the industry and will provide us with a competitive advantage as we seek additional business with new and existing
customers.

Support Services

Our American Water Works Service Company subsidiary provides centrally administered professional services to our Regulated Businesses under the terms of contracts with these companies that have been
approved by state PUCs, where necessary. These services, which are provided at cost, may include accounting, administration, business development, communications, corporate secretarial, engineering, financial, health and safety, human resources,
information systems, legal, operations, procurement, rates, security, risk management, water quality and research and development. Similar services may be provided to our Non-Regulated Businesses. These arrangements afford our affiliated companies
professional and technical talent on an economical and timely basis.

We operate two national customer service centers, with
personnel located in Alton, Illinois and Pensacola, Florida. These centers employ approximately 700 people in total.







Employee Matters

Currently, we employ approximately 7,700 full-time employees. Of these, approximately 3,900 or 51% are represented by unions. We have 84 collective bargaining agreements in place with the 18 different
unions representing our unionized employees. Approximately one-fourth of our local union contracts expire annually. We maintain good relations with our unionized workforce and have no significant history of strikes or labor stoppages.

Security

In the wake of
the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and other risks, we have heightened security at our facilities over the past several years and have taken added precautions to protect our employees and the water delivered to our customers. We have a
security programs department that provides oversight and governance of physical and information security throughout our operations and is responsible for designing, implementing, monitoring and supporting active and effective physical and
information security controls.

In 2002, federal legislation was enacted that resulted in new regulations concerning security
of water facilities, including those that required companies to submit vulnerability assessment studies to the federal government. We have complied with EPA regulations concerning vulnerability assessments and have made filings to the EPA as
required. Vulnerability assessments are conducted regularly to evaluate the effectiveness of existing security controls and serve as the basis for further capital investment in security for the facility. Information security controls are deployed or
integrated to prevent unauthorized access to company information systems, assure the continuity of business processes dependent upon automation, ensure the integrity of our data and support regulatory and legislative compliance requirements. In
addition, communication plans have been developed as a component of our procedures. While we do not make public comments on the details of our security programs, we have been in contact with federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to
coordinate and improve the security of our water delivery systems and to safeguard our water supply.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We file or furnish annual, quarterly and
current reports, proxy statements and other information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may obtain a copy of any of these reports, free of charge, from the Investor Relations section of our website,http://www.amwater.comshortly after we file or furnish the information to the SEC. Information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this Report.

You may also obtain a copy of any of these reports directly from the SEC. You may read and copy any material we file or furnish with the SEC
at their Public Reference Room, located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The phone number for information about the operation of the Public Reference Room is 1-800-732-0330 (if you are calling from within the United States), or
202-551-8090. Because we electronically file our reports, you may also obtain this information from the SEC internet website athttp://www.sec.gov.You can obtain additional contact information for the SEC on their website.

The American Water corporate governance guidelines and the charters for each of the standing committees of the board of directors together
with the American Water Code of Ethics and additional information regarding our corporate governance, are available on our websitehttp://www.amwater.comand will be made available, without charge, in print to any shareholder who requests
such documents from Investor Relations Department, American Water Works Company, Inc., 1025 Laurel Oak Road, Voorhees, NJ, 08043.







