ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Company

Founded in 1886, American Water Works Company, Inc., (the “Company,” “American Water” or “AWW”) is a Delaware holding company. American Water is the most geographically diversified, as well as the largest publicly-traded, United States water and wastewater utility company, as measured by both operating revenues and population served. As a holding company, we conduct substantially all of our business operations through our subsidiaries. Our approximately 6,400 employees provide an estimated 15 million people with drinking water, wastewater and/or other water-related services in 47 states and one Canadian province.

Operating Segments

We report our results of operations in two operating segments: the Regulated Businesses and the Market-Based Operations. Additional information with respect to our operating segment results is included in the section entitled “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Regulated Businesses

Our primary business involves the ownership of subsidiaries that provide water and wastewater utility services to residential, commercial, industrial and other customers, including sale for resale and public authority customers. We report the results of this business in our Regulated Businesses segment. Our subsidiaries that provide these services are generally subject to economic regulation by certain state commissions or other entities engaged in economic regulation, hereafter referred to as Public Utility Commissions, or “PUCs,” of the states in which we operate. The federal and state governments also regulate environmental, health and safety, and water quality matters.

Our Regulated Businesses segment operating revenues were $2,674.3 million for 2014, $2,539.9 for 2013, $2,564.4 million for 2012, accounting for 88.8%, 90.1% and 89.9%, respectively, of total operating revenues for the same periods.

The following table sets forth our Regulated Businesses operating revenues, number of customers and an estimate of population served as of December 31, 2014:



OperatingRevenues(In millions)% of TotalNumber ofCustomers% of TotalEstimatedPopulationServed(In millions)% of TotalNew Jersey$652.324.5%648,06620.2%2.722.7%Pennsylvania605.422.6%666,41520.7%2.218.5%Missouri270.210.1%464,49814.4%1.512.7%Illinois (a)262.39.8%312,0179.7%1.310.9%California209.87.8%174,1985.4%0.65.0%Indiana200.67.5%293,6669.1%1.210.1%West Virginia (b)127.04.7%170,3715.3%0.65.0%Subtotal (Top Seven States)2,327.687.0%2,729,23184.8%10.184.9%Other (c)346.713.0%489,96115.2%1.815.1%Total Regulated Businesses$2,674.3100.0%3,219,192100.0%11.9100.0%

(a)Includes Illinois-American Water Company, which we refer to as ILAWC and American Lake Water Company, also a regulated subsidiary in Illinois.

(b)Includes West Virginia-American Water Company, which we refer to as WVAWC, and its subsidiary Bluefield Valley Water Works Company.

(c)Includes data from our operating subsidiaries in the following states: Georgia, Hawaii, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New York, Tennessee and Virginia.

Overview of Networks, Facilities and Water Supply

Our Regulated Businesses operate in approximately 1,600 communities in 16 states in the United States. Our primary operating assets include 89 dams and 81 surface water treatment plants along with approximately 500 groundwater treatment plants, 1,000 groundwater wells, 100 wastewater treatment facilities, 1,200 treated water storage facilities, 1,300 pumping stations, and 48,000






miles of mains and collection pipes. Our regulated utilities own substantially all of the assets used by our Regulated Businesses. We generally own the land and physical assets used to store, extract and treat source water. Typically, we do not own the water itself, which is held in public trust and is allocated to us through contracts and allocation rights granted by federal and state agencies or through the ownership of water rights pursuant to local law. Maintaining the reliability of our networks is a key activity of our Regulated Businesses. We have ongoing infrastructure renewal programs in all states in which our Regulated Businesses operate. These programs consist of both rehabilitation of existing mains and other equipment and replacement of mains and other equipment that are damaged or have reached, or are near, the end of their useful service lives.

As noted, our Regulated Businesses are dependent upon a defined source of water supply and obtain their water supply from surface water sources such as reservoirs, lakes, rivers and streams. In addition, we also obtain water from ground water sources, such as wells, and purchase water from other water suppliers. The following chart sets forth the sources of water supply for our Regulated Businesses for 2014 by volume:



Our ability to meet the existing and future water demands of our customers depends on an adequate supply of water. Drought, governmental restrictions, overuse of sources of water, the protection of threatened species or habitats or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water. We employ a variety of measures to ensure that we have adequate sources of water supply, both in the short-term and over the long-term. The geographic diversity of our service areas tends to mitigate some of the economic effect associated with weather extremes we might encounter in any particular service territory. In any given summer, some areas may have source issues and experience drier than average weather while other areas we serve may experience wetter than average weather.

In our long-term planning, we evaluate quality, quantity, growth needs and alternate sources of water supply as well as transmission and distribution capacity. Sources of supply are seasonal in nature and weather conditions can have a pronounced effect on supply. In order to ensure that we have adequate sources of water supply, we use planning processes and maintain contingency plans to minimize the potential impact on service through a wide range of weather fluctuations. In connection with supply planning for most surface or groundwater sources, we employ models to determine safe yields under different rainfall and drought conditions. Surface and groundwater levels are routinely monitored so that supply capacity deficits may, to the extent possible, be predicted and mitigated through demand management and additional supply development.

Additionally, in California as part of the Urban Water Management Plan of 1983, water suppliers serving greater than 3,000 acre feet per year or 3,000 connections are required to submit an Urban Water Management Plan to the Department of Water Resources every five years. These plans assess water supply reliability over a 20-year planning period under normal, dry and multi-year dry periods to ensure that water suppliers have adequate water supply for current and future demands. In 2009, additional conservation elements were added to the plan that required utilities to show how they could meet a 20% demand reduction by 2020.






The percentage of finished water supply by source type for our top seven states by Regulated Businesses revenues for 2014 is as follows:



Ground waterSurface waterPurchased WaterNew Jersey24%71%5%Pennsylvania7%92%1%Missouri (a)19%80%1%Illinois35%54%11%California (b)66%—34%Indiana56%43%1%West Virginia—99%1%



(a)There are limitations in our Joplin, Missouri service area where the projected source of water supply capacity is unable to meet projected peak demands under certain drought conditions. To manage this issue on the demand side, the water use of a large industrial customer can be restricted under an interruptible tariff. Additional wells have been and will be developed to address short-term supply deficiencies. Missouri-American Water Company is working with a consortium of agencies to determine a long-term supply solution for the Joplin, Missouri region.

(b)In Monterey, California, in order to augment our sources of water supply, we have implemented conservation rates and other programs to address demand. These include utilizing aquifer storage and recovery facilities to store winter water for summer use. Additionally, in other areas we are making arrangements to extend or expand our purchase of water from neighboring water providers.

The level of treatment we apply to the water varies significantly depending upon the quality of the water source and customer stipulations. Surface water sources, such as rivers, typically require significant treatment, while some groundwater sources, such as aquifers, require chemical treatment only. In addition, a small amount of treated water is purchased from neighboring water purveyors. Treated water is transported through our transmission and distribution network, which includes underground pipes, above ground storage facilities and numerous pumping facilities with the ultimate distribution of the treated water to the customers’ premises.

We have installed production meters to measure the water that we deliver to our distribution network. We also employ a variety of methods of customer meter reading to monitor consumption; ranging from meters with mechanical registers where consumption is manually recorded by meter readers, to meters with electronic registers capable of transmitting consumption data to proximity devices (touch read) or via radio frequency to mobile or fixed network data collectors. The majority of new meters are able to support future advances in electronic meter reading.

Wastewater services involve the collection of wastewater from customers’ premises through sewer lines. The wastewater is then transported through a sewer network to a treatment facility, where it is treated to meet required effluent standards. The treated wastewater is finally returned to the environment as effluent, and the solid waste by-product of the treatment process is disposed of in accordance with applicable standards and regulations.

Economic Regulation and Rate Making Process

Economic regulation of utilities involves many competing, and occasionally conflicting, public interests and policy goals. The primary responsibility of PUCs is to promote the overall public interest by balancing the interests of customers and utility investors. Although the specific approach to economic regulation varies, certain general principles are consistent across the states in which our






regulated subsidiaries operate. Based on certain legal and regulatory principles, economic regulation is generally intended to provide a utility the right to serve specific geographic areas. In return, the utility undertakes the obligation to provide safe and adequate service to all customers within its service area and is authorized an annual revenue requirement intended to provide recovery of prudent operation and maintenance costs, depreciation and taxes and an opportunity to earn a fair return on capital investment necessary to provide service to customers.

Our operating revenue is typically determined by reference to a volumetric charge based on consumption and a base fee component set by a tariff approved by the PUC. The process to obtain approval for a change in rates generally occurs by way of a “rate case” filed by the utility with the PUC on a periodic basis. The timing of rate case filings may be determined by either periodic requirements in the regulatory jurisdiction or by the utility’s need to increase its revenue requirement to recover capital investment costs, changes in operating revenues, operating costs or other market conditions. A PUC may also initiate the filing of a rate case to conduct an investigation and may impose other conditions on the content and timing of filings under certain circumstances.

State PUCs differ with regard to the types of expenses and investments that may be recovered in rates as well as with regard to the transparency of their rate-making processes and how they reach their final rate determinations. However, in evaluating a rate case, state PUCs typically focus on a number of areas, including, the cost and prudence of investment in facilities; operating and maintenance expenses and taxes; the appropriate cost of capital and equity return; revenues or consumption at current and expected levels; allocation of the revenue requirements among customer classes; service quality and issues raised by customers.

Our regulated subsidiaries work with legislatures and PUCs to mitigate the adverse impact of regulatory lag through the adoption of positive regulatory policies. These policies include, for example, infrastructure replacement surcharges that allow rates to change outside the context of a general rate proceeding to reflect, on a more timely basis, investments to replace infrastructure necessary to sustain high quality, reliable service. Currently, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Missouri, Indiana, New York, New Jersey and Tennessee allow the use of infrastructure surcharges. Forward-looking test year mechanisms allow us to earn, on a more current basis, our current or projected usage and costs and a rate of return on our current or projected invested capital. Some states have permitted the use of a fully forecasted test year instead of historical data to set rates. Those states are: Illinois, Kentucky, New York, Tennessee, California, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Hawaii and Virginia. In all states in which we operate on a regulated basis, PUCs have allowed utilities to update historical data for certain “known and measurable” changes that occur for some limited period of time subsequent to the historical test year. This allows utilities to take into account more current costs or capital investments in the rate-setting process. The extent to which historical data can be updated will generally vary from state to state.

Another mechanism to address issues of regulatory lag is the ability, in certain circumstances, to recover the full return on utility plant costs during the construction period, instead of capitalizing an allowance for funds used during construction. Examples of states that have allowed such recovery include Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia, Illinois and California. In addition, some states, such as Indiana, allow the utility to seek pre-approval of certain capital projects and associated costs. In this pre-approval process, the PUC assesses the prudency of such projects.

Surcharge mechanisms are also available in a number of states to reflect, outside of a general rate proceeding, changes in major operating expenses which may be beyond the utility’s control. For example, New Jersey, California, Virginia, Illinois and Tennessee have allowed surcharges for purchased water costs. California has allowed surcharges for power and certain other costs, and New York has allowed annual reconciliations for expenses such as power, fuel, chemicals and property taxes. Tennessee has allowed surcharges for power, chemical and Tennessee River Authority inspections fees.

Certain states have approved consolidated rates or single-tariff pricing policies. Consolidated rates or single-tariff pricing is the use of a unified rate structure for multiple water systems that are owned and operated by a single utility, but may or may not be contiguous or physically interconnected. The single-tariff pricing structure may be used fully or partially in a state, based on costs that are determined on a state-wide or intra-state regional basis, thereby moderating the impact of periodic fluctuations in local costs while






lowering administrative costs for our customers. For states that do not employ single-tariffs, we may have multiple general rate cases filed at any given point in time. Examples of states that have adopted a full or partial single-tariff pricing policy include: Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Missouri, West Virginia, Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois and Iowa. Therefore, of our seven largest states, six have some form of single-tariff pricing. Pennsylvania also permits a blending of water and wastewater rate structures, which results in single-tariff pricing among water and wastewater systems.

In some states, the PUC has implemented mechanisms to enhance utility revenue stability in light of conservation initiatives, decreasing per capita consumption or other factors. Sometimes referred to as “decoupling,” these mechanisms, to some extent, separate recoverable revenues from volumes of water sold. For example, the state of California has decoupled revenues from water sold to help achieve the state initiative to reduce water usage by 20% by 2020. This progressive regulation enables utilities to encourage water efficiency, as revenues are not tied to sales. Similarly, New York has implemented a surcharge or credit based on the difference between actual net revenues and the revenues allowed in the most recent rate order.

California also has a multi-year cost of capital proceeding outside of the general rate case process. This proceeding authorizes the utility’s capital structure and authorized rates of return, as well as provides an automatic adjustment mechanism that triggers an adjustment to the authorized cost of capital if the Moody’s utility bond index changes beyond certain thresholds on an annual basis.

We pursue positive regulatory policies as part of our rate and revenue management program to enhance our ability to provide high quality, sustainable, cost effective service to customers, to facilitate efficient recovery of our costs and investments, and to ensure positive short-term liquidity and long-term profitability for a financially stable company which benefits our customers, employees and shareholders. The ability to seek regulatory treatment as described above does not guarantee that the state PUCs will accept our proposal in the context of a particular rate case, and these policies will reduce, but not eliminate, regulatory lag associated with traditional rate making processes. However, the Company strives to use these and other regulatory policies to address issues of regulatory lag wherever appropriate. It is also our strategy to expand their use in areas where they may not currently apply.

Customers

We have a large and geographically diverse customer base in our Regulated Businesses. An active customer is defined as a party with an active agreement to receive a specific service from a connection to our water or wastewater system as of the last business day of each monthly reporting period. Also, as in the case of apartment complexes, businesses and many homes, multiple individuals may be served by a single contract.

Residential customers make up the majority of our customer base in all of the states in which we operate. In 2014, residential customers accounted for 91.0% of the customers, 59.3% of the operating revenues and approximately 50.4% of the billed water sales of our Regulated Businesses. We also serve commercial customers, such as shops and businesses; industrial customers, such as large-scale manufacturing and production operations; and public authorities, such as government buildings and other public sector facilities, including schools. We also supply water to public fire hydrants for firefighting purposes, to private fire customers for use in fire suppression systems in office buildings and other facilities, as well as providing bulk water supplies to other water utilities for distribution to their own customers.

The vast majority of our regulated water customers are metered, which allows us to measure and bill for our customers’ water consumption, typically on a monthly basis. Our wastewater customers are billed either on a fixed charge basis or based on their water consumption.

In fiscal year 2014, no single Regulated Businesses customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated annual operating revenues.

The following table sets forth the number of water and wastewater customers (by customer class) for our Regulated Businesses as of December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012:



December 31,201420132012WaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterResidential2,813,715117,6022,813,601117,5842,783,35495,576Commercial218,3146,221219,5106,287218,9885,477Industrial3,793173,822163,89412Public & other59,24928158,42025950,702223Total3,095,071124,1213,095,353124,1463,056,938101,288








Seasonality

Customer usage of water is affected by weather conditions, particularly during the summer. Our water systems generally experience higher demand in the summer due to the warmer temperatures and increased usage by customers for lawn irrigation and other outdoor uses. Summer weather that is cooler and/or wetter than average generally serves to suppress customer water demand and can reduce water operating revenues and operating income. Summer weather that is hotter and drier than average generally increases operating revenues and operating income. However, when weather conditions are extremely dry, and even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers, our systems may be affected by drought-related warnings and/or water usage restrictions imposed by governmental agencies, thereby reducing customer usage and operating revenues. These restrictions may be imposed at a regional or state level and may affect our service areas, regardless of our readiness to meet unrestricted customer demands. Other factors affecting our customers’ usage of water include conservation initiatives, such as the use of more efficient household fixtures and appliances among residential consumers; declining household sizes in the United States; and changes in the economy and credit markets which could have significant impacts on our industrial and commercial customers’ operational and financial performance.

Competition

In our Regulated Businesses, we generally do not face direct competition in providing services in our existing markets because (i) we operate within those markets pursuant to certificates of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) issued by state PUCs; and (ii) the high cost of constructing a new water and wastewater system in an existing market creates a barrier to market entry. Our Regulated Businesses do face competition from governmental agencies, other investor-owned utilities, large industrial customers with the ability to provide their own water supply/treatment process and strategic buyers that are entering new markets and/or making strategic acquisitions. Our largest investor-owned competitors, when pursuing acquisitions, based on a comparison of operating revenues and population served, are Aqua America Inc., United Water (owned by Suez Environnement), American States Water Co. and California Water Services Group. From time to time, we also face competition from infrastructure funds, multi-utility companies and others, such as Algonquen Power, Colix and others.

Supplies

Our water and wastewater operations require an uninterrupted supply of chemicals, energy and fuel, as well as maintenance material and other critical inputs. Many of these inputs are subject to short-term price volatility. Short-term price volatility is partially mitigated through existing procurement contracts, current supplier continuity plans, the regulatory rate setting process and rate mechanisms.

Because of our geographic diversity, we maintain relationships with many chemical, equipment and service suppliers in the marketplace, and we do not rely on any single entity for a significant amount of our supplies. We also employ a strategic sourcing process intended to ensure reliability in supply and long-term cost effectiveness. As a result of this process and our strong relationships with suppliers, we have historically been able to mitigate interruptions in the delivery of the products and services that are critical to our operations.

We typically have a combination of standby power generation or dual electric service feeds at key facilities, multiple water production facilities, emergency interconnections with adjacent water systems and finished water storage that keep our operations running in the event of a temporary loss of our primary energy supplies.






Condemnation

The potential exists that all or portions of our regulated subsidiaries’ utility assets could be acquired by municipalities or other local government entities through one or more of the following methods:

·eminent domain (also known as condemnation);

·the right of purchase given or reserved by a municipality or political subdivision when the original certificate of public convenience and necessity was granted; and

·the right of purchase given or reserved under the law of the state in which the utility subsidiary was incorporated or from which it received its certificate.

For example, condemnation threats have been made over the last several years with respect to the following systems:

·Mooresville, Indiana: The Town of Mooresville (approximately 3,700 customer connections) filed a lawsuit to condemn Indiana American’s Mooresville operations in August 2012. The Town originally offered $6.5 million, while Indiana-American’s appraisal valued the system at $24.1 million. Following a June/July 2014 trial, the jury determined the Mooresville operations had a value of $20.3 million. As a result of the determination, the Town decided not to pursue the purchase.

·Monterey, California: A citizens group in Monterey, California (approximately 40,000 customer connections) submitted enough signatures to have a measure added to the June 2014 election ballot asking voters to decide whether the local water management district should conduct a nine-month feasibility study concerning the potential purchase of the assets of the California American Water’s Monterey service district. In the election, the voters rejected the proposed feasibility study; although it is possible that similar initiatives may be pursued in the future.

The acquisition consideration related to such a transaction initiated by a local government may be determined consistent with applicable eminent domain law, or may be negotiated or fixed by appraisers as prescribed by the law of the state or in the particular franchise or charter. We believe our Regulated Businesses would be entitled to fair market value for any assets required to be sold, and we are of the opinion that fair market value would be in excess of the book value for such assets. For additional information, including with respect to ongoing condemnation efforts, see “Item 1A—Risk Factors—The assets of our Regulated Businesses are subject to condemnation through eminent domain.”

We actively monitor condemnation activities that may affect us as soon as we become aware of them. We do not believe that condemnation poses a material threat to our ability to operate our Regulated Businesses.

Market-Based Operations

In addition to our Regulated Businesses, we also provide services to military bases, municipalities, industrial, commercial and residential customers that are not subject to economic regulation by state PUCs and do not require substantial infrastructure investment through our Market-Based Operations. For 2014, operating revenues for our Market-Based Operations was $354.7 million, or 11.8% of total operating revenues. In 2014, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated annual operating revenues.

Our Market-Based Operations include three lines of business:

·Military Services Group, which enters into 50-year contracts with the Department of Defense for the operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater systems on certain military bases;

·Homeowner Services Group, which provides services to domestic homeowners and smaller commercial establishments to protect against the cost of repairing broken or leaking water pipes, clogged or blocked sewer pipes inside and outside their accommodations and interior electric line repairs; and

·Contract Operations Group, which enters into contracts to operate and maintain water and wastewater facilities and other related services mainly for municipalities and the food and beverage industry.

In November 2014, we disposed of our Class B Biosolids line of business by selling our subsidiary Terratec Environmental Ltd (“Terratec”), which provided biosolids management, transport and disposal services to municipal and industrial customers in Ontario, Canada. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), the results of Terratec are presented as discontinued operations and, as such, have been excluded from continuing operations and operating segment results for all periods presented. Unless otherwise noted, all information in this Form 10-K is presented on the basis of continuing operations. See Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our discontinued operations.






Military Services Group

Our Military Services Group has eleven 50-year contracts with the Department of Defense for the operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater systems on certain military bases. All of our contracts with the U.S. government may be terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the 50-year term for convenience of the U.S. government or as a result of default or non-performance by the subsidiary performing the contract. In either event, pursuant to the standard terms of the U.S. government contract termination provisions, we would be entitled to recover allowable costs that we may have incurred under the contract, plus the contract profit margin on incurred costs. The contract price for nine of these contracts is subject to redetermination two years after commencement of operations and every three years thereafter. Price redetermination is a contract mechanism to periodically adjust the service fee in the next period to reflect changes in contract obligations and anticipated market conditions. Two contracts are subject to annual price adjustments under a mechanism similar to price redetermination, called “Economic Price Adjustment.” During the contract term, we may make limited short-term capital investments under our contracts with the United States military. .

Homeowner Services Group

Our Homeowner Services Group, through our Service Line Protection Program, provides services to domestic homeowners and smaller commercial establishments to protect against the cost of interior and external water and sewer line repairs and interior electric line repairs. Our LineSaver™ program involves partnering with municipalities to offer our protection programs to homeowners serviced by the municipalities. As of December 31, 2014, our Homeowner Services Group has approximately 1.4 million customer contracts in 43 states and the District of Columbia.

Contract Operations Group

Our Contract Operations Group enters into public/private partnerships, including O&M, Design, Build and Operate (“DBO”) and Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Maintain (“DBFOM”) contracts for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities for municipalities, the food and beverage industry and other customers. We are party to approximately 70 contracts, varying in size and scope, across the United States and Canada, with contracts ranging in terms from one to 30 years. Historically, we have made little long-term capital investment under these contracts with municipalities and other customers; instead we perform our services for a fee. Occasionally we provide our customers with financing for capital projects as part of a long-term operations and maintenance partnership.

Competition

We face competition in our Market-Based Operations from a number of service providers, including Veolia Environnement, American States Water, OMI and Southwest Water, particularly in the area of O&M contracting. Securing new O&M contracts is highly competitive, as these contracts are awarded based on a combination of customer relationships, service levels, competitive pricing, references and technical expertise. We also face competition in maintaining existing O&M contracts to which we are a party, as the municipal and industrial fixed term contracts frequently come up for renegotiation and are subject to an open bidding process.

Our Homeowner Services Group faces competition outside our existing footprint primarily from HomeServe USA and Utility Service Partners, Inc.

Industry Matters

Overview

The United States water and wastewater industry has two main sectors: (i) utility ownership, which involves supplying water and wastewater services to consumers; and (ii) general services, which involves providing water and wastewater related services to water and wastewater utilities and other customers on a contract basis.

The utility sector includes investor-owned as well as municipal systems that are owned and operated by local governments or governmental subdivisions. The EPA estimates that government-owned systems account for approximately 84% of all United States community water systems and approximately 98% of all United States community wastewater systems. Investor-owned water and wastewater systems, including a small number of private companies and developers, account for the remainder of the United States water and wastewater systems. Growth of service providers in the investor-owned regulated utility sector is achieved through organic growth within a franchise area, the provision of bulk water service to other community water systems and/or acquisitions of entire systems, including small and medium water and wastewater systems that are in close geographic proximity to already established regulated operations, as well as acquisitions in new service areas.






According to the EPA, the utility segment of the United States water and wastewater industry is highly fragmented, with approximately 52,000 community water systems and approximately 15,000 community wastewater facilities. Over half of the community water systems are very small, serving a population of 500 or less.

This large number of relatively small, fragmented water systems as well as fragmented wastewater facilities may result in inefficiencies in the marketplace, since such utilities may not have the operating expertise, financial and technological capability or economies of scale to provide services or raise capital as efficiently as larger utilities. Larger utilities that have greater access to capital are generally more capable of making mandated and other necessary infrastructure upgrades to both water and wastewater systems. In addition, water and wastewater utilities with large customer bases, spread across broad geographic regions, may more easily absorb the impact of significant variations in precipitation and temperatures, such as droughts, excessive rain and cool temperatures in specific areas. Larger utilities generally are able to spread support services over a larger customer base, thereby reducing the costs to serve each customer. Since many administrative and support activities can be efficiently centralized to gain economies of scale, companies that participate in industry consolidation have the potential to improve operating efficiencies, lower costs per unit and improve service at the same time.

The utility sector is characterized by high barriers to entry, given the capital intensive nature of the industry. The aging water and wastewater infrastructure in the United States is in constant need of modernization and replacement. Increased regulations to improve water quality and the management of water and wastewater residuals’ discharges, which began with passage of the Clean Water Act in 1972 and the Safe Drinking Water Act in 1974, have been among the primary drivers of the need for modernization. In 2007, the EPA estimated that approximately $390 billion of capital spending would be necessary over the then next 20 years to replace aging infrastructure and ensure quality wastewater systems across the United States. The EPA estimated that the nation’s drinking water utilities need $384 billion in infrastructure investments for thousands of miles of pipe as well as thousands of treatment plants storage tanks, and other key assets between 2011 and 2030 to ensure the public health, security and economic well-being of our cities, towns and communities. Additionally, in 2013 the American Society of Civil Engineers’ (“ASCE”),Report Card for America’s Infrastructure,gave the water and wastewater infrastructure a grade of “D” due to the fact that much of the infrastructure is nearing the end of its useful life. The report concluded that there will be an investment gap between now and 2020 of $84 billion for drinking water and wastewater infrastructure.

The following chart sets forth estimated capital expenditure needs from 2011 through 2030 for United States water systems:



Note:  Numbers may not total due to rounding

Source:  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's 2011 Drinking Water Infrastructure Needs Survey and Assessment






For 2015 to 2019, we estimate that Company-funded capital investment will amount to approximately $6.0 billion. Of the $6.0 billion, $5.2 billion is anticipated to be utilized to upgrade our infrastructure and systems. In addition to these capital expenditures, we are also estimating additional capital investment over the five-year period of approximately $0.8 billion for acquisitions and for strategic capital. Strategic investments could include opportunities in the unregulated shale arena, or investments related to the water/energy nexus, and/or concession agreements or acquisitions. Our total capital plan for 2015 is estimated to be approximately $1.2 billion with approximately $1.1 billion allocated to upgrading our infrastructure and systems, including infrastructure renewal programs and construction of facilities to meet environmental requirements and new customer growth. The remaining $0.1 billion is expected to be spent for acquisitions and strategic investment purposes. The charts below set forth our estimated percentage of projected capital expenditures over the period of 2015 to 2019 for upgrading our infrastructure and systems by asset type and purpose of investment, respectively:







Water and Wastewater Rates

Water and wastewater rates in the United States are among the lowest for developed countries; and for most U.S. consumers, water and wastewater bills make up a relatively small percentage of household expenditures compared to other utility services. The following chart sets forth the relative cost of water and other public services, including trash and garbage collection and sewer maintenance, in the United States as a percentage of total household utility expenditures:



*Source:  Bureau of Labor Statistics-Consumer Expenditures Survey, 2012 (assumes four person household)

Environmental, Health and Safety and Water Quality Regulation

Our water and wastewater operations, including the services provided under both our Regulated Businesses and Market-Based Operations, are subject to extensive United States federal, state and local laws and regulations, and in the case of our Canadian operations, Canadian laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, health and safety, the quality of the water we deliver to our customers, water allocation rights and the manner in which we collect, treat, discharge and dispose of wastewater. We






are also subject to certain regulations regarding fire protection services in the areas we serve. These regulations include the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act and other federal, state, local and Canadian laws and regulations governing the provision of water and wastewater services, particularly with respect to the quality of water we distribute. We also are subject to various federal, state, local and Canadian laws and regulations governing the storage of hazardous materials, the management and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes, discharges to air and water, the cleanup of contaminated sites, dam safety and other matters relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety. State PUCs also set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we deliver.

Environmental, health and safety and water quality regulations are complex and change frequently. The overall trend has been that they have become more stringent over time. As newer or stricter standards are introduced, our capital and operating costs could increase. We incur substantial costs associated with compliance with environmental, health and safety and water quality regulation to which our Regulated Businesses are subject. In the past, we have generally been able to recover costs associated with compliance related to environmental, health and safety standards, but this recovery is affected by regulatory lag and the corresponding uncertainties surrounding rate recovery.

We maintain an appropriate environmental policy including responsible business practices, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, effective use of natural resources, and stewardship of biodiversity. We believe that our operations are materially in compliance with, and in many cases surpass, minimum standards required by applicable environmental laws and regulations. Water samples from across our water systems are analyzed on a regular basis for compliance with regulatory requirements. Across the Company, we conduct over one million water quality tests each year at our laboratory facilities and plant operations, including continuous on-line instrumentations such as monitoring turbidity levels, disinfectant residuals and adjustments to chemical treatment based on changes in incoming water. For 2014, we achieved a score of greater than 99% for drinking water compliance and according to the EPA statistics, American Water’s performance has been far better than the industry average over the last several years. In fact, in 2014, American Water was 20 times better than the industry average for compliance with drinking water quality standards (Maximum Contaminant Levels) and 150 times better for compliance with drinking water monitoring and reporting requirements.

We participate in the Partnership for Safe Water, EPA’s voluntary program to meet more stringent goals for reducing microbial contaminants. With 68 of our 81 surface water plants receiving the program’s “Director” award, which recognizes utilities that have completed a comprehensive self- assessment report, created an action plan for continuous improvement and produces high quality drinking water, we account for approximately one-third of the plants receiving such awards nationwide. In addition, 63 American Water plants have received the “Five-Year Phase III” award, while 59 have been awarded the “Ten-Year Phase III” award. Additionally, three plants received the inaugural “Fifteen-Year Phase III” award, which recognizes plants that have met the Director award status for 15 years.

Safe Drinking Water Act

The Federal Safe Drinking Water Act and regulations promulgated thereunder establish national quality standards for drinking water. The EPA has issued rules governing the levels of numerous naturally occurring and man-made chemical and microbial contaminants and radionuclides allowable in drinking water and continues to propose new rules. These rules also prescribe testing requirements for detecting regulated contaminants, the treatment systems which may be used for removing those contaminants and other requirements. Federal and state water quality requirements have become increasingly stringent, including increased water testing requirements, to reflect public health concerns. To date, the EPA has set standards for approximately 90 contaminants and indicators for drinking water. Further, certain of our water systems are in the process of monitoring for 28 additional contaminants that are not currently regulated to help the EPA determine if any of them occur at high enough levels to warrant being regulated. There are thousands of other chemical compounds that are not regulated, many of which are lacking a testing methodology, occurrence data, health effects information and/or treatment technology.






Although it is difficult to project the ultimate costs of complying with the above or other pending or future requirements, we do not expect current requirements under the Safe Drinking Water Act to have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. In addition, capital expenditures and operating costs to comply with environmental mandates traditionally have been recognized by PUCs as appropriate for inclusion in establishing rates. As a result, we expect to fully recover the operating and capital costs resulting from these pending or future requirements.

Clean Water Act

The Federal Clean Water Act regulates discharges from drinking water and wastewater treatment facilities into lakes, rivers, streams and groundwater. In addition to requirements applicable to our wastewater collection systems, our operations require discharge permits under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit program established under the Clean Water Act. Pursuant to the NPDES program, the EPA or implementing states set maximum discharge limits for wastewater effluents and overflows from wastewater collection systems. We maintain the necessary permits and approvals for the discharges from our water and wastewater facilities. From time to time, discharge violations occur at our facilities, some of which result in fines. We do not expect any such violations or fines to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.

Other Environmental, Health and Safety and Water Quality Matters

Our operations also involve the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. For example, our water and wastewater treatment facilities store and use chlorine and other chemicals which generate wastes that require proper handling and disposal under applicable environmental requirements. We also could incur remedial costs in connection with any contamination relating to our operations or facilities or our off-site disposal of wastes. Although we are not aware of any material cleanup or decontamination obligations, the discovery of contamination or the imposition of such obligations in the future could result in additional costs. Our facilities and operations also are subject to requirements under the United States Occupational Safety and Health Act and are subject to inspections thereunder. For further information, see “Business—Research and Development.”

Certain of our subsidiaries are involved in pending legal proceedings relating to environmental matters. These proceedings are described further in the section entitled “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.”

Research and Development

We established a formal research and development program in 1981 with the goal of improving water quality and operational effectiveness in all areas of our business. Our research and development personnel are located in New Jersey. In addition, our quality control and testing laboratory in Belleville, Illinois supports research through testing and analysis.

Since the formation of the EPA in 1970, we have collaborated with the agency to achieve effective environmental, health and safety and water quality regulation. This relationship has developed to include sharing of our research and national water quality monitoring data in addition to our treatment and distribution system optimization research. Our engagement with the EPA has helped us to achieve a leadership position for our company within the water and wastewater industry and has provided us with early insight into emerging regulatory issues and initiatives, thereby allowing us to anticipate and to accommodate our future compliance requirements.

Approximately one-quarter of our research budget is funded by competitively awarded outside research grants. Such grants reduce the cost of research and allow collaboration with leading national and international researchers. In 2014, we spent $3.6 million, including $0.8 million funded by research grants. Spending, net of research grant funding, amounted to $2.9 million and $2.8 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively.

We believe that continued research and development activities are critical for providing quality and reliable service at reasonable rates, and maintaining our leadership position in the industry, which provides us with a competitive advantage as we seek additional business with new and existing customers.

Support Services

Our American Water Works Service Company subsidiary provides shared services and corporate governance for our operating subsidiaries that gain economies of scale through central administration. These services are provided predominantly to our Regulated Businesses under the terms of contracts with these companies that have been approved by state PUCs, where necessary. These services, which are provided at cost, may include accounting, administration, business development, communications, corporate administrative, education and training, engineering, financial, health and safety, human resources, information systems, internal audit, investor relations, legal, operations, procurement, rates support, security, risk management, water quality and research and






development. These arrangements afford our operating companies professional and technical talent on an economical and timely basis. We also operate two national customer service centers, which are located in Alton, Illinois and Pensacola, Florida, that provide customer relations, operations and field service support.

Our security department provides oversight and governance of physical and information security throughout our operations and is responsible for designing, implementing, monitoring and supporting active and effective physical and information security controls. We have complied with EPA regulations concerning vulnerability assessments and have made filings to the EPA as required. Vulnerability assessments are conducted periodically to evaluate the effectiveness of existing security controls and serve as the basis for further capital investment in security for the facility. Information security controls are deployed or integrated to prevent unauthorized access to company information systems, assure the continuity of business processes dependent upon automation, ensure the integrity of our data and support regulatory and legislative compliance requirements. While we do not make public comments on the details of our security programs, we are in contact with federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to coordinate and improve the security of our water delivery systems and to safeguard our water supply.

Employee Matters

Approximately 50% of our workforce is represented by unions. We have 75 collective bargaining agreements in place with 17 different unions representing our unionized employees. We have two union contracts beyond expiration that affect approximately 50 employees, all of which are actively working under the old agreements. During 2015, 24 of our local union contracts will expire.

On October 13, 2014, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Utility Workers Union of America (“UWUA”) designed to resolve a dispute between our company and the labor unions representing employees in the Regulated Businesses (“the Unions”). Among other things, the settlement agreement provides for a new 2014-2018 National Benefits Agreement that will be in effect generally until July 31, 2018. In addition, we agreed to make a $10.0 million lump-sum payment, to be distributed in accordance with procedures set forth in the settlement agreement among eligible employees represented by the Unions and affected by implementation of our last, best and final offer. The majority of the distributions are expected to be used to reimburse employees for medical claims, which were incurred during the relevant period and will be funded by the Group Insurance Plan for American Water Works Company, Inc. and Its Designated Subsidiaries and Affiliates – Active Employees VEBA (the “VEBA Trust”), to which we previously have made contributions.

The Unions approved the settlement agreement on October 30, 2014, and the National Labor Relations Board (the “NLRB”) approved the settlement agreement on October 31, 2014. The NLRB, UWUA and the Company filed a joint stipulation to dismiss the petition for review. The Seventh Circuit voluntarily dismissed all the parties' appeals on December 16, 2014. The NLRB will dismiss the unfair labor practice charge pending on the national benefits dispute when we have complied with the settlement agreement.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, as amended. We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may obtain a copy of any of these reports, free of charge, from the Investor Relations section of our website,http://www.amwater.com,shortly after we file or furnish the information to the SEC. Information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be a part of, this report.

You may also obtain a copy of any of these reports directly from the SEC. You may read and copy any material we file or furnish with the SEC at their Public Reference Room, located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The phone number for information about the operation of the Public Reference Room is 1-800-732-0330 (if you are calling from within the United States), or 202-551-8090. Because we electronically file our reports, you may also obtain this information from the SEC internet website athttp://www.sec.gov.You can obtain additional contact information for the SEC on their website.

The American Water corporate governance guidelines and the charters for each of the standing committees of the board of directors, together with the American Water Code of Ethics and additional information regarding our corporate governance, are available on our website,http://www.amwater.com,and will be made available, without charge, in print to any shareholder who requests such documents from Investor Relations Department, American Water Works Company, Inc., 1025 Laurel Oak Road, Voorhees, NJ, 08043.



