ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Company

American Water Works Company, Inc., (the “Company”), a Delaware corporation, is the most geographically diversified, as well as
the largest publicly-traded, United States water and wastewater utility company, as measured by both operating revenue and population served. As a holding company, we conduct substantially all of our business operations through our
subsidiaries. Our approximately 6,700 employees provide an estimated 14 million people with drinking water, wastewater and other water-related services in over 30 states and two Canadian provinces.

In 2012, our on-going operations generated $2,876.9 million in total operating revenue and $374.3 million in income from continuing
operations. In 2011, our on-going operations generated $2,666.2 million in total operating revenue and $304.9 million in income from continuing operations.

We have two operating segments that are also the Company’s two reportable segments: the Regulated Businesses and the Market-Based Operations. For further details on our segments, see Note 20 of the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

For 2012, our Regulated Businesses segment generated $2,564.4 million in operating
revenue, which accounted for 89.1% of our total consolidated operating revenue. For the same period, our Market-Based Operations segment generated $330.3 million in operating revenue, which accounted for 11.5% of total consolidated operating
revenue.

During 2011, we either sold or announced the sale of assets or stock of certain of our regulated and market- based
subsidiaries as outlined in “Our Regulated Businesses” and “Our Market-Based Operation” discussions below. As such, these subsidiaries have been presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented, and are not included
in the discussions below unless otherwise noted. See Note 3 to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our discontinued operations.







For additional financial information, please see the financial statements and related notes
thereto appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Regulated Businesses Overview

Our primary business involves the ownership of subsidiaries that provide water and wastewater utility services to residential, commercial,
industrial and other customers, including sale for resale and public authority customers. Our subsidiaries that provide these services are generally subject to economic regulation by certain state commissions or other entities engaged in economic
regulation, hereafter referred to as “PUCs,” in the states in which they operate. The federal government and the states also regulate environmental, health and safety, and water quality matters. We report the results of our primary
business in the Regulated Businesses segment.

As noted above, for 2012, operating revenue for our Regulated Businesses
segment was $2,564.4 million, accounting for 89.1% of total consolidated operating revenue for the same period. Regulated Businesses segment operating revenues were $2,368.9 million for 2011 and $2,285.7 million for 2010, accounting for 88.8%
and 89.5%, respectively, of total operating revenues for the same periods.

The following charts set forth operating revenue
for 2012 and customers as of December 31, 2012, for the states in which our Regulated Businesses provide services:





Market-Based Operations Overview

We also provide services that are not subject to economic regulation by state PUCs through our Market-Based Operations. Our Market-Based
Operations include three lines of business:



•Contract Operations Group, which enters into contracts to operate and maintain water and wastewater facilities mainly for the United States military,
municipalities, and the food and beverage industry;







•Homeowner Services Group, which provides services to domestic homeowners and smaller commercial establishments to protect against the cost of repairing
broken or leaking water pipes and clogged or blocked sewer pipes inside and outside their accommodations; and



•Terratec Environmental Ltd., which we refer to as Terratec, which primarily provides biosolids management, transport and disposal services to municipal
and industrial customers.

For 2012, operating revenue for our Market-Based Operations was
$330.3 million, accounting for 11.5% of total operating revenue for the same period. The Market-Based Operations’ operating revenue was $327.8 million for 2011 and $294.7 million for 2010, accounting for 12.3% and 11.5%, respectively, of
total operating revenues for the same periods.

Our Industry

Overview

The United States water and wastewater industry has two
main sectors (i) utility ownership, which involves supplying water and wastewater services to consumers; and (ii) general services, which involves providing water and wastewater related services to water and wastewater utilities and other
customers on a contract basis.

The utility sector includes investor-owned as well as municipal systems that are owned and
operated by local governments or governmental subdivisions. The Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) estimates that government-owned systems make up the vast majority of the United States water and wastewater utility segment, accounting
for approximately 84% of all United States community water systems and approximately 98% of all United States community wastewater systems. Investor-owned water and wastewater systems account for the remainder of the United States water and
wastewater community water systems. Growth of service providers in the investor-owned regulated utility sector is achieved through organic growth within a franchise area, the provision of bulk water service to other community water systems and/or
acquisitions, including small water and wastewater systems, typically serving fewer than 10,000 customers that are in close geographic proximity to already established regulated operations, which we herein refer to as “tuck-ins.”







The following chart sets forth estimated capital expenditure needs from 2007 through 2026
for United States water systems:











Over the next several years, we estimate that Company-funded capital investment for our
operations will range between $800 million and $1 billion per year. Our capital investment includes both infrastructure renewal programs, where we replace existing infrastructure, as needed, and construction of facilities to meet environmental
requirements and new customer growth. The charts below set forth our estimated percentage of projected capital expenditures by asset type and purpose of investment, respectively:





Investor-owned water and wastewater utilities generally require regulatory approval processes in order
to do business, which may involve obtaining relevant operating approvals, including certificates of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) from state PUCs. Investor-owned water and wastewater systems are generally subject to
economic regulation by the state PUCs in the states in which they operate. The federal government and the states also regulate environmental, health and safety and water quality matters for both investor-owned and government-owned water and
wastewater utilities.

The general services sector includes engineering and consulting companies and numerous other
fee-for-service businesses. These include building and operating water and wastewater utility systems, system repair services, lab services, sale of water infrastructure and distribution products (such as pipes) and other specialized services. The
general services segment is characterized by aggressive competition and market-driven growth and profit margins.

According to
the EPA, the utility segment of the United States water and wastewater industry is highly fragmented, with approximately 54,000 community water systems and approximately 15,000 community wastewater facilities. Over half of the approximately 54,000
community water systems are very small, serving a population of 500 or less.

This large number of relatively small,
fragmented water systems as well as fragmented wastewater facilities may result in inefficiencies in the marketplace, since such utilities may not have the operating expertise, financial and technological capability or economies of scale to provide
services or raise capital as efficiently as larger utilities. Larger utilities that have greater access to capital are generally more capable of making mandated and other necessary infrastructure upgrades to both water and wastewater systems. In
addition, water and wastewater utilities with large customer bases, spread across broad geographic regions, may more easily absorb the impact of significant variations in precipitation and temperatures, such as droughts, excessive rain and cool
temperatures in specific areas. Larger utilities generally are able to spread support services over a larger customer base, thereby reducing the costs to serve each customer. Since many administrative and support activities can be efficiently
centralized to gain economies of scale, companies that participate in industry consolidation have the potential to improve operating efficiencies, lower costs per unit and improve service at the same time.







Water and Wastewater Rates

Investor-owned water and wastewater utilities generate operating revenue from customers based on rates that are generally established by
state PUCs through a rate-setting process that may include public hearings, evidentiary hearings and the submission by the utility of evidence and testimony in support of the requested level of rates. In evaluating a rate case, state PUCs typically
focus on six areas: (i) the amount and prudence of investment in facilities considered “used and useful” in providing public service; (ii) the operating and maintenance costs and taxes associated with providing the service
(typically by making reference to a representative 12-month period of time, known as a test year); (iii) the appropriate rate of return; (iv) revenue produced by existing rates; (v) the tariff or rate design that allocates operating
revenue requirements across the customer base; and (vi) the quality of service the utility provides, including issues raised by customers.

Water and wastewater rates in the United States are among the lowest for developed countries; and for most U.S. consumers, water and wastewater bills make up a relatively small percentage of household
expenditures compared to other utility services. The following chart sets forth the relative cost of water and other public services, including trash and garbage collection and sewer maintenance, in the United States as a percentage of total
household utility expenditures:





Our Regulated Businesses

Our Regulated Businesses, which consist of locally managed utility subsidiaries that generally are economically regulated by the states in which they operate, accounted for $2,564.4 million or 89.1% of
our consolidated operating revenue in 2012. Our Regulated Businesses provide a high degree of financial stability because (i) high barriers to entry provide certain protections from competitive pressures; (ii) economic regulation promotes
predictability in financial planning and long-term performance through the rate-setting process; and (iii) our large customer base.

During 2012, we continued to execute our plan for optimizing our Regulated Businesses’ portfolio. In January 2012, we completed the sale of all of our stock in our water and wastewater operating
companies located in Arizona and New Mexico. On May 1, 2012, we completed the sale of our eight regulated water systems and one wastewater system in Ohio. Ohio American Water served approximately 58,000 customers. Also, on May 1, 2012, we
completed the purchase of seven regulated water systems in New York. This acquisition added approximately 50,000 customers to our New York regulated operations.

In May 2011, we completed the acquisition of 11 regulated water systems and 48 wastewater systems in Missouri and in June 2011, we completed the sale of the assets of our Texas regulated subsidiary. The
Missouri acquisition added approximately 1,700 water customers and nearly 2,000 wastewater customers. The Texas assets served approximately 4,200 water and 1,100 wastewater customers in the greater Houston metropolitan area.







As noted above, as a result of these sales, these regulated subsidiaries are presented as
discontinued operations for all periods presented. Therefore, the amounts, statistics and tables presented in this section refer only to on-going operations, unless otherwise noted.

The following table sets forth our Regulated Businesses operating revenue for 2012 and number of customers from continuing operations as
well as an estimate of population served as of December 31, 2012:



OperatingRevenues(in millions)% of TotalNumber ofCustomers% of TotalEstimatedPopulationServed(in millions)% of TotalNew Jersey$639.024.9%639,83820.3%2.521.9%Pennsylvania557.721.7%658,15320.8%2.219.3%Missouri279.510.9%455,73014.4%1.513.2%Illinois(a)256.410.0%308,0149.8%1.210.5%Indiana198.77.8%289,0689.2%1.210.5%California193.37.5%174,1885.5%0.65.3%West Virginia(b)125.04.9%172,1595.4%0.65.3%Subtotal (Top Seven States)2,249.687.7%2,697,15085.4%9.886.0%Other(c)314.812.3%461,07614.6%1.614.0%Total Regulated Businesses$2,564.4100.0%3,158,226100.0%11.4100.0%



(a)Includes Illinois-American Water Company, which we refer to as ILAWC and American Lake Water Company, also a regulated subsidiary in Illinois.

(b)West Virginia-American Water Company, which we refer to as WVAWC, and its subsidiary Bluefield Valley Water Works Company.

(c)Includes data from our operating subsidiaries in the following states: Georgia, Hawaii, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New York, Tennessee, and Virginia.

Approximately 87.7% of operating revenue from our Regulated Businesses in 2012 was generated from approximately
2.7 million customers in our seven largest states, as measured by operating revenues. In fiscal year 2012, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our annual operating revenue.

Overview of Networks, Facilities and Water Supply

Our Regulated
Businesses operate in approximately 1,500 communities in 16 states in the United States. Our primary operating assets include approximately 80 surface water treatment plants, 500 groundwater treatment plants, 1,000 groundwater wells, 100 wastewater
treatment facilities, 1,200 treated water storage facilities, 1,300 pumping stations, 90 dams and 46,000 miles of mains and collection pipes. Our regulated utilities own substantially all of the assets used by our Regulated Businesses. We generally
own the land and physical assets used to store, extract and treat source water. Typically, we do not own the water itself, which is held in public trust and is allocated to us through contracts and allocation rights granted by federal and state
agencies or through the ownership of water rights pursuant to local law. Maintaining the reliability of our networks is a key activity of our Regulated Businesses. We have ongoing infrastructure renewal programs in all states in which our Regulated
Businesses operate. These programs consist of both rehabilitation of existing mains and replacement of mains that have reached the end of their useful service lives.

Our ability to meet the existing and future water demands of our customers depends on an adequate supply of water. Drought, governmental restrictions, overuse of sources of water, the protection of
threatened species or habitats or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water. We employ a variety of measures to ensure that we have adequate sources of water supply, both in the short-term and over the long-term. The
geographic diversity of our service areas tends to mitigate some of the economic effect of weather extremes we







might encounter in any particular service territory. In any given summer, some areas are likely to experience drier than average weather while other areas we serve will experience wetter than
average weather.

Our Regulated Businesses are dependent upon a defined source of water supply. Our Regulated Businesses
obtain their water supply from surface water sources such as reservoirs, lakes, rivers and streams. In addition, we also obtain water from ground water sources, such as wells, and purchase water from other water suppliers.

The following chart sets forth the sources of water supply for our Regulated Businesses for 2012 by volume:





In our long-term planning, we evaluate quality, quantity, growth needs and alternate sources of water
supply as well as transmission and distribution capacity. Sources of supply are seasonal in nature and weather conditions can have a pronounced effect on supply. In order to ensure that we have adequate sources of water supply, we use comprehensive
planning processes and maintain contingency plans to minimize the potential impact on service through a wide range of weather fluctuations. In connection with supply planning for most surface or groundwater sources, we employ sophisticated models to
determine safe yields under different rainfall and drought conditions. Surface and groundwater levels are routinely monitored so that supply capacity deficits may, to the extent possible, be predicted and mitigated through demand management and
additional supply development.

The percentage of finished water supply by source type for our top seven states by Regulated
Businesses revenues for 2012 is as follows:



Ground WaterSurface waterPurchased waterNew Jersey21%73%6%Pennsylvania7%92%1%Missouri(a)13%86%1%Illinois35%54%11%Indiana56%43%1%California(b)67%—33%West Virginia—100%—



(a)There are limitations in our Joplin service area where the projected source of water supply capacity is unable to meet projected peak demands under certain drought
conditions. To manage this issue on the demand side, the water use of a large industrial customer can be restricted under an interruptible tariff. Additional wells have been and will be developed to address short-term supply deficiencies.
Missouri-American Water Company is working with a consortium of agencies to determine a long-term supply solution for the Joplin, Missouri region.







(b)In Monterey, in order to augment our sources of water supply, we have implemented conservation rates and other programs to address demand and are utilizing aquifer
storage and recovery facilities to store winter water for summer use. Additionally, in other areas, we are making arrangements to extend or expand our purchase of water from neighboring water providers.

The level of treatment we apply to the water varies significantly depending upon the quality of the water source and customer
stipulations. Surface water sources, such as rivers, typically require significant treatment, while some groundwater sources, such as aquifers, require chemical treatment only. In addition, a small amount of treated water is purchased from
neighboring water purveyors. Treated water is transported through our transmission and distribution network, which includes underground pipes, above ground storage facilities and numerous pumping facilities with the ultimate distribution of the
treated water to the customers’ premises.

We also have installed production meters to measure the water that we deliver
to our distribution network. We employ a variety of methods of customer meter reading to monitor consumption; ranging from meters with mechanical registers where consumption is manually recorded by meter readers to meters with electronic registers
capable of transmitting consumption data to proximity devices (touch read) or via radio frequency to mobile or fixed network data collectors. The majority of new meters are able to support future advances in electronic meter reading.

Wastewater services involve the collection of wastewater from customers’ premises through sewer lines. The wastewater is then
transported through a sewer network to a treatment facility, where it is treated to meet required effluent standards. The treated wastewater is finally returned to the environment as effluent, and the solid waste byproduct of the treatment process
is disposed of in accordance with applicable standards and regulations.

Customers

We have a large and geographically diverse customer base in our Regulated Businesses. For the purposes of our Regulated Businesses, an
active customer is defined as a connection to our water and/or wastewater networks. A customer with both water and wastewater would count as two customers. Also, as in the case of apartment complexes, businesses and many homes, multiple individuals
may be served by a single connection.

Residential customers make up the majority of our customer base in all of the states in
which we operate. In 2012, residential customers accounted for 91.2% of the customers and 59.6% of the operating revenue of our Regulated Businesses. We also serve commercial customers, such as shops and businesses; industrial customers, such as
large-scale manufacturing and production operations; and public authorities, such as government buildings and other public sector facilities, including schools. We also supply water to public fire hydrants for firefighting purposes, to private fire
customers for use in fire suppression systems in office buildings and other facilities as well as providing bulk water supplies to other water utilities for distribution to their own customers.

The following table sets forth the number of water and wastewater customers (by customer class) for our Regulated Businesses as of
December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010:



December 31,201220112010WaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterWaterWastewaterResidential2,783,35495,5762,730,52495,0922,728,20593,156Commercial218,9885,477216,4155,462216,9675,355Industrial3,894123,885134,03313Private fire34,8581033,8871033,61011Public authority & other15,84421315,81819915,436197Total3,056,938101,2883,000,529100,7762,998,25198,732







The following table sets forth water services operating revenue by customer class and
wastewater services operating revenue, excluding other revenues, for our Regulated Businesses for 2012, 2011, and 2010:



Year Ended December 31,201220112010(in millions)Water serviceResidential$1,468.6$1,339.4$1,300.2Commercial518.3474.2457.0Industrial128.4116.0110.2Public and other328.4323.0314.1Total water services$2,443.7$2,252.6$2,181.5Wastewater services78.276.369.0Total$2,521.9$2,328.9$2,250.5

The vast majority of our regulated water customers are metered, which allows us to measure and bill for
our customers’ water consumption, typically on a monthly basis. Our wastewater customers are billed either on a fixed charge basis or based on their water consumption.

Customer usage of water is affected by weather conditions, particularly during the summer. Our water systems generally experience higher demand in the summer due to the warmer temperatures and increased
usage by customers for lawn irrigation and other outdoor uses. Summer weather that is cooler and wetter than average generally serves to suppress customer water demand and can reduce water operating revenue and operating income. Summer weather that
is hotter and drier than average generally increases operating revenues and operating income. However, when weather conditions are extremely dry and even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers, our systems may be affected by
drought-related warnings and/or water usage restrictions imposed by governmental agencies, thereby reducing customer demand and operating revenue. These restrictions may be imposed at a regional or state level and may affect our service areas,
regardless of our readiness to meet unrestricted customer demands. Other factors affecting our customers’ usage of water include conservation initiatives, such as the use of more efficient household fixtures and appliances among residential
consumers; declining household sizes in the United States; and deterioration in the economy and credit markets which could have an adverse impact on our industrial and commercial customers’ operational and financial performance.

Supplies

Our water and wastewater operations require an uninterrupted supply of chemicals, energy and fuel, as well as maintenance material and other critical inputs. Many of these inputs are subject to short-term
price volatility.







Short-term price volatility is partially mitigated through existing procurement contracts, current supplier continuity plans, and the regulatory rate setting process.

Because of our geographic diversity, we maintain relationships with many chemical, equipment and service suppliers in the marketplace,
and we do not rely on any single entity for a material amount of our supplies. We also employ a strategic sourcing process intended to ensure reliability in supply and long-term cost effectiveness. As a result of this process and our strong
relationships with suppliers, we are able to mitigate interruptions in the delivery of the products and services that are critical to our operations.

We typically have a combination of standby power generation or dual electric service feeds at key facilities, multiple water production facilities, emergency interconnections with adjacent water systems
and finished water storage that keep our operations running in the event of a temporary loss of our primary energy supplies.

Regulation

Economic Regulation

Economic regulation of utilities involves many competing, and occasionally conflicting, public interests and policy goals.
The primary responsibility of PUCs is to promote the overall public interest by balancing the interests of customers and the utility. Although the specific approach to economic regulation varies, certain general principles are consistent across the
states in which our regulated subsidiaries operate. For example, based on certain legal and regulatory principles, utilities are entitled to recover, through rates charged to customers, prudent and reasonable operating costs as well as an
opportunity to earn an appropriate return on and recovery of prudent, used and useful capital investment necessary to provide service to customers. PUCs will also generally accord a utility the right to serve specific areas and will also provide
investor-owned utilities with limited protection from competition because the requirement of an investor-owned utility to operate pursuant to a certificate of public convenience and necessity (or similar authorizations) typically prevents other
investor-owned utilities from competing with it in the authorized area. In return, the utility undertakes the obligation to provide reliable service without unreasonable discrimination to all customers within the authorized area.

Our operating revenue is typically determined by reference to a volumetric charge based on consumption and a base fee component set by a
tariff approved by the PUC. The process to obtain approval for a change in rates generally involves filing a petition or “rate case” by the utility with the PUC on a periodic basis as determined by the need to recover capital expenditures,
reduced consumption, increased operating costs or the utility determines that its current authorized return is not sufficient, given current market conditions, to provide a reasonable return on investment. A PUC may also initiate a rate proceeding
or investigation if it believes a utility







may be earning in excess of its authorized rate of return or other issues exist, which justify a review, PUCs may also impose other conditions on the content and timing of filings designed to
affect rates. Rate cases often involve a lengthy administrative process that can be costly. The utility, the state PUC staff, consumer advocates, and other customers and interveners, who may participate in the process, generally submit testimony and
supporting financial data from a twelve month period of time, known as the “test year.” State statutes and PUC rules and precedent usually determine whether the test year should be based on a historical period, a historical period adjusted
for certain “known and measurable” changes or forecasted data. The majority of our states require the test year to be based on a historical period adjusted for certain known and measurable changes. The evidence is presented in public
hearings held in connection with the rate case, which are economic and service quality fact-finding in nature, and are typically conducted in a trial-like setting before the PUC or an administrative law judge. During the process, the utility is
required to provide PUC staff and interveners with all relevant information they may request concerning the utility’s operations, costs and investments. The decision of the PUC should be based on the evidence presented at the hearing.

Some state PUCs are more restrictive than others with regard to the types of expenses and investments that may be recovered
in rates as well as with regard to the transparency of their rate-making processes and how they reach their final rate determinations. However, in evaluating a rate case, state PUCs typically focus on a number of areas, including, the amount and
prudence of investment in facilities; operating and maintenance expenses and taxes; the appropriate cost of capital and equity return; revenues or consumption at current and expected levels; allocation of the revenue requirements among customer
classes; service quality and issues raised by customers.

Our regulated subsidiaries work with legislatures and PUCs to mitigate the adverse impact of regulatory lag through the
adoption of positive regulatory policies. These policies include, for example, infrastructure replacement surcharges that allow rates to change outside the context of a general rate proceeding to reflect, on a more timely basis, investments to
replace aging infrastructure necessary to sustain high quality, reliable service. Currently, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Missouri, Indiana, New York, and more recently New Jersey allow the use of infrastructure surcharges. In 2012, the general assembly
in Pennsylvania passed legislation which expanded the use of infrastructure replacement programs to wastewater systems. In the second quarter of 2012, the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities adopted rules that allow the implementation of a
distribution system improvement charge for specified water infrastructure investments. On July 20, 2012, our New Jersey subsidiary submitted a foundational filing for this charge. Our filing was approved on October 23, 2012.

Forward-looking test year mechanisms allow us to earn, on a more current basis, our current or projected usage and costs and a rate of
return on our current or projected invested capital. Some states have permitted use of a fully forecasted test year instead of historical data to set rates. Examples of these states include: Illinois, Kentucky, New York, Tennessee, California and
Pennsylvania. In all states in which we operate on a regulated basis, PUCs have allowed utilities to update historical data for certain “known and measurable” changes that







occur for some limited period of time subsequent to the historical test year. This allows utilities to take into account more current costs or capital investments in the rate-setting process. The
extent to which historical data can be updated will generally vary from state to state.

Surcharge mechanisms are also
available in a number of states to reflect, outside of a general rate proceeding, changes in major operating expenses which may be beyond the utility’s control. For example, New Jersey, California, Virginia and Illinois have allowed surcharges
for purchased water costs. California has allowed surcharges for power and certain other costs, and New York has allowed annual reconciliations for revenues and expenses such as power, fuel, chemicals and property taxes.

Certain states have approved consolidated rates or single-tariff pricing policies. Consolidated rates or single-tariff pricing is the use
of a unified rate structure for multiple water systems that are owned and operated by a single utility, but may or may not be contiguous or physically interconnected. The single-tariff pricing structure may be used fully or partially in a state,
based on costs that are determined on a state-wide or intra-state regional basis, thereby moderating the impact of periodic fluctuations in local costs while lowering administrative costs for us and our customers. For states that do not employ
singe-tariffs, we may have multiple general rate cases filed at any given point in time. Example of states that have adopted a full or partial single-tariff pricing policy include: Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Missouri, West Virginia, Kentucky,
Indiana, Illinois and Iowa. Therefore, of our seven largest states, six have some form of single-tariff pricing.

Another
mechanism to address issues of regulatory lag is the potential ability, in certain circumstances, to recover in rates a return on utility plant before it is in service, instead of capitalizing an allowance for funds used during construction.
Examples of states that have allowed such recovery include Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia, Illinois and California. In addition, some states, such as Indiana, allow the utility to seek pre-approval of certain capital projects and associated costs.
In this pre-approval process, the PUC assesses the prudency of such projects.

In some states, the PUC has implemented
mechanisms to enhance utility revenue stability in light of conservation initiatives, decreasing per capita consumption or other factors. Sometimes referred to as “decoupling,” these mechanisms, to some extent, separate recoverable
revenues from volumes of water sold. For example, the state of California has decoupled revenues from water sold to help achieve the state initiative to reduce water usage by 20% by 2020. This progressive regulation enables utilities to encourage
conservation, as revenues are not tied to sales. Similarly, New York has implemented a surcharge or credit based on the difference between actual net revenues and the revenues allowed in the most recent rate order.

The Company pursues these positive regulatory policies as part of our rate and revenue management program to enhance our ability to
provide high quality, sustainable, cost effective service to customers, to facilitate efficient recovery of our costs and investments, and to ensure positive short-term liquidity and long-term profitability. The ability of the Company to seek
regulatory treatment as described above does not guarantee that the state PUCs will accept the Company’s proposal in the context of a particular rate case, and these policies will reduce, but not eliminate, regulatory lag associated with
traditional rate making processes. However, the Company strives to use these and other regulatory policies to address issues of regulatory lag wherever appropriate. It is also our strategy to expand their use in areas where they may not currently
apply.

Environmental, Health and Safety and Water Quality Regulation

Our water and wastewater operations are subject to extensive United States federal, state and local laws and regulations, and in the case
of our Canadian operations, Canadian laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, health and safety, the quality of the water we deliver to our customers, water allocation rights and the manner in which we collect, treat,
discharge and dispose of wastewater. We are also subject to certain regulations regarding fire protection services in the areas we serve. These regulations include the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act and other federal, state, local and
Canadian laws and regulations governing the provision of water and wastewater services, particularly with respect to the quality of water we distribute. We







also are subject to various federal, state, local and Canadian laws and regulations governing the storage of hazardous materials, the management and disposal of hazardous and solid wastes,
discharges to air and water, the cleanup of contaminated sites, dam safety and other matters relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety. State PUCs also set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we
deliver.

Environmental, health and safety and water quality regulations are complex and change frequently. The overall trend
has been that they have become more stringent over time. As newer or stricter standards are introduced, our capital and operating costs could increase. We incur substantial costs associated with compliance with environmental, health and safety and
water quality regulation to which our Regulated Businesses are subject. In the past, we have generally been able to recover costs associated with compliance related to environmental, health and safety standards, but this recovery is affected by
regulatory lag and the corresponding uncertainties surrounding rate recovery.

We maintain a comprehensive environmental
policy including responsible business practices, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, effective use of natural resources, and stewardship of biodiversity. We believe that our operations are materially in compliance with, and in many
cases surpass, minimum standards required by applicable environmental laws and regulations. Water samples from across our water systems are analyzed on a regular basis for material compliance with regulatory requirements. Across the Company, we
conduct over one million water quality tests each year at our laboratory facilities and plant operations, including continuous on-line instrumentations such as monitoring turbidity levels, disinfectant residuals and adjustments to chemical treatment
based on changes in incoming water. For 2012, we achieved a score of greater than 99% for drinking water compliance and according to the EPA statistics, American Water’s performance has been far better than the industry average over the last
several years. In fact, in 2012, American Water was 30 times better than the industry average for compliance with drinking water quality standards (Maximum Contaminant Levels) and 150 times better for compliance with drinking water monitoring
and reporting requirements.

We participate in the Partnership for Safe Water, the United States EPA’s voluntary program
to meet more stringent goals for reducing microbial contaminants. With 67 of our 81 surface water plants receiving the program’s “Director” award, we account for approximately one-third of the plants receiving such awards nationwide.
In addition, 62 American Water plants have received the “Five-Year Phase III” award, while 55 have been awarded the “Ten-Year Phase III” award.

Safe Drinking Water Act

The Federal Safe Drinking Water Act and
regulations promulgated thereunder establish national quality standards for drinking water. The EPA has issued rules governing the levels of numerous naturally occurring and man-made chemical and microbial contaminants and radionuclides allowable in
drinking water and continues to propose new rules. These rules also prescribe testing requirements for detecting contaminants, the treatment systems which may be used for removing contaminants and other requirements. Federal and state water quality
requirements have become increasingly stringent, including increased water testing requirements, to reflect public health concerns.

To effect the removal or inactivation of microbial organisms, the EPA has promulgated various rules to improve the disinfection and filtration of drinking water and to reduce consumers’ exposure to
disinfectants and byproducts of the disinfection process. In January 2006, the EPA promulgated the Long-term 2 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule and the Stage 2 Disinfectants and Disinfection Byproduct Rule. In October 2006, the EPA finalized
the Ground Water Rule, applicable to water systems providing water from underground sources. In 2006, the EPA also proposed revisions to the monitoring and reporting requirements of the existing Lead and Copper Rule. In 2012, the EPA finalized
revisions to the Total Coliform Rule that were part of the mandate of a Federal Advisory Committee appointed to negotiate the changes. Most of the anticipated changes to the rule will not be effective until 2016. The EPA is actively considering
regulations for a number of contaminants, including hexavalent chromium, fluoride, nitrosamines, perchlorate, some pharmaceuticals and certain volatile organic compounds, but we do not anticipate that any of these regulations will require
implementation in 2013.







Although it is difficult to project the ultimate costs of complying with the above or other
pending or future requirements, we do not expect current requirements under the Safe Drinking Water Act to have a material impact on our operations or financial condition. In addition, capital expenditures and operating costs to comply with
environmental mandates traditionally have been recognized by PUCs as appropriate for inclusion in establishing rates. As a result, we expect to fully recover the operating and capital costs resulting from these pending or future requirements.

Clean Water Act

The Federal Clean Water Act regulates discharges from drinking water and wastewater treatment facilities into lakes, rivers, streams and groundwater. In addition to requirements applicable to our
wastewater collection systems, our operations require discharge permits under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit program established under the Clean Water Act. Pursuant to the NPDES program, the EPA or
implementing states set maximum discharge limits for wastewater effluents and overflows from wastewater collection systems. We believe that we maintain the necessary permits and approvals for the discharges from our water and wastewater facilities.
From time to time, discharge violations occur at our facilities, some of which result in fines. We do not expect any such violations or fines to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition.

Other Environmental, Health and Safety and Water Quality Matters

Our operations also involve the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. For example, our water and wastewater
treatment facilities store and use chlorine and other chemicals which generate wastes that require proper handling and disposal under applicable environmental requirements. We also could incur remedial costs in connection with any contamination
relating to our operations or facilities or our off-site disposal of wastes. Although we are not aware of any material cleanup or decontamination obligations, the discovery of contamination or the imposition of such obligations in the future could
result in additional costs. Our facilities and operations also are subject to requirements under the United States Occupational Safety and Health Act and are subject to inspections thereunder. For further information, see
“Business—Research and Development.”

Certain of our subsidiaries are involved in pending legal proceedings
relating to environmental matters. These proceedings are described further in the section entitled “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.”

Competition

In
our Regulated Businesses, we generally do not face direct competition in providing services in our existing markets because (i) we operate within those markets pursuant to certificates of public convenience and necessity (or similar
authorizations) issued by state PUCs; and (ii) the high cost of constructing a new water and wastewater system in an existing market creates a barrier to market entry. Our Regulated Businesses do face competition from governmental agencies,
other investor-owned utilities, large industrial customers with the ability to provide their own water supply/treatment process and strategic buyers that are entering new markets and/or making strategic acquisitions. Our largest investor-owned
competitors, when pursuing acquisitions, based on a comparison of operating revenues and population served, are Aqua America Inc., United Water (owned by Suez Environnement), American States Water Co. and California Water Services Group.

Condemnation

The
potential exists that portions of our subsidiaries’ utility assets could be acquired by municipalities or other local government entities through one or more of the following methods:



•eminent domain (also known as condemnation);







•the right of purchase given or reserved by a municipality or political subdivision when the original certificate of public convenience and necessity
was granted; and



•the right of purchase given or reserved under the law of the state in which the utility subsidiary was incorporated or from which it received its
certificate.

The acquisition consideration related to such a transaction initiated by a local government
may be determined consistent with applicable eminent domain law, or may be negotiated or fixed by appraisers as prescribed by the law of the state or in the particular franchise or charter. We believe our operating subsidiaries would be entitled to
fair market value for any assets required to be sold, and we are of the opinion that fair market value would be in excess of the book value for such assets.

We are periodically subject to condemnation proceedings in the ordinary course of business. For example, over the last several years threats of condemnation have been made with respect to certain parts of
our water system near Chicago, Illinois. In 2008, the governing bodies of two Illinois municipalities, Homer Glen and Bolingbrook, passed resolutions to pursue a detailed valuation study of the water pipeline that delivers water in those
communities. Several nearby municipalities joined in this study. Homer Glen has also commissioned a study to determine the cost and feasibility of condemning Illinois-American’s retail distribution system serving that community. Five
municipalities passed ordinances enabling them to form a water agency to pursue eminent domain, and the agency was officially formed in June 2012. In August 2012, the agency made an offer of $34 million for our pipeline. The water agency later sent
a letter increasing its offer to $37.6 million, and provided a copy of an appraisal. In December 2012, the water agency voted in favor of filing an eminent domain lawsuit. In January 2013, the water agency filed an eminent domain case. We actively
monitor condemnation activities that may affect us as soon as we become aware of them. We do not believe that condemnation poses a material threat to our ability to operate our Regulated Businesses.

Our Market-Based Operations

In addition to our Regulated Businesses, we operate the following Market-Based Operations, which generated $330.3 million of operating revenue in 2012 representing 11.5% of total operating revenue
for the same period. Of the lines of business outlined below, no single group within our Market-Based Operations generates in excess of 10% of our aggregate revenue.

Contract Operations Group

Our Contract Operations Group enters into
public/private partnerships, including O&M and Design, Build and Operate (“DBO”) contracts for the provision of services to water and wastewater facilities for the United States military, municipalities, the food and beverage industry
and other customers. We typically make no long-term capital investment under these contracts with municipalities and other customers; instead we perform our services for a fee. During the contract term, we may make limited short term capital
investments under our contracts with the United States military and certain industrial customers. Our Contract Operations Group generated revenue of $232.7 million in 2012, representing 70.5% of revenue for our Market-Based Operations.

We are party to more than 80 contracts, varying in size and scope, across the United States and Canada, with contracts ranging in term
from one to 50 years. Included in these contracts are nine 50-year contracts with the Department of Defense for the operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater systems on certain military bases. All of our contracts with the U.S.
government may be terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the 50-year term for convenience of the U.S. government or as a result of default or non-performance by the subsidiary performing the contract. In either event, pursuant to the
standard terms of the U.S. government contract termination provisions, we would be entitled to recover allowable costs that we may have incurred under the contract, plus the contract profit margin on incurred costs. The contract price for each of
these contracts is subject to redetermination two years after commencement of operations and every three years thereafter. Price redetermination is a contract mechanism to periodically adjust the service fee in the next period to reflect changes in
contract obligations and anticipated market conditions.







On December 31, 2011, we completed the sale of our Applied Water Management, Inc. group
(“AWM”). As noted above, this subsidiary is included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. Therefore, all amounts and statistics disclosed for the Contract Operations Group refer only to on-going operations of the Contract
Operations Group.

Homeowner Services Group

Our Homeowner Services Group, through our Service Line Protection Program, provides services to domestic homeowners and smaller commercial establishments to protect against the cost of repairing broken or
leaking water pipes and clogged or blocked sewer pipes inside and outside their accommodations.

Our LineSaver™ program
involves partnering with municipalities to offer our protection programs to homeowners serviced by the municipalities. During 2012, we entered into a contract with the New York City Water Board (the “Board”), a corporate municipal
instrumentality of the State of New York, to offer our LineSaver™ program to the Board’s approximately 650,000 residential customers. We launched our first corresponding mailing in early January 2013.

Our Homeowner Services Group has approximately 970,000 customer contracts in 27 states.

Terratec Environmental Ltd

Our Market-Based Operations also includes our biosolids management group, Terratec, which is located in Canada and provides environmentally sustainable management and disposal of biosolids and
wastewater by-products.

Competition

We face competition in our Market-Based Operations from a number of service providers, including Veolia Environnement, American States Water, OMI and Southwest Water, particularly in the area of O&M
contracting. Securing new O&M contracts is highly competitive, as these contracts are awarded based on a combination of customer relationships, service levels, competitive pricing, references and technical expertise. We also face competition in
maintaining existing O&M contracts to which we are a party, as the municipal and industrial fixed term contracts frequently come up for renegotiation and are subject to an open bidding process.

Our Homeowner Services Group faces competition outside our existing footprint primarily from HomeServe USA and Utility Service Partners,
Inc.

Research and Development

We established a formal research and development program in 1981 with the goal of improving water quality and operational effectiveness in all areas of our business. Our research and development personnel
are located in New Jersey. In addition, our quality control and testing laboratory in Belleville, Illinois supports research through sophisticated testing and analysis. Since its inception, our research and development program has evolved to become
a leading water-related research program, achieving advancements in the science of drinking water, including sophisticated water testing procedures and desalination technologies.

Since the formation of the EPA in 1970, we have collaborated with the agency to achieve effective environmental, health and safety and
water quality regulation. This relationship has developed to include sharing of our research and national water quality monitoring data in addition to our treatment and distribution system optimization research. Our engagement with the EPA has
helped us to achieve a leadership position for our company within the water and wastewater industry and has provided us with early insight into emerging regulatory issues and initiatives, thereby allowing us to anticipate and to accommodate our
future compliance requirements.







In 2012, we spent $2.8 million on research and development compared to $2.6 million and $2.8
million spent in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Approximately one-quarter of our research budget is comprised of competitively awarded outside research grants. Such grants reduce the cost of research and allow collaboration with leading
national and international researchers.

We believe that continued research and development activities are critical in
providing quality and reliable service at reasonable rates, in maintaining our leadership position in the industry and will provide us with a competitive advantage as we seek additional business with new and existing customers.

Support Services

Our
American Water Works Service Company subsidiary provides shared services and corporate governance that achieve economies of scale through central administration. These services are provided predominantly to our Regulated Businesses under the terms
of contracts with these companies that have been approved by state PUCs, where necessary. These services, which are provided at cost, may include accounting, administration, business development, corporate secretarial, education and training,
engineering, financial, health and safety, human resources, information systems, internal audit, legal, operations, procurement, rates, security, risk management, water quality and research and development. These arrangements afford our operating
companies professional and technical talent on an economical and timely basis. We also operate two national customer service centers, which are located in Alton, Illinois and Pensacola, Florida.

Our security department provides oversight and governance of physical and information security throughout our operations and is
responsible for designing, implementing, monitoring and supporting active and effective physical and information security controls. We have complied with EPA regulations concerning vulnerability assessments and have made filings to the EPA as
required. Vulnerability assessments are conducted regularly to evaluate the effectiveness of existing security controls and serve as the basis for further capital investment in security for the facility. Information security controls are deployed or
integrated to prevent unauthorized access to company information systems, assure the continuity of business processes dependent upon automation, ensure the integrity of our data and support regulatory and legislative compliance requirements. While
we do not make public comments on the details of our security programs, we are in contact with federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to coordinate and improve the security of our water delivery systems and to safeguard our water supply.

Employee Matters

Approximately 50% of our workforce is represented by unions. We have 77 collective bargaining agreements in place with 18 different unions representing our unionized employees. We have three union
contracts beyond expiration that affect approximately 200 employees, all of which are actively working under the old agreements. Over one-quarter of our local union contracts will expire during 2013.

In September 2010, we declared “impasse” in negotiations of our national benefits agreement with most of the labor unions
representing employees in our Regulated Businesses. The prior agreement expired on July 31, 2010; however negotiations did not produce a new agreement. We implemented our last, best and final offer on January 1, 2011 in order to provide
health care coverage for our employees in accordance with terms of the offer. The unions have challenged our right to implement our last, best, and final offer. In this regard, following the filing by the Utility Workers Union of America of an
unfair labor practice charge, the National Labor Relations Board (“NLRB”) issued a complaint against us in January 2012, claiming that we implemented the last, best and final offer without providing sufficient notice of the existence of a
dispute with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, a state mediation agency, and several state departments of labor. We asserted that we did, in fact, provide sufficient notice.

On October 16, 2012, the NLRB Administrative Law Judge hearing the matter ruled that, although we did provide sufficient
notification to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, we did not provide notice to







state agencies, in violation of the National Labor Relations Act. The Administrative Law Judge ordered, among other things, that we cease and desist from implementing the terms of our last, best
and final offer and make whole all affected employees for losses suffered as a result of our implementation of our last, best and final offer. The “make whole” order, if upheld on appeal, would require us to provide backpay plus interest,
from January 1, 2011 through the date of the final determination. Based on current estimates and assumptions, we estimate the cash impact could be in the range of $2.5 to $3.5 million per year, with the total impact dependent on the length of
time the issue remains unresolved. In November 2012, we filed an exception to the decision of the Administrative Law Judge in order to obtain a review by the full NRLB.

Available Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We file or furnish annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may obtain a copy of any
of these reports, free of charge, from the Investor Relations section of our website,http://www.amwater.com,shortly after we file or furnish the information to the SEC. Information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated
into, or to be a part of, this report.

You may also obtain a copy of any of these reports directly from the SEC. You may read
and copy any material we file or furnish with the SEC at their Public Reference Room, located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The phone number for information about the operation of the Public Reference Room is 1-800-732-0330 (if you
are calling from within the United States), or 202-551-8090. Because we electronically file our reports, you may also obtain this information from the SEC internet website athttp://www.sec.gov.You can obtain additional contact information
for the SEC on their website.

The American Water corporate governance guidelines and the charters for each of the standing
committees of the board of directors, together with the American Water Code of Ethics and additional information regarding our corporate governance, are available on our website,http://www.amwater.com,and will be made available, without
charge, in print to any shareholder who requests such documents from Investor Relations Department, American Water Works Company, Inc., 1025 Laurel Oak Road, Voorhees, NJ, 08043.



