ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks and uncertainties described below could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and should be considered in evaluating us. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance, or financial condition in the future.

Risks Relating to our Business

Deterioration of general economic conditions could harm our business and results of operations.

Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions.

Volatility in financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact our business and operations in a variety of ways, including as follows:

•consumers may shift purchases to more generic, lower-priced, or other value offerings, or may forego certain purchases altogether during economic downturns, which could result in a reduction in sales of higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings adversely affecting the results of our operations;

•decreased demand in the restaurant business, particularly casual and fine dining, which may adversely affect our Foodservice operations;

•volatility in commodity and other input costs could substantially impact our result of operations;

•volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially impact our pension costs and required pension contributions; and

•it may become more costly or difficult to obtain debt or equity financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future, in each case on terms and within a time period acceptable to us.

Increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits.










Increases in commodity costs may have a negative impact on profits.

We use many different commodities such as wheat, corn, oats, soybeans, beef, pork, poultry, and energy. Commodities are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, external conditions such as weather, and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. Commodity price increases will result in increases in raw material, packaging, and energy costs and operating costs. We may not be able to increase our product prices and achieve cost savings that fully offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume, reduced margins, and profitability. We have experience in hedging against commodity price increases; however, these practices and experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative profit impacts from commodity price increases. We do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and the risk management procedures that we use may not always work as we intend.

Volatility in the market value of derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices will cause volatility in our gross margins and net earnings.

We utilize derivatives to manage price risk for some of our principal ingredients and energy costs, including grains (wheat, corn, and oats), oils, beef, pork, poultry, and energy. Changes in the values of these derivatives are generally recorded in earnings currently, resulting in volatility in both gross margin and net earnings. These gains and losses are reported in cost of goods sold in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and in unallocated general corporate expenses in our segment operating results until we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment operating profit. We may experience volatile earnings as a result of these accounting treatments.

If we do not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly competitive food industry, our profitability could decrease.

Our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to achieve the appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food industry, particularly in an environment of volatile input costs. We continue to implement profit-enhancing initiatives that impact our supply chain and general and administrative functions. These initiatives are focused on cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and customer service, as well as general and administrative overhead levels. Gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. Our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or by eliminating redundant costs resulting from acquisitions could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position. If we do not continue to effectively manage costs and achieve additional efficiencies, our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease.

We may not realize the benefits that we expect from our Supply Chain and Administrative Efficiency Plan, or SCAE Plan.

In May 2013, we announced the Supply Chain and Administrative Efficiency Plan (the "SCAE Plan"), our plan to integrate and restructure the operations of our Private Brands business, improve selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") effectiveness and efficiencies, and optimize our supply chain network, manufacturing assets, dry distribution centers, and mixing centers. In the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we announced plans to realize efficiency benefits by reducing SG&A expenses and enhancing trade spend processes and tools, which plans were included in the SCAE Plan. Although we divested the Private Brands business, we have continued to implement the SCAE Plan, including by working to optimize our supply chain network, pursue cost reductions through our SG&A functions, enhance trade spend processes and tools, and improve productivity.

The successful design and implementation of the SCAE Plan presents significant organizational design and infrastructure challenges and in many cases will require successful negotiations with third parties, including labor organizations, suppliers, business partners, and other stakeholders. In addition, the SCAE Plan may not advance our business strategy as expected. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays, and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings of the SCAE Plan, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. Any failure to implement the SCAE Plan in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.

In addition, the complexity of the SCAE Plan will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. Our management team must successfully implement administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the SCAE Plan. These and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from existing core businesses, integrating financial or other systems, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be adversely affected.










We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our profitability.

We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering, other adulteration of food products, mislabeling, and misbranding. We may be subject to liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. In addition, we will voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or damage. We have issued recalls and have from time to time been and currently are involved in lawsuits relating to our food products. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on the costs of the recall, the destruction of product inventory, product availability, competitive reaction, customer reaction, and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image.

Additionally, as a manufacturer and marketer of food products, we are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other national, state, and local government agencies. The Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, (the "FDCA"), and the Food Safety Modernization Act and their respective regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging, and safety of food products. Some aspects of these laws use a strict liability standard for imposing sanctions on corporate behavior; meaning that no intent is required to be established. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or seizures, as well as criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.

We must identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer food products to meet their preferences.

Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our food products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes, and ingredients. Introduction of new products and product extensions requires significant development and marketing investment. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our strategy to grow sales and profits with investments in acquisitions, marketing, and innovation will be less successful. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, trans fats, sugar, processed wheat, or other product ingredients or attributes.

Changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could adversely affect us.

During fiscal 2017, our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately24%of our net revenues. There can be no assurance that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and other significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.

The sophistication and buying power of our customers could have a negative impact on profits.

Our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have continued to consolidate, resulting in fewer customers on which we can rely for business. These consolidations, the growth of supercenters, and the growth of on-line customers have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power and negotiating strength who are more capable of resisting price increases and can demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specialty tailored products. In addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. These customers may also in the future use more of their shelf space, currently used for our products, for their store brand products. We continue to implement initiatives to counteract these pressures. However, if the larger size of these customers results in additional negotiating strength and/or increased private label or store brand competition, our profitability could decline.

Consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material adverse effect on us. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases.










If we are unable to complete proposed acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected.

From time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. If we are unable to complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions that reduce our profitability.

Our acquisition activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. Those risks include diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties integrating personnel and financial and other systems, effective and immediate implementation of control environment processes across our employee population, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets which would reduce future reported earnings, potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and indemnities and potential disputes with the sellers. Any of these factors could affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.

In fiscal 2017, we completed the Frontera acquisition, which included theFrontera®,Red Fork®, andSalpica®brands, for $108.1 million in cash, net of cash acquired, and the Thanasi acquisition, which included theDuke’s®meat snacks andBIGS®seeds brands, for $217.6 million in cash, net of cash acquired, subject to a working capital adjustment.

If we are unable to complete our proposed divestitures, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected.

From time to time, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or do not meet our growth or profitability targets. We may not be able to complete desired or proposed divestitures on terms favorable to us. Gains or losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may affect our profitability and margins. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to divestitures that reduce our profitability.

Our divestiture activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. Those risks include diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulties separating personnel and financial and other systems, possible need for providing transition services to buyers, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers. Any of these factors could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.

In fiscal 2017, we completed the divestitures of two smaller, non-core businesses (Spicetec Flavors & Seasonings and J.M. Swank) for combined proceeds of $489.0 million, as well as the separation of ConAgra Foods, Inc. into Conagra Brands and Lamb Weston through the Spinoff of Lamb Weston. We also announced a definitive agreement with The J.M. Smucker Company to divest theWesson®oil business, subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals.

Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Our ability to make, move, and sell our products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our supply chain, including third-party manufacturing or transportation and distribution capabilities, due to weather, including any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, government action, or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single supplier or location, could adversely affect our business or financial results. In addition, disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes regarding pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations.










Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our products. Product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling, or contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities; the failure to achieve our goals with respect to sodium or saturated fat; our research and development efforts; or our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use, and waste management. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.

If we fail to comply with the many laws applicable to our business, we may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and penalties.

We are increasingly dependent on information technology, and potential disruption, cyber attacks, security problems, and expanding social media vehicles present new risks.

In addition, the inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage. Negative posts or comments about the Company on any social networking web site could seriously damage its reputation. In addition,










the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss. Identifying new points of entry as social media continues to expand presents new challenges. Any business interruptions or damage to our reputation could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of our common stock.

We rely on our management team and other key personnel.

We depend on the skills, working relationships, and continued services of key personnel, including our experienced management team. In addition, our ability to achieve our operating goals depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented personnel. Any such loss or failure could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results.

In particular, our continued success will depend in part on our ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees. If key employees terminate their employment, or if an insufficient number of employees is retained to maintain effective operations, our business activities may be adversely affected and our management team's attention may be diverted. In addition, we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, all of which could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results.

Our existing and future debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.

As of May 28, 2017, we had a substantial amount of debt, including$2.6 billionaggregate principal amount of senior notes. We have the ability under our existing revolving credit facility to incur substantial additional debt. Our level of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could:

•make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt;

•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes;

•increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions;

•limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or

•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt.

Additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in an event of default under the terms of those instruments and a downgrade to our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. In the event of a default, the holders of our debt could elect to declare all the amounts outstanding under such instruments to be due and payable. Any default under the agreements governing our debt and the remedies sought by the holders of such debt could render us unable to pay principal and interest on our debt.










Impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth.

As of May 28, 2017, we had goodwill of$4.3 billionand other intangibles of$1.2 billion. The net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable). The net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, customer relationships, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. Amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. Impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as the inability to quickly replace lost co-manufacturing business, increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry EBITDA multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer and could result in the incurrence of impairment charges andnegatively impact our net worth.

Our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses.

Inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. Our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements.

Climate change, or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.

The termination or expiration of current co-manufacturing arrangements could reduce our sales volume and adversely affect our results of operations.

Our businesses periodically enter into co-manufacturing arrangements with manufacturers of products. The terms of these agreements vary but are generally for relatively short periods of time. Volumes produced under each of these agreements can fluctuate significantly based upon the product's life cycle, product promotions, alternative production capacity, and other factors, none of which are under our direct control. Our future ability to enter into co-manufacturing arrangements is not guaranteed, and a decrease in current co-manufacturing levels could have a significant negative impact on sales volume.










Ardent Mills may not achieve the benefits that are anticipated from the joint venture.

The benefits that are expected to result from our Ardent Mills joint venture will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated cost synergies in the transaction, Ardent Mills' ability to successfully integrate the ConAgra Mills and Horizon Milling businesses and its ability to successfully manage the joint venture on a going-forward basis. It is not certain that we will realize these benefits at all, and if we do, it is not certain how long it will take to achieve these benefits. If, for example, we are unable to achieve the anticipated cost savings, or if there are unforeseen integration costs, or if Ardent Mills is unable to operate the joint venture smoothly in the future, the financial performance of the joint venture may be negatively affected.

Actions of activist stockholders could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources, and have an adverse effect on our business.

From time to time, we may be subject to proposals by stockholders urging us to take certain corporate actions.  If activist stockholder activities ensue, our business could be adversely affected because responding to proxy contests and reacting to other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees. For example, we may be required to retain the services of various professionals to advise us on activist stockholder matters, including legal, financial and communications advisors, the costs of which may negatively impact our future financial results. In addition, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, strategy or leadership created as a consequence of activist stockholder initiatives may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new investors, customers, employee, and joint venture partners, and cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation.

Risks Relating to our Recently Completed Spinoff of Lamb Weston

We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the Spinoff.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company completed the announced Spinoff of Lamb Weston. Although we believe that separating the Lamb Weston business from the Company will provide financial, operational, managerial, and other benefits to us and our stockholders, the Spinoff may not provide such results on the scope, scale, or timeline we anticipate, and we may not realize the intended benefits of the Spinoff. In addition, we incurred one-time costs in connection with the Spinoff that may negate some of the benefits we expect to achieve. If we do not realize these assumed benefits, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, our operational and financial profile changed upon the separation of the Lamb Weston business from the Company. As a result, the diversification of our revenue sources diminished, and our results of operations, cash flows, working capital, and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility as a result.

We may be exposed to claims and liabilities or incur operational difficulties as a result of the Spinoff.

The Spinoff continues to involve a number of risks, including, among other things, certain indemnification risks and risk associated with the provision of transitional services. In connection with the Spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements (including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, and a trademark license agreement), which we refer to as the Lamb Weston agreements. The Lamb Weston agreements govern the Spinoff and the relationship between the two companies going forward. They also provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time.

The Lamb Weston agreements provides for indemnification obligations designed to make Lamb Weston financially responsible for certain liabilities that may exist relating to its business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the distribution, including any pending or future litigation. It is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us and Lamb Weston and require us to assume responsibility for obligations allocated to Lamb Weston. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of these liabilities or obligations, and the indemnity rights we have under the separation and distribution agreement may not be sufficient to fully cover all of these liabilities and obligations. Even if we are successful in obtaining indemnification, we may have to bear costs temporarily. In addition, our indemnity obligations to Lamb Weston may be significant. These risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.

In addition, certain of the Lamb Weston agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time. As such, there is continued risk that management's and our employees' attention will be significantly diverted by the provision of transitional services. The Lamb Weston agreements could also lead to disputes over rights to certain shared property and rights and over the allocation of costs and revenues for products and operations. If Lamb Weston is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could










incur losses. Our inability to effectively manage separation activities and related events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.

The Spinoff could result in substantial tax liability.

The Spinoff is intended to qualify for tax-free treatment to the Company and its stockholders under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code. Completion of the Spinoff was conditioned upon, among other things, our receipt of an opinion from our tax advisors that the distribution of shares of Lamb Weston in the Spinoff will qualify as tax-free to Lamb Weston, the Company, and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) and related provisions of the Code. The opinion relied on, among other things, various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by the Company and Lamb Weston. If such assumptions or representations are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, the conclusions reached by such advisor in its opinion could be jeopardized. The opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the IRS, or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the qualification of the Spinoff as a transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a) of the Code or that any such challenge would not prevail.

If the Spinoff is determined to be taxable, the Company and its stockholders could incur significant tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.





