Item 1.Business.

Albemarle Corporation was incorporated in Virginia in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 451 Florida Street, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70801. Unless the context otherwise indicates, the terms “Albemarle,” “we,” “us,” “our” or “the Company” mean Albemarle Corporation and our consolidated subsidiaries.

We are a leading global developer, manufacturer and marketer of highly-engineered specialty chemicals that meet customer needs across an exceptionally diverse range of end markets including the petroleum refining, consumer electronics, plastics/packaging, construction, automotive, lubricants, pharmaceuticals, crop protection, food safety and custom chemistry services markets. We are committed to global sustainability and are advancing responsible eco-practices and solutions. We believe that our commercial and geographic diversity, technical expertise, innovative capability, flexible, low-cost global manufacturing base, experienced management team, and strategic focus on our core base technologies will enable us to maintain leading market positions in those areas of the specialty chemicals industry in which we operate.

We and our joint ventures currently operate 49 facilities, encompassing production, research and development facilities, and administrative and sales offices in North and South America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Australia. We serve approximately2,700customers in approximately100countries. For information regarding our unconsolidated joint ventures see Note 8, “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 beginning on page 53.

Business Segments

Through 2013, our operations were managed and reported as three operating segments: Polymer Solutions, Catalysts and Fine Chemistry. Financial results and discussion about our operating segments included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are categorized according to these three operating segments except where noted.

As previously announced on September 23, 2013, we realigned our operating segments effective January 1, 2014. The Performance Chemicals segment will include Fire Safety Solutions, Specialty Chemicals and Fine Chemistry Services, consolidating our bromine, mineral and custom manufacturing assets under one business unit. The Catalyst Solutions segment will include Refinery Catalyst Solutions, Performance Catalyst Solutions and Antioxidants.

For financial information regarding our operating segments, including revenues generated for each of the last three fiscal years from each of the product categories included in our operating segments, and geographic areas, see Note 23, “Operating Segments and Geographic Area Information” to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 beginning on page 53.

Polymer Solutions

Our Polymer Solutions segment consists of two product market categories: flame retardants, and stabilizers and curatives.

Flame Retardants.Our fire safety technology enables the use of plastics in high performance, high heat applications by enhancing the flame resistant properties of these materials. Some of the end market products that benefit from our fire safety technology include plastic enclosures for consumer electronics, printed circuit boards, wire and cable, electrical connectors, textiles and foam insulation. We compete in two major fire safety chemistries: brominated and mineral. Our brominated flame retardants include products sold under the Saytex®brand and our mineral-based flame retardants include products such as Martinal®and Magnifin®. Our strategy is to have a broad range of chemistries applicable to each major flame retardant application.

Stabilizers and Curatives.We produce plastic additives as well as other additives, such as curatives, antioxidants and stabilizers, which are often specially developed and formulated for a customer’s specific manufacturing requirements. Our additives products include curatives for polyurethane, polyurea and epoxy system polymerization. This business also produces antioxidants and stabilizers to improve the performance integrity of thermoplastic resins. We are well-positioned for global growth, notably with our leading antioxidant supplier position in the rapidly growing Chinese market.

Our Ethacure®curatives are used in cast elastomers, coatings, reaction injection molding (RIM) and specialty adhesives that are incorporated into products such as wheels, tires and rollers. Our line of Ethanox®antioxidants is used by manufacturers of polyolefins to maintain physical properties during the manufacturing process, including the color of the final product. These antioxidants are found in applications such as slit film, wire and cable, food packaging and pipes.






Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries



We also produce antioxidants used in fuels and lubricants. Our line of Ethanox®fuel and lubricant antioxidants is used by refiners and fuel marketers to extend fuel storage life and protect fuel systems, and by oil marketers and lubricant manufacturers to extend the useful life of lubricating oils, fluids and greases used in engines and various types of machinery.

Realignment.As previously announced on September 23, 2013, we realigned our operating segments effective January 1, 2014. As a result of this realignment, the Flame Retardants and Curatives product market categories are aligned under the Performance Chemicals segment and the Stabilizers product market category is aligned under the Catalyst Solutions segment.

Customers

Our Polymer Solutions segment offers more than80products to a variety of end markets. We sell our products mostly to chemical manufacturers and processors, such as polymer resin suppliers, lubricant manufacturers, refiners and other specialty chemical companies.



Sales of Polymer Solutions in Asia are expected to grow long-term due to the underlying growth in consumer demand and the shift of the production of consumer electronics from the United States (U.S.) and Europe to Asia. In response to this development, we have established a sales and marketing network in China, Japan, Korea and Singapore with products sourced from the U.S., Europe, China and the Middle East. We are now operating two production facilities in China to deliver polymer solutions products to this rapidly growing market.

A number of customers of our Polymer Solutions segment manufacture products for cyclical industries, including the consumer electronics, building and construction, and automotive industries. As a result, demand from our customers in such industries is also cyclical.

Competition

Our Polymer Solutions segment serves the following geographic markets: the U.S., Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Product performance and quality, price and contract terms are the primary factors in determining which qualified supplier is awarded a contract. Research and development, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel and maintenance of a good safety record have also been important factors to compete effectively in the Polymer Solutions marketplace.

Competition also arises from the substitution of different polymers and resin systems in end-products in an effort to reduce costs or change product qualities. For flame retardants, competition can be introduced from alternative chemistries, which is why our product portfolio includes bromine and mineral chemistries that are common in over70%of high value end uses today. For other additives, competition is introduced by low-cost antioxidant suppliers. We offer our basic antioxidant products from low cost manufacturing sites in China.

We are a market leader in the brominated flame retardants business and our most significant competitors are Chemtura Corporation and Israel Chemicals Ltd. We are also a market leader in the mineral-based flame retardants business. In our mineral-based flame retardants business, our most significant competitors include J.M. Huber Corporation, Kyowa Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. and Nabaltec GmbH. We are a significant player in the stabilizers business and our most significant competitors are BASF Corporation, SK Capital and Songwon Industrial Co., Ltd.

Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts

The major raw materials we use in our Polymer Solutions operations are bromine, bisphenol-A, phenol, benzene, caustic soda, alumina trihydrate, polystyrene and isobutylene, most of which are readily available from numerous independent suppliers and are purchased under contracts at prices we believe are competitive. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market prices although we may use contracts with price caps or other tools, as appropriate, to mitigate price volatility. Many of our customers operate under long-term supply contracts that provide for either the pass-through of raw material and energy cost changes, or pricing based on short-term “tenders” in which changing market conditions are quickly reflected in the pricing of the finished product.

The bromine we use in our Polymer Solutions segment comes from two locations: Arkansas and the Dead Sea. Our brine reserves in Arkansas are supported by an active brine rights leasing program. We believe that we have in excess of70years of proven bromine reserves in Arkansas. In addition, through our 50% interest in Jordan Bromine Company Limited (JBC), a consolidated joint venture with operations in Safi, Jordan, we produce bromine from the Dead Sea, which has virtually inexhaustible reserves. In addition, we have a joint venture with Weifang Sinobrom Import and Export Company, Ltd., or Sinobrom, in China that allows us the option to source bromine directly from China’s Shandong Province brine fields.






Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries



Catalysts

Our Catalysts segment includes our refinery catalysts and performance catalyst solutions businesses.

Refinery Catalyst Solutions.

Our two main refinery catalysts businesses are Clean Fuels Technologies (CFT), primarily composed of hydroprocessing catalysts (HPC), and Heavy Oil Upgrading (HOU), primarily composed of fluidized catalytic cracking (FCC) catalysts and additives. HPC products are widely applied throughout the refining industry. Their application enables the upgrading of oil fractions to clean fuels and other usable oil products by removing sulfur, nitrogen and other impurities from the feedstock. In addition, they improve product properties by adding hydrogen and in some cases improve the performance of downstream catalysts and processes. Albemarle continuously seeks to add more value to refinery operations by offering HPC products that meet our customers’ requirements for profitability and performance in the very demanding refining market. FCC catalysts assist in the high yield cracking of less desired refinery petroleum streams into derivative, higher-value products such as transportation fuels and petrochemical feedstocks like propylene. Our FCC additives are used to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide in FCC units and to increase liquefied petroleum gas olefins yield, such as propylene, and to boost octane in gasoline. Albemarle offers unique refinery catalysts to crack and treat the lightest to the heaviest feedstocks while meeting refinery yield and product needs. We offer a wide range of HPC products and approximately


different FCC catalysts and additives products to our customers.



Performance Catalyst Solutions (PCS).

We have three business units in our PCS division: polymer catalysts, chemical catalysts, and electronic materials. We manufacture organometallic co-catalysts (e.g., aluminum, magnesium and zinc alkyls) as well as metallocene components and co-catalysts (e.g., methylaluminumoxane, organoborons, metallocene compounds, and finished polymerization catalysts comprising these products). We also offer finished single-site catalysts with or without our proprietary ActivCat

®

technology and a line of proprietary Ziegler-Natta catalysts under the Advantage

™

brand. Our co-catalysts and finished catalysts are used in our customers’ production of polyolefin polymers. Such polymers are commodity (i.e., Ziegler-Natta polymerization technology-based) and specialty (i.e., Single Site polymerization technology-based) plastics serving a wide variety of end markets including packaging, non-packaging, films and injection molding. Some of our organometallic products are also used in the manufacture of alpha-olefins (i.e., hexene, octene, decene). In electronic materials, we manufacture and sell high purity metal organic products into electronic applications such as the production of light emitting diodes (LEDs) for displays and general lighting, as well as other products used in the production of solar cells. Our chemical catalysts include a variety of catalysts used in the broad chemical industry, for example, catalysts used in the production of ethylene dichloride and methylamines, among others.

Realignment.As previously announced on September 23, 2013, we realigned our operating segments effective January 1, 2014. As a result of this realignment, the Refinery Catalyst Solutions and PCS businesses are aligned under the Catalyst Solutions segment.

Customers

Our Catalysts segment customers include multinational corporations such as ExxonMobil Corporation, Chevron Corporation, TOTAL S.A., Saudi Basic Industries Corporation and INEOS Group Holdings S.A.; independent petroleum refining companies such as Valero Energy Corporation and SK Holdings; and national petroleum refining companies such as Reliance, Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. and Petróleos Mexicanos.

We estimate that there are currently approximately500FCC units being operated globally, each of which requires a constant supply of FCC catalysts. In addition, we estimate that there are approximately3,000HPC units being operated globally, each of which typically requires replacement HPC catalysts once every one to three years. There are approximately1,000polyolefin and elastomer units worldwide which require a constant supply of co-catalysts and finished catalysts.

Competition

Our Catalysts segment serves the global market including the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Product performance and quality, price and contract terms are the primary factors in determining which qualified supplier is awarded a contract. Research and development, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel and the maintenance of a good safety record have also been important factors to compete effectively in the Catalysts marketplace. Through our research and development programs, we strive to differentiate our business by developing value-added products and products based on proprietary technologies.

We are a market leader in the HPC, FCC and polyolefin organometallic catalysts markets. Our major competitors in the HPC catalysts market include Criterion Catalysts and Technologies, Advanced Refining Technologies and Haldor Topsoe. Our






Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries



major competitors in the FCC catalysts market include W.R. Grace & Co. and BASF Corporation. Our major competitors in the organometallics market include AkzoNobel and Chemtura Corporation, as well as W.R. Grace & Co. and BASF in the Ziegler-Natta catalysts area. Some of our major catalysts competitors have alliances with global major refiners to facilitate new product development and introduction.

Raw Materials

The major raw materials we use in our Catalysts operations include aluminum, ethylene, alpha-olefins, sodium silicate, sodium aluminate, kaolin, rare earths, molybdenum, nickel and cobalt, most of which are readily available from numerous independent suppliers and are purchased or provided under contracts at prices we believe are competitive. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market prices, although we may use contracts with price caps or other tools, as appropriate, to mitigate price volatility. These raw materials may nevertheless be subject to significant volatility despite our mitigating efforts. Our profitability may be affected if we are unable to recover significant raw material costs from our customers.



Fine Chemistry

Our Fine Chemistry segment consists of two categories: Performance Chemicals and Fine Chemistry Services and Intermediates.

Performance Chemicals.Performance Chemicals includes products such as elemental bromine, alkyl bromides, inorganic bromides, brominated powdered activated carbon and a number of bromine fine chemicals. Our products are used in chemical synthesis, oil and gas well drilling and completion fluids, mercury control, paper manufacturing, water purification, beef and poultry processing and various other industrial applications. Other performance chemicals that we produce include tertiary amines for surfactants, biocides, disinfectants and sanitizers and aluminum oxides used in a wide variety of refractory, ceramic and polishing applications.

Fine Chemistry Services and Intermediates.In addition to supplying the specific fine chemistry products and performance chemicals for the pharmaceutical and agricultural uses described below, our fine chemistry services business offers custom manufacturing, research and chemical scale-up services for companies. These services position us to support customers in developing their new products, such as new drugs, specialty materials and agrichemicals.

Our most significant pharmaceutical bulk active is ibuprofen. Ibuprofen is widely used to provide temporary pain relief and fever reduction. Bulk ibuprofen is formulated by pharmaceutical companies that sell in both the prescription and over-the-counter markets. This product competes against other painkillers, including aspirin and acetaminophen. We are one of the largest global producers of ibuprofen. We also produce a range of intermediates used in the manufacture of a variety of over-the-counter and prescription drugs.

Our agrichemicals are sold to agrichemical manufacturers and distributors that produce and distribute finished agricultural herbicides, insecticides, fungicides and soil fumigants. Our products include orthoalkylated anilines used in the acetanilide family of pre-emergent herbicides used with corn, soybeans and other crops and methyl bromide, which is used as a soil fumigant. We also manufacture and supply a variety of custom chemical intermediates for the agricultural industry.

In recent years, the market for methyl bromide has changed significantly, driven by the Montreal Protocol of 1990 and related regulations prompted by findings regarding the chemical’s potential to deplete the ozone layer. Methyl bromide is injected into the soil by end users before planting to eliminate bacteria, nematodes, fungus and weeds. Methyl bromide is used on high-value crops, such as strawberries, tomatoes, melons and peppers.

We will continue to sell methyl bromide in our current markets as regulations allow. In accordance with the Montreal Protocol and the U.S. Clean Air Act, completion of the phase-out of methyl bromide as a fumigant in the U.S., Western Europe and Japan took effect in 2005. Methyl bromide, however, can continue to be used for “critical uses” where there are no other alternatives. Growers submit applications on a yearly basis detailing the amount of methyl bromide they will need for critical uses. Once approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. submits the application for approval by the parties to the Montreal Protocol. The critical use process is done annually and will continue until feasible alternatives are available. Certain other markets for methyl bromide, including quarantine and pre-shipment and chemical intermediate uses, are not restricted by the Montreal Protocol. Our sales of methyl bromide approximated 0.4%, 0.3% and 0.6% of our total annual net sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Realignment.As previously announced on September 23, 2013, we realigned our operating segments effective January 1, 2014. As a result of this realignment, the Performance Chemicals and Fine Chemistry Services and Intermediates product market categories are aligned under the Performance Chemicals segment, effective January 1, 2014.






Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries



Customers

Our Fine Chemistry segment manufactures more than100products, which are used in a variety of end markets. Sales of products and services are mostly to chemical manufacturers and processors (including pharmaceutical and agricultural companies), drilling and oil service companies, beef and poultry processors, water treatment and photographic companies, energy producers and other specialty chemical companies.

Pricing for many of our fine chemistry products and services is based upon negotiation with customers. The critical factors that affect prices are the level of technology differentiation we provide, the maturity of the product and the level of assistance required to bring a new product through a customer’s developmental process.

Competition

Our Fine Chemistry segment serves the following geographic markets: the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Product performance and quality, price and contract terms are the primary factors in determining which qualified supplier is awarded a contract. Research and development, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel and the maintenance of a good safety record have also been important factors to compete effectively in the fine chemistry marketplace.



We are a market leader in the bromine-based product groups and primarily compete with two other integrated global bromine producers, Chemtura Corporation and Israel Chemicals Ltd. We are a leading producer of pharmaceutical bulk actives (i.e., ibuprofen and propofol) and we primarily compete with a few major Western competitors, such as BASF Corporation, Lonza, Clariant Ltd. and Cilag AG; however, there is increasing competition from Asian sources. We differentiate ourselves from our competitors by developing new, high quality innovative products, offering cost reductions and enhancing the services that we offer.

Raw Materials

The major raw materials we use in our Fine Chemistry operations include potassium chloride, chlorine, ammonia, aluminum chloride, alpha-olefins, methyl amines and propylene, most of which are readily available from numerous independent suppliers.

The bromine that we use in our Fine Chemistry segment comes from two locations: Arkansas and the Dead Sea. Our brine reserves in Arkansas are supported by an active brine rights leasing program. We believe that we have in excess of70years of proven bromine reserves in Arkansas. In addition, through our 50% interest in JBC, a consolidated joint venture with operations in Safi, Jordan, we produce bromine from the Dead Sea, which has virtually inexhaustible reserves. In addition, we have our Sinobrom joint venture in China that allows us the option to source bromine directly from China’s Shandong Province brine fields.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

We have an international strategic account program that uses cross-functional teams to serve large global customers. This program emphasizes creative strategies to improve and strengthen strategic customer relationships with emphasis on creating value for customers and promoting post-sale service. Complementing this program are regional Albemarle sales personnel around the world who serve numerous additional customers within North America, Europe, the Middle East, India, Asia Pacific, Russia, Africa and Latin America. We also use approximately85commissioned sales representatives and specialists in specific market areas, some of which are subsidiaries of large chemical companies.

Research and Development

We believe that in order to generate revenue growth, maintain our margins and remain competitive, we must continually invest in research and development, product and process improvements and specialized customer services. Through research and development, we continue to seek increased margins by introducing value-added products and proprietary processes and innovative green chemistry technologies. Our green chemistry efforts focus on the development of products that benefit society in a manner that minimizes waste and the use of raw materials and energy, avoids the use of toxic reagents and solvents and is produced in safe, environmentally friendly manufacturing processes. Green chemistry is encouraged with our researchers through periodic focus group discussions and special rewards and recognition for outstanding new green developments.

Our research and development efforts support each of our business segments. The focus of research in Polymer Solutions is divided among new and improved flame retardants, plastic and other additives and blends, and curing agents. Flame retardant






Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries



research is focused primarily on developing new flame retardants which not only meet the higher performance requirements required by today’s polymer producers, formulators and original equipment manufacturers but which also have superior toxicological and environmental profiles, such as our GreenArmor™flame retardant product, that are greatly enhanced in both end product performance and environmental responsibility. Plastic and other additives research is focused primarily on developing improved capabilities to deliver commodity and value-added plastic and other additive blends to the polymer market. Curatives research is focused primarily on improving and extending our line of curing agents and formulations.

Catalysts research is focused on the needs of our refinery catalysts customers, our performance catalysts customers and developing metal organics for LED and other electronic applications. Refinery catalysts research is focused primarily on the development of more effective catalysts and related additives to produce clean fuels and to maximize the production of the highest value refined products. In the performance catalysts area, we are focused primarily on catalysts, co-catalysts and finished catalysts systems for polymer producers to meet the market’s demand for improved polyolefin polymers and elastomers as well as metal organics for electronic customers.

The primary focus of our Fine Chemistry research program is the development of efficient processes for the manufacture of chemical intermediates and actives for the pharmaceutical and agrichemical industries. Another area of research is the development of bromine-based products for use as biocides in industrial water treatment and food safety applications and as additives used to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants.

We have incurred research and development expenses of$82.2 million,$78.9 million, and$77.1 millionduring2013,2012and2011, respectively.



Intellectual Property

Our intellectual property, including our patents, licenses and trade names, is an important component of our business. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we owned approximately1,700active U.S. and foreign patents and approximately1,200pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We also have acquired rights under patents and inventions of others through licenses, and we license certain patents and inventions to third parties.

Regulation

Our business is subject to a broad array of employee health and safety laws and regulations, including those under the Occupational Safety and Health Act. We also are subject to similar state laws and regulations as well as local laws and regulations for our non-U.S. operations. We devote significant resources and have developed and implemented comprehensive programs to promote the health and safety of our employees and we maintain an active health, safety and environmental program. We finished2013with an occupational injury and illness rate of0.55for Albemarle employees and nested contractors, up from0.23in2012.

Our business and our customers also may be subject to significant requirements under the European Community Regulation for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH). REACH imposes obligations on European Union manufacturers and importers of chemicals and other products into the European Union to compile and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, and perform chemical safety assessments. Additionally, substances of high concern—such as Carcinogenic, Mutagenic and Reprotoxic (CMRs); Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic (PBTs); very Persistent, very Bioaccumulative (vPvB); and endocrine disruptors—will be subject to an authorization process. Authorization may result in restrictions in the use of products by application or even banning the product. In 2009, one of our products was designated by European regulators as a Substance of Very High Concern under authorization, Hexabromocyclododecane (HBCD). Our sales of HBCD approximated1.3%,1.9%and2.1%of our total annual net sales in2013,2012and2011, respectively. In 2012, another of our products, decabromodiphenyl ether (decaBDE) similarly was identified as a Substance of Very High Concern. Our sales of decaBDE approximated 0.3% of our total annual net sales in 2013, and 0.7% of our total annual net sales in 2012 and 2011. In accordance with our voluntary commitment announced in 2009, Albemarle ceased production of decaBDE effective at the end of 2012.

The REACH regulations impose significant additional burdens on chemical producers, importers, downstream users of chemical substances and preparations, and the entire supply chain. Our significant manufacturing presence and sales activities in the European Union will require us to incur significant additional compliance costs and may result in increases in the costs of raw materials we purchase and the products we sell. Increases in the costs of our products could result in a decrease in their overall demand; additionally, customers may seek products that are not regulated by REACH, which could also result in a decrease in the demand of certain of our products subject to the REACH regulations.






Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries



Recently, there has been increased scrutiny of certain brominated flame retardants by regulatory authorities, legislative bodies and environmental interest groups in various countries. We manufacture a broad range of brominated flame retardant products, which are used in a variety of applications. Concern about the impact of some of our products on human health or the environment may lead to regulation, or reaction in our markets independent of regulation.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Ongoing compliance with such laws and regulations is an important consideration for us. Key aspects of our operations are subject to these laws and regulations. In addition, we incur substantial capital and operating costs in our efforts to comply with them.

We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations and may become subject to claims for personal injury and/or property damage relating to the release of such substances into the environment. In addition, some of our current properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes, which could contain currently unknown contamination that could expose us to governmental requirements or claims relating to environmental remediation, personal injury and/or property damage. While we conduct our operations so as to minimize the risk of incurring such losses, the nature of our business and the types of operations in which we engage create a potential for such losses to occur. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of production, pollution and other environmental damages. Depending on the frequency and severity of such incidents, it is possible that the Company’s operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators could be impaired. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our product if they view our safety record as unacceptable. This could also cause us to lose customers and substantial revenues. However, we believe that the likelihood of an environmental-related catastrophic occurrence or a series of occurrences that could materially affect the Company’s financial position or competitiveness is low.

We record accruals for environmental and asset retirement obligation matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that new information or future developments could require us to reassess our potential exposure related to environmental matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in order to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that other developments, such as increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations and orders of regulatory agencies, as well as claims for damages to property and the environment or injuries to employees and other persons resulting from our current or past operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities in the future. As this information becomes available, or other relevant developments occur, we will adjust our accrual amounts accordingly. While there are still uncertainties related to the ultimate costs we may incur, based upon our evaluation and experience to date, we believe our reserves are adequate. We cannot assure you that, as a result of former, current or future operations, there will not be some future impact on us relating to new regulations or additional environmental remediation or restoration liabilities. See “Safety and Environmental Matters” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 50.






Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries



Climate Change

The growing concerns about climate change and the related imposition by governments of more stringent regulations may provide us with new or expanded business opportunities. The Company seeks to capitalize on the “green revolution” by providing solutions to companies pursuing alternative fuel products and technologies (such as renewable fuels, gas-to-liquids and others), emission control technologies (including mercury emissions) and other similar solutions. As demand for, and legislation mandating or incentivizing the use of alternative fuel technologies that limit or eliminate greenhouse gas emissions increase, we continue to monitor the market and offer solutions where we have appropriate technology and believe we are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities that may arise if new legislation is enacted. See page 15 for further discussion on climate change in Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Recent Acquisitions and Joint Ventures

Over the last three years, we have devoted resources to acquisitions and joint ventures, including the subsequent integration of acquired businesses. These acquisitions and joint ventures have expanded our base business, provided our customers with a wider array of products and presented new alternatives for discovery through additional chemistries. Following is a summary of our acquisitions and joint ventures during recent years.

On October 8, 2013, we announced the expansion of our presence in the electronic materials market with the acquisition of Cambridge Chemical Company, Ltd., effective October 1, 2013. Based in Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Chemical is a key technology player for producing high purity metal organic chemicals used in the laser market. Cambridge Chemical’s technology and products will further strengthen Albemarle’s offerings in the electronic market including LED, semiconductor, OLED and now laser. Albemarle will also benefit from a number of R&D and distribution synergies resulting from the acquisition.

On May 11, 2011, we announced that we had expanded our presence in the biofuels market with the acquisition of Catilin Inc., based in Ames, Iowa.

On September 13, 2010, we announced the purchase of certain property and equipment in Yeosu, South Korea in connection with our plans for building a metallocene polyolefin catalyst and trimethyl gallium (TMG) manufacturing site. The site will effectively mirror Albemarle’s world scale metallocene polyolefin catalyst and TMG capabilities located in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Commercial production of metallocene polyolefin catalysts and co-catalysts began in July 2013 and commercial production of TMG is expected to begin in August 2014.

On October 27, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Saudi Specialty Chemicals Company, an affiliate of Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC), to form a joint venture called Saudi Organometallic Chemicals Company (SOCC). Under the terms of the joint venture agreement, the two parent companies have built a world-scale organometallics production facility strategically located in the Arabian gulf industrial city of Al-Jubail. This facility is now operational and available for full commercial production once customer qualifications are completed.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had4,231employees of whom2,148, or51%, are employed in the U.S.;1,152, or27%, are employed in Europe;590, or14%, are employed in Asia and341, or8%, are employed in the Middle East. Approximately14%of our U.S. employees are unionized. We have bargaining agreements at three of our U.S. locations:

•Baton Rouge, Louisiana—United Steel Workers (USW);

•Orangeburg, South Carolina—International Brotherhood of Teamsters-Industrial Trades Division (IBT); and

•Pasadena, Texas—USW; Sheet Metal Workers International Association (SMWIA); United Association of Journeymen & Apprentices of Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry (UAJAPPI); and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW).

We believe that we have good working relationships with these unions, and we have operated without a labor work stoppage at each of these locations for more than 20 years. Bargaining agreements expire at our Pasadena, Texas location in 2014, our Baton Rouge, Louisiana location in 2015 and our Orangeburg, South Carolina location in 2016.

We have two works councils representing the majority of our European sites—Amsterdam, the Netherlands and Bergheim, Germany—covering approximately900employees. We believe that we have a generally good relationship with these councils and bargaining representatives.






Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries



During 2013, we recorded workforce reduction charges of approximately $33.4 million in connection with the realignment of our operating segments effective January 1, 2014, which will result in a reduction of approximately 230 employees worldwide in 2014. During 2012, we recorded workforce reduction charges of approximately $21.6 million in connection with our exit of the phosphorus flame retardants business, whose products were sourced mainly at our Avonmouth, United Kingdom and Nanjing, China manufacturing sites.

Available Information

Our internet website address ishttp://www.albemarle.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as well as reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed pursuant to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. These reports may also be obtained at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The SEC also maintains a website athttp://www.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including Albemarle.



Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit and Finance, Health, Safety and Environment, Executive Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees are also available on our website and are available in print to any shareholder upon request by writing to Investor Relations, 451 Florida Street, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70801, or by calling (225) 388-8011.





