Item 1.Business.

Albemarle
Corporation was incorporated in Virginia in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 451 Florida Street, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70801. Unless the context otherwise indicates, the terms “Albemarle,” “we,”
“us,” “our” or “the Company” mean Albemarle Corporation and our consolidated subsidiaries.

We
are a leading global developer, manufacturer and marketer of highly-engineered specialty chemicals that meet customer needs across an exceptionally diverse range of end markets including the petroleum refining, consumer electronics,
plastics/packaging, construction, automotive, lubricants, pharmaceuticals, crop protection, food-safety and custom chemistry services markets. We are committed to global sustainability and are advancing responsible eco-practices and solutions in our
three business segments. We believe that our commercial and geographic diversity, technical expertise, innovative capability, flexible, low-cost global manufacturing base, experienced management team, and strategic focus on our core base
technologies will enable us to maintain leading market positions in those areas of the specialty chemicals industry in which we operate.

We and our joint ventures currently operate 50 facilities, encompassing production, research and development facilities, and administrative and sales offices in North and South America, Europe, the Middle
East, Asia, Africa and Australia. We serve approximately 3,000 customers in over 100 countries. For information regarding our unconsolidated joint ventures see Note 8, “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements included in
Item 8 beginning on page 51.

Business Segments

Our operations are managed and reported as three operating segments: Polymer Solutions, Catalysts and Fine Chemistry.

For financial information regarding our operating segments, including revenues generated for each of the last three fiscal years from each of the product categories included in our operating segments, and
geographic areas, see Note 23, “Operating Segments and Geographic Area Information” to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 beginning on page 51.

Polymer Solutions

Our Polymer Solutions segment consists of two product
market categories: flame retardants and stabilizers and curatives.

Flame Retardants.Our
fire safety technology enables the use of plastics in high performance, high heat applications by enhancing the flame resistant properties of these materials. Some of the end market products that benefit from our fire safety technology include
plastic enclosures for consumer electronics, printed circuit boards, wire and cable, electrical connectors, textiles, foam insulation, and foam seating in furniture and automobiles. We compete in all of the markets for the major fire safety
chemistries: brominated, mineral and phosphorus. Our brominated flame retardants include products such as
Saytex®; our mineral-based flame retardants include products such as Martinal®and Magnifin®; and our phosphorus-based flame retardants include products such as Antiblaze®and Ncendx®. Our strategy is
to have a broad range of chemistries applicable to each major flame retardant application.

Stabilizers and Curatives.We produce plastic additives as well as other additives, such as curatives, antioxidants and stabilizers, which are often specially developed and formulated for a customer’s specific manufacturing requirements. Our additives products
include curatives for polyurethane, polyurea, and epoxy system polymerization. This business also produces antioxidants and stabilizers to improve the performance integrity of thermoplastic resins. We are well-positioned for global growth, notably
with our leading antioxidant supplier position in the rapidly growing Chinese market.

Our Ethacure®curatives are used in cast elastomers, coatings, reaction injection molding (RIM) and specialty adhesives that are
incorporated into products such as wheels, tires and rollers. Our line of Ethanox®antioxidants is used by
manufacturers of polyolefins to maintain physical properties during the manufacturing process, including the color of the final product. These antioxidants are found in applications such as slit film, wire and cable, food packaging and pipes.

We also produce antioxidants used in fuels and lubricants. Our line of Ethanox®fuel and lubricant antioxidants is used by refiners and fuel marketers to extend fuel storage life and protect fuel
systems, and by oil marketers and lubricant manufacturers to extend the useful life of lubricating oils, fluids and greases used in engines and various types of machinery.

Customers

Our Polymer Solutions segment offers more than 80
products to a variety of end-markets. We sell our products mostly to chemical manufacturers and processors, such as polymer resin suppliers, lubricant manufacturers, refiners and other specialty chemical companies.







Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries







Sales of Polymer Solutions in Asia are expected to grow long-term due to the underlying
growth in consumer demand and the shift of the production of consumer electronics from the United States, or U.S., and Europe to Asia. In response to this development, we have established a sales and marketing network in China, Japan, Korea and
Singapore with products sourced from the U.S., Europe, China and the Middle East. We are now operating three production facilities in China to deliver polymer solutions products to this rapidly growing market.

A number of customers of our Polymer Solutions segment manufacture products for cyclical industries, including the consumer electronics,
building and construction, and automotive industries. As a result, demand from our customers in such industries is also cyclical.

Competition

Our Polymer Solutions segment serves the following
geographic markets: the U.S., Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Product performance and quality, price competition and contract terms are the primary factors in determining which qualified supplier is awarded a
contract. Research and development, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel, and maintenance of a good safety record have also been important factors to compete effectively
in the Polymer Solutions marketplace.

Competition also arises from the substitution of different polymers and resin systems
in end-products in an effort to reduce costs or change product qualities. For flame retardants, competition can be introduced from alternative chemistries, which is why our product portfolio includes bromine, mineral and phosphorus chemistries that
are common in over 80% of end uses today. For other additives, competition is introduced by low-cost antioxidant suppliers. We offer our basic antioxidant products from lower cost manufacturing sites in China.

We are a market leader in the brominated flame retardants business and our most significant competitors are Chemtura Corporation and
Israel Chemicals Ltd, Industrial Products division, or Israel Chemicals. We are also a market leader in the phosphorus-based flame retardants business and in the mineral-based flame retardants business. Our most significant competitors in the
phosphorus-based flame retardants business are Israel Chemicals, Jiangsu Yoke Technology Co., Ltd. and Zhejiang Wansheng Chemical Co., Ltd. In our mineral-based flame retardants business, our most significant competitors include J.M. Huber
Corporation, Kyowa Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. and Nabaltec GmbH. We are a market leader in the plastic additives business and our most significant competitors are BASF Corporation, Chemtura Corporation and Songwon Industrial Co., Ltd.

Raw Materials and Significant Supply Contracts

The major raw materials we use in our Polymer Solutions operations are bromine, bisphenol-A, phenol, benzene, caustic soda, phosphorus oxychloride, alumina trihydrate, polystyrene, isobutylene, and
phosphorous derivatives, most of which are readily available from numerous independent suppliers and are purchased under contracts at prices we believe are competitive. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market prices although we may
use contracts with price caps or other tools, as appropriate, to mitigate price volatility. Many of our customers operate under long-term supply contracts that provide for either the pass-through of raw material and energy cost changes, or pricing
based on short-term “tenders” in which changing market conditions are quickly reflected in the pricing of the finished product.

The bromine we use in our Polymer Solutions segment comes from two locations: Arkansas and the Dead Sea. Our brine reserves in Arkansas are supported by an active brine rights leasing program. We believe
that we have in excess of 50 years of proven bromine reserves in Arkansas. In addition, through our 50% interest in Jordan Bromine Company Limited, or JBC, a consolidated joint venture with operations in Safi, Jordan, we produce bromine from the
Dead Sea, which has virtually inexhaustible reserves. In addition, we have a joint venture with Weifang Sinobrom Import and Export Company, Ltd., or Sinobrom, in China that allows us the option to source bromine directly from China’s Shandong
Province brine fields.

We entered into a range of phosphorus derivative supply agreements with Rhodia S.A. as part of the
acquisition of the Rhodia polyurethane flame retardants business in 2003.

Catalysts

Our Catalysts segment includes our refinery catalysts and performance catalyst solutions (formerly polyolefin catalysts) businesses.

Refinery Catalysts.Our two main refinery catalysts product lines are hydroprocessing catalysts, or HPC, and
fluidized catalytic cracking, or FCC, catalysts and additives. In renewable, non-crude based fuels, we have also launched new catalysts for customers, along with ongoing research and development initiatives with additional potential customers.







Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries







HPC catalysts are primarily used to reduce the quantity of sulfur and other impurities
in petroleum products as well as to convert heavy feedstock into lighter, more valuable products. FCC catalysts assist in the cracking of petroleum streams into derivative, higher-value products such as fuels and petrochemical feedstock. Our FCC
additives are used to remove sulfur in gasoline and to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide in FCC units, to increase liquefied petroleum gas olefins yield and to boost octane in gasoline. We offer approximately 130 different HPC
catalysts products and approximately 40 different FCC catalysts and additives products to our customers.

Performance Catalyst Solutions (PCS).

®

™

Customers

Our Catalysts segment customers include multinational corporations such as ExxonMobil Corporation, Royal Dutch Shell plc, Chevron
Corporation, TOTAL S.A., Saudi Basic Industries Corporation, and INEOS Group Holdings S.A.; independent petroleum refining companies such as Valero Energy Corporation and Tesoro Petroleum Corporation; and national petroleum refining companies such
as Saudi Aramco Refinery Company Ltd., Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. and Petróleos Mexicanos.

We estimate that there
are currently approximately 450 FCC units being operated globally, each of which requires a constant supply of FCC catalysts. In addition, we estimate that there are approximately 3,000 HPC units being operated globally, each of which typically
requires replacement HPC catalysts once every one to three years. There are approximately 1,000 polyolefin and elastomer units worldwide which require a constant supply of co-catalysts and finished catalysts.

Competition

Our Catalysts segment serves the following geographic markets: the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Product performance and quality, price competition and
contract terms are the primary factors in determining which qualified supplier is awarded a contract. Research and development, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel and
the maintenance of a good safety record have also been important factors to compete effectively in the Catalysts marketplace. Through our research and development programs, we strive to differentiate our business by developing value-added products
and products based on proprietary technologies.

We are a market leader in the HPC, FCC, and polyolefin organometallic
catalysts markets. Our major competitors in the HPC catalysts market include Criterion Catalysts and Technologies, W.R. Grace & Co./Advanced Refining Technologies and Haldor Topsoe. Our major competitors in the FCC catalysts market include
W.R. Grace & Co. and BASF Corporation. Our major competitors in the organometallics market include AkzoNobel and Chemtura Corporation, as well as W.R Grace & Co and BASF in the Ziegler Natta catalysts area. Some of our major
catalysts competitors have alliances with global major refiners to facilitate new product development and introduction.

Raw Materials

The major raw materials we use in our Catalysts operations include aluminum, ethylene, alpha-olefins, sodium silicate, sodium aluminate, kaolin, rare earths, molybdenum, nickel and cobalt, most of which
are readily available from numerous independent suppliers and are purchased or provided under contracts at prices we believe are competitive. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market prices, although we may use contracts with price
caps or other tools, as appropriate, to mitigate price volatility. These raw materials may nevertheless be subject to significant volatility despite our mitigating efforts. Our profitability may be affected if we are unable to recover significant
raw material costs from our customers.

Fine Chemistry

Our Fine Chemistry (formerly Fine Chemicals) segment consists of two categories: performance chemicals and fine chemistry services and intermediates.

Performance Chemicals.Performance chemicals include products such as elemental bromine, alkyl bromides, inorganic
bromides, brominated powdered activated carbon and a number of bromine fine chemicals. Our products are used in chemical synthesis, oil and gas well drilling and completion fluids, mercury control, paper manufacturing, water purification, beef and
poultry







Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries







processing and various other industrial applications. Other performance chemicals that we produce include tertiary amines for surfactants, biocides, disinfectants and sanitizers; potassium-based
products used in industrial applications; alkenyl succinic anhydride used in paper-sizing formulations; and aluminum oxides used in a wide variety of refractory, ceramic and polishing applications. We sell these products to customers throughout the
world for use in personal care products, automotive insulation, foundry bricks and other industrial products.

Fine
Chemistry Services and Intermediates.In addition to supplying the specific fine chemistry products and performance chemicals for the pharmaceutical and agricultural uses described below, our fine chemistry services business offers custom
manufacturing, research and chemical scale-up services for companies. We believe that these services position us to support customers in developing their new products, such as new drugs, specialty materials and chemicals from renewables.

Our most significant pharmaceutical bulk active is ibuprofen. Ibuprofen is widely used to provide temporary pain relief and fever
reduction. Bulk ibuprofen is formulated by pharmaceutical companies that sell in both the prescription and over-the-counter markets. This product competes against other painkillers, including aspirin and acetaminophen. We are one of the largest
global producers of ibuprofen. We also produce a range of intermediates used in the manufacture of a variety of over-the-counter and prescription drugs.

Our agrichemicals are sold to agrichemical manufacturers and distributors that produce and distribute finished agricultural herbicides, insecticides, fungicides and soil fumigants. Our products include
orthoalkylated anilines used in the acetanilide family of pre-emergent herbicides used with corn, soybeans and other crops and methyl bromide, which is used as a soil fumigant. We also manufacture and supply a variety of custom chemical
intermediates for the agricultural industry.

In recent years, the market for methyl bromide has changed significantly, driven
by the Montreal Protocol of 1990 and related regulations prompted by findings regarding the chemical’s potential to deplete the ozone layer. Methyl bromide is injected into the soil by end users before planting to eliminate bacteria, nematodes,
fungus and weeds. Methyl bromide is used on high-value crops, such as strawberries, tomatoes, melons and peppers.

We will
continue to sell methyl bromide in our current markets throughout 2012, as current regulations allow, with smaller critical-use allowances compared to 2011. In accordance with the Montreal Protocol and the U.S. Clean Air Act, completion of the
phase-out of methyl bromide as a fumigant in the U.S., Western Europe and Japan took effect in 2005. Methyl bromide, however, can continue to be used for “critical uses” where there are no other alternatives. Growers submit applications on
a yearly basis detailing the amount of methyl bromide they will need for critical uses. Once approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, the U.S. submits the application for approval by the parties to the Montreal Protocol. The
critical use process is done annually and will continue until feasible alternatives are available. Certain other markets for methyl bromide, including quarantine and pre-shipment and chemical intermediate uses, are not restricted by the Montreal
Protocol.

Customers

Our Fine Chemistry segment manufactures more than 100 products, which are used in a variety of end-markets. Sales of products and services are mostly to chemical manufacturers and processors, including
pharmaceutical, agricultural, drilling and oil services, water treatment and photographic companies, and to other specialty chemical companies.

Pricing for many of our fine chemistry products and services is based upon negotiation with customers. The critical factors that affect prices are the level of technology differentiation we provide, the
maturity of the product and the level of assistance required to bring a new product through a customer’s developmental process.

Competition

Our Fine Chemistry segment serves the following
geographic markets: the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, each of which is highly competitive. Product performance and quality, price competition and contract terms are the primary factors in determining which qualified supplier is awarded
a contract. Research and development, product and process improvements, specialized customer services, the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel and the maintenance of a good safety record have also been important factors to compete
effectively in the fine chemistry marketplace.

We are a market leader in the bromine-based products groups and primarily
compete with two other integrated global bromine producers, Chemtura Corporation and Israel Chemicals. We are a leading producer of pharmaceutical bulk actives (i.e., ibuprofen and propofol) and we primarily compete with a few major Western
competitors, such as BASF Corporation, Lonza, Clariant Ltd. and Cilag AG; however, there is increasing competition from Asian sources. We differentiate ourselves from our competitors by developing new, high quality innovative products, offering cost
reductions and enhancing the services that we offer.







Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries







Raw Materials

The major raw materials we use in our Fine Chemistry operations include potassium chloride, chlorine, ammonia, aluminum chloride,
alpha-olefins, methyl amines and propylene, most of which are readily available from numerous independent suppliers.

The
bromine that we use in our Fine Chemistry segment comes from two locations: Arkansas and the Dead Sea. Our brine reserves in Arkansas are supported by an active brine rights leasing program. We believe that we have in excess of 50 years of proven
bromine reserves in Arkansas. In addition, through our 50% interest in JBC, a consolidated joint venture with operations in Safi, Jordan, we produce bromine from the Dead Sea, which has virtually inexhaustible reserves. In addition, we have our
Sinobrom joint venture in China that allows us the option to source bromine directly from China’s Shandong Province brine fields.

Sales, Marketing and Distribution

We have an international strategic account program that uses cross-functional teams to serve large global customers. This program emphasizes creative strategies to improve and strengthen strategic
customer relationships with emphasis on creating value for customers and promoting post-sale service. Complementing this program are regional Albemarle sales personnel around the world who serve numerous additional customers within North America,
Europe, the Middle East, India, Asia Pacific, Russia, Africa and Latin America. We also use more than 60 selected distributors, commissioned sales representatives and specialists in specific market areas, some of which are subsidiaries of large
chemical companies.

Research and Development

We believe that in order to generate revenue growth, maintain our margins, and remain competitive, we must continually invest in research and development, product and process improvements and specialized
customer services. Through research and development, we continue to seek increased margins by introducing value-added products and proprietary processes and innovative green chemistry technologies. Our green chemistry efforts focus on the
development of products that benefit society in a manner that minimizes waste and the use of raw materials and energy, avoids the use of toxic reagents and solvents and is produced in safe, environmentally friendly manufacturing processes. Green
chemistry is encouraged with our researchers through periodic focus group discussions and special rewards and recognition for outstanding new green developments.

Our research and development efforts support each of our business segments. The focus of research in Polymer
Solutions is divided among new and improved flame retardants, plastic and other additives and blends, and curing agents. Flame retardant research is focused primarily on developing new flame retardants which not only meet the higher performance
requirements required by today’s polymer producers, formulators and original equipment manufacturers but which also have superior toxicological and environmental profiles, such as our newly commercialized EarthwiseTMbrand, which provides polymer solutions products (including our
GreenarmorTMproduct) that are greatly enhanced in both
end product performance and environmental responsibility. Plastic and other additives research is focused primarily on developing improved capabilities to deliver commodity and value-added plastic and other additive blends to the polymer market.
Curatives research is focused primarily on improving and extending our line of curing agents and formulations.

Catalysts
research is focused on the needs of our refinery catalysts customers, our performance catalysts customers, and the developing markets for advanced biofuels. Refinery catalysts research is focused primarily on the development of more effective
catalysts and related additives to produce clean fuels and to maximize the production of the highest value refined products. In the performance catalysts area, we are focused primarily on developing metal organics for LED applications, catalysts,
co-catalysts and finished catalysts systems for polymer producers to meet the market’s demand for improved polyolefin polymers and elastomers. For biofuel production, we work closely with customers to develop sustainable and efficient liquid
fuels from renewable resources, including the supply of catalysts for the production of high-performance biodiesel.

The
primary focus of our Fine Chemistry research program is the development of efficient processes for the manufacture of chemical intermediates and actives for the pharmaceutical and agrichemical industries. Another area of research is the development
of bromine-based products for use as biocides in industrial water treatment and food safety applications, and as additives used to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants.

We have recognized research and development expenses of $77.1 million, $58.4 million, and $60.9 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively.

Intellectual Property

Our intellectual property, including our patents, licenses and trade names, is an important component of our business. As of December 31, 2011, we owned approximately 1,600 active U.S. and foreign
patents and approximately 1,400 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We also have acquired rights under patents and inventions of others through licenses, and we license certain patents and inventions to third parties.







Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries







Regulation

Our business is subject to a broad array of employee health and safety laws and regulations, including those under the Occupational Safety and Health Act. We also are subject to similar state laws and
regulations as well as local laws and regulations for our non-U.S. operations. We devote significant resources and have developed and implemented comprehensive programs to promote the health and safety of our employees and we maintain an active
health, safety and environmental program. We finished 2011 with an occupational injury and illness rate of 0.29 for Albemarle employees and nested contractors, down from 0.54 in 2010.

Our business and our customers also may be subject to significant new requirements under the European Commission’s Proposal for the
Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals, or REACH. REACH imposes obligations on European Union manufacturers and importers of chemicals and other products into the European Union to compile and file comprehensive reports, including
testing data, on each chemical substance, and perform chemical safety assessments. Additionally, substances of high concern - such as Carcinogenic, Mutagenic and Reprotoxic, or CMRs; Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic, or PBTs; very Persistent,
very Bioaccumulative, or vPvB; and endocrine disruptors - will be subject to an authorization process. Authorization may result in restrictions in the use of products by application or even banning the product. In 2009, one of our products was
designated by European regulators as a substance of very high concern under authorization, Hexabromocyclododecane, or HBCD. Our sales of HBCD approximated 2.1%, 1.2% and 1.4% of our total annual net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

The REACH regulations impose significant additional burdens on chemical producers, importers, downstream users of chemical
substances and preparations, and the entire supply chain. Our significant manufacturing presence and sales activities in the European Union will require us to incur significant additional compliance costs and may result in increases in the costs of
raw materials we purchase and the products we sell. Increases in the costs of our products could result in a decrease in their overall demand; additionally, customers may seek products that are not regulated by REACH, which could also result in a
decrease in the demand of certain of our products subject to the REACH regulations.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to numerous foreign, federal,
state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Ongoing
compliance with such laws and regulations is an important consideration for us. Key aspects of our operations are subject to these laws and regulations. In addition, we incur substantial capital and operating costs in our efforts to comply with
them.







Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries







under CERCLA and equivalent state statutes may be joint and several, meaning that we could be required to pay in excess of our pro rata share of remediation costs. Our understanding of the
financial strength of other PRPs has been considered, where appropriate, in estimating our liabilities. Accruals for these matters are included in the environmental reserve discussed below. Our management is actively involved in evaluating
environmental matters and, based on information currently available to us, we have concluded that our outstanding environmental liabilities for unresolved waste sites currently known to us should not have a material effect on our operations.

We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations and may become subject to claims for personal injury
and/or property damage relating to the release of such substances into the environment. In addition, some of our current properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes, which could contain currently unknown contamination that could
expose us to governmental requirements or claims relating to environmental remediation, personal injury, and/or property damage. While we conduct our operations so as to minimize the risk of incurring such losses, the nature of our business and the
types of operations in which we engage create a potential for such losses to occur. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of production, pollution and other environmental
damages. Depending on the frequency and severity of such incidents, it is possible that the Company’s operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators could be impaired. In particular, our customers may
elect not to purchase our product if they view our safety record as unacceptable. This could also cause us to lose customers and substantial revenues. However, we believe that the likelihood of an environmental-related catastrophic occurrence or a
series of occurrences that could materially affect the Company’s financial position or competitiveness is low.

We record
accruals for environmental and asset retirement obligation matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that new information or future developments could
require us to reassess our potential exposure related to environmental matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in order to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that other developments, such as
increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations and orders of regulatory agencies, as well as claims for damages to property and the environment or injuries to employees and other persons resulting from our current or past operations, could
result in substantial costs and liabilities in the future. As this information becomes available, or other relevant developments occur, we will adjust our accrual amounts accordingly. While there are still uncertainties related to the ultimate costs
we may incur, based upon our evaluation and experience to date, we believe our reserves are adequate. We cannot assure you that, as a result of former, current or future operations, there will not be some future impact on us relating to new
regulations or additional environmental remediation or restoration liabilities. See “Safety and Environmental Matters” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 47.

Climate Change

The growing concerns about climate change and the related imposition by governments of more stringent regulations may provide us with new or expanded business opportunities. The Company seeks to
capitalize on the “green revolution” by providing solutions to companies pursuing alternative fuel products and technologies (such as biofuels, gas-to-liquids, and others), emission control technologies (including mercury emissions) and
other similar solutions. As demand for, and legislation mandating or incentivizing the use of, alternative fuels and alternative fuel technologies that limit or eliminate greenhouse gas emissions increase, we continue to invest in, and expand our
product offerings of, alternative fuel technologies. As a result of the investments in alternative fuel technology products and services to date and our continued focus on these growth areas, we believe we are well positioned to take advantage of
opportunities that may arise if new legislation is enacted. See also page 15 for further discussion on climate change in Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Recent Acquisitions and Joint Ventures

Over the last three years, we have
devoted resources to acquisitions and joint ventures, including the subsequent integration of acquired businesses. These acquisitions and joint ventures have expanded our base business, provided our customers with a wider array of products and
presented new alternatives for discovery through additional chemistries. Following is a summary of our acquisitions and joint ventures during the last three years.

On May 11, 2011, we announced that we had expanded our presence in the biofuels market with the acquisition of Catilin Inc. Based in Ames, Iowa, Catilin is a technology leader in the development and
application of heterogeneous biodiesel catalysis. Catilin’s technology and products will further strengthen our offerings for the renewable fuels market and will also provide benefit toward a number of research and development and distribution
synergies resulting from the acquisition.

On December 6, 2010, we announced that we had signed a memorandum of
understanding to build a world-scale HPC production plant on the site of our existing joint venture Fábrica Carioca de Catalisadores SA (FCC SA) in Santa Cruz, Brazil with Petrobras. The new facility will complement existing production of FCC
catalysts. We are also further enhancing our partnership with Petrobras by engaging in a joint technical cooperation aimed at the further development of advanced HPC products, mirroring our very successful existing cooperation in the area of FCC
catalysts.







Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries







On September 13, 2010, we announced the purchase of certain property and equipment
in Yeosu, South Korea in connection with our plans for building a metallocene polyolefin catalyst and trimethyl gallium (TMG) manufacturing site. The site will effectively mirror Albemarle’s world scale metallocene polyolefin catalyst and TMG
capabilities located in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

On October 27, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Ibn Hayyan
Plastic Products Company (TAYF), an affiliate of Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC), to form a joint venture called Saudi Organometallic Chemicals Company (SOCC). Under the terms of the joint venture agreement, the two parent companies will
build a world-scale organometallics production facility strategically located in the Arabian gulf industrial city of Al-Jubail. Start-up of this facility is anticipated in late 2012.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we had 4,260 employees of whom
2,155, or 51%, are employed in the U.S.; 1,165, or 27%, are employed in Europe; 615, or 14%, are employed in Asia and 325, or 8%, are employed in the Middle East. Approximately 17% of our U.S. employees are unionized. We have bargaining agreements
at three of our U.S. locations:



•Baton Rouge, Louisiana—United Steel Workers (USW);



•Orangeburg, South Carolina—International Brotherhood of Teamsters-Industrial Trades Division (IBT); and



•Pasadena, Texas—United Steel Workers (USW); Sheet Metal Workers International Association (SMWIA); United Association of Journeymen &
Apprentices of Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry (UAJAPPI); and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW).

We believe that we have good working relationships with these unions, and we have operated without a labor work stoppage at each of these locations for more than 18 years. Bargaining agreements expire at
our Orangeburg, South Carolina location in 2013, our Pasadena, Texas location in 2014 and our Baton Rouge, Louisiana location in 2015.

We have two works councils representing the majority of our European sites—Amsterdam, the Netherlands and Bergheim, Germany—covering approximately 920 employees. In addition, we have
approximately 50 employees at our manufacturing facility in Avonmouth, United Kingdom that are represented by unions through a current collective bargaining agreement. We believe that we have a generally good relationship with these councils and
bargaining representatives. In September 2009, we entered into consultation processes under local laws at our Amsterdam and Bergheim locations for restructuring programs that included planned reductions in force. During the fourth quarter of 2009,
approximately $1.6 million in related charges were recorded for our Amsterdam restructuring program, followed by approximately $6.6 million in charges associated with the program at our Bergheim location during the first quarter of 2010.

Available Information

Our internet website address ishttp://www.albemarle.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as well as
reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed pursuant to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The
information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC. These reports may also be obtained at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, DC 20549. The SEC also maintains a website athttp://www.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including Albemarle.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit, Health Safety and Environmental, Executive
Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees are also available on our website and are available in print to any shareholder upon request by writing to Investor Relations, 451 Florida Street, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70801, or by calling
(225) 388-8011.







Albemarle Corporation and Subsidiaries







