ITEM 1A.Risk Factors

The following are important factors we have identified that could affect our future results. You should consider them carefully when evaluating your investment in our shares or any forward-looking statements made by us, including those contained in this Annual Report, because these factors could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or the performance projected in forward-looking statements. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.

I. Operational Considerations

Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter making future operating results difficult to predict; failure to meet market expectations could cause our stock price to decline.

Our quarterly operating results historically have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including:

•a high percentage of our revenue historically has been generated in the third month of each fiscal quarter and any failure to receive, complete or process orders at the end of any quarter could cause us to fall short of our revenue targets;

•a significant percentage of our revenue comes from transactions with large customers, which tend to have long lead times that are less predictable;

•our operating expenses are largely fixed in the short term and are based on expected revenues and any failure to achieve our revenue targets could cause us to fall short of our earnings targets as well;

•our mix of license and service revenues can vary from quarter to quarter, creating variability in our operating margins;

•because a significant portion of our revenue comes from outside the U.S. and a significant portion of our expense structure is located internationally, shifts in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our reported results; and

•we may incur significant expenses in a quarter in connection with corporate development initiatives, restructuring efforts or our investigation, defense or settlement of legal actions that would increase our operating expenses and reduce our earnings for the quarter in which those expenses are incurred.

Moreover, we recently began offering customers the option of purchasing software licenses as a subscription.  Under the subscription model, significantly less license revenue is likely to be recognized at the time of sale than if the license had been









purchased under our historical perpetual model.  In developing our earnings guidance and targets, we have modeled a certain level of subscription license purchases, however, if a greater percentage of our customers elect to purchase licenses as subscriptions than we have assumed, it will have an adverse impact on revenue, operating margin, cash flow and EPS growth relative to our earnings guidance and targets.

Accordingly, our quarterly results are difficult to predict prior to the end of the quarter and we may be unable to confirm or adjust expectations with respect to our operating results for a particular quarter until that quarter has closed. Any failure to meet our quarterly revenue or earnings targets could adversely impact the market price of our stock.

Our long range financial targets are predicated on revenue growth and operating margin improvements that we may fail to achieve, which could reduce our expected earnings and cause us to fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors and cause our stock price to decline.

We are projecting revenue growth and operating margin improvements in our long range plan through 2018. Our revenue projections include our expectations regarding revenue growth from sales of our CAD, Extended PLM (EPLM), SLM and IoT products and acquired products.  We see the strongest growth potential in the IoT and SLM markets, with more modest growth expectations for CAD (which comprised 43% of our revenue in 2014 and the market for which is mature) and EPLM. We believe we can grow at or modestly faster than the markets in which we participate based on our technology leadership position in these markets.  We may not achieve planned revenue growth if the markets we serve do not grow at expected rates, if we are not able to deliver solutions desired by customers and potential customers, and/or if acquired businesses do not generate the revenue growth that we expect.

We are projecting operating margin improvements predicated on operating leverage as revenue increases, improved operating efficiencies, particularly within our sales organization and service margin improvements.  Services margins are significantly lower than license and support margins.  Future projected improvements in our operating margin as a percent of revenue are based in part on our ability to improve services margins by reducing the amount of direct services that we perform through expansion of our service partner program, and improving the profitability of services that we perform.  If our services revenue increases as a percentage of total revenue and/or if we are unable to improve our services margins, our overall operating margin may not increase to the levels we expect or may decrease.  Additionally, if we do not achieve lower sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue through productivity initiatives, we may not achieve our operating margin targets.  If operating margins do not improve, our earnings could be adversely affected and our stock price could decline.

Global economic weakness may adversely affect our business.



The economies of markets outside the U.S. in which we operate, particularly Europe, Japan and China, are projected to grow at slower rates than the U.S., if at all.  Because approximately 60% of our revenue comes from outside the U.S., weak conditions in those markets could adversely affect our business as customers in those markets may reduce or defer purchases of our products and services.  If the conditions in those markets do not improve or if they, or the U.S. economy, deteriorates, our business could be further adversely affected.



We depend on sales within the discrete manufacturing sector and our business could be adversely affected if manufacturing activity does not grow or if it contracts.



A large amount of our revenue is related to sales to customers in the discrete manufacturing sector. If this economic sector does not grow, or if it contracts, our customers in this sector may reduce or defer purchases of our products and services, which could adversely affect our business.  We expect that the manufacturing sector will be weak in Europe and China in 2015, which could reduce our sales in these areas in 2015 and adversely impact our operating results for 2015.

A significant portion of our revenue is generated from support contracts; decreases in support renewal rates, or a decrease in the number of new licenses we sell, would negatively impact our future support revenue and operating results.

A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from support contracts. These contracts are generally renewed on an annual basis and typically have a high rate of customer renewal. In addition to the recurring revenue base associated with these contracts, a majority of customers purchasing new perpetual licenses also purchase related annual support contracts. If the rate of renewal for these contracts, or the sale of new licenses decreases, our support revenue growth and profitability will be adversely affected.

We face significant competition, which may reduce our profits and limit or reduce our market share.









The market for product development solutions and IoT solutions is rapidly changing and very competitive and there has been a trend in industry consolidation among technology companies. This competition could result in price reductions for our products and services, reduced margins, loss of customers and loss of market share. Our primary competition comes from:

•larger companies that offer competitive solutions;

•larger, more well-known enterprise software providers who have extended, or may seek to extend, the functionality of their products to encompass PLM or who may develop and/or purchase PLM technology; and

•other vendors of various competitive point solutions.

A breach of security in our products or computer systems could compromise the integrity of our products, harm our reputation, create additional liability and adversely impact our financial results.

We have implemented and continue to implement measures intended to maintain the security and integrity of our products, source code and computer systems.  The potential consequences of a security breach or system disruption (particularly through cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists) have increased in scope as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.  A significant breach of the security and/or integrity of our products or systems could prevent our products from functioning properly or could enable access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information, including that of our customers, without authorization. This could require us to incur significant costs of remediation, harm our reputation, cause customers to stop buying our products, and cause us to face lawsuits and potential liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

We must continually modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changing technology and to address our customers’ needs and expectations, and any failure to do so could reduce demand for our products.

Our ability to remain competitive will depend on our ability to enhance our current offerings and develop new products and services that keep pace with technological developments and meet evolving customer requirements. In addition, our solutions must meet customer expectations to be successful. If our solutions fail to meet customer expectations, customers may discontinue adoption of our solutions, resulting in a loss of potential additional sales, and we may be unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers.

Our financial condition could be adversely affected if significant errors or defects are found in our software.

Sophisticated software can sometimes contain errors, defects or other performance problems. If errors or defects are discovered in our current or future products, we may need to expend significant financial, technical and management resources, or divert some of our development resources, in order to resolve or work around those defects, and we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or provide an adequate response to our customers.

Errors, defects or other performance problems in our products could cause us to delay new product releases or customer deployments. Any such delays could cause delays in our ability to realize revenue from the licensing and shipment of new or enhanced products and give our competitors a greater opportunity to market competing products. Such difficulties could also cause us to lose customers. Technical problems or the loss of customers could also damage our business reputation and cause us to lose new business opportunities.

Businesses we acquire may not generate the revenue and earnings we anticipated and may otherwise adversely affect our business.

We have acquired, and intend to continue to acquire, new businesses and technologies. If we fail to successfully integrate and manage the businesses and technologies we acquire, or if an acquisition does not further our business strategy as we expect, our operating results may be adversely affected.

Moreover, business combinations also involve a number of risks and uncertainties that can adversely affect our operations and operating results, including:

•difficulties managing an acquired company’s technologies or lines of business or entering new markets where we have limited or no prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions;

•unanticipated operating difficulties in connection with the acquired entities, including potential declines in revenue of the acquired entity;

•failure to achieve the expected return on our investments which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill;









•diversion of management and employee attention;

•loss of key personnel;

•assumption of unanticipated legal or financial liabilities;

•significant increases in our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; and

•if we were to issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease.

Our sales and operations are globally dispersed, which exposes us to additional operating and compliance risks.

We sell and deliver software and services, and maintain support operations, in a large number of countries whose laws and practices differ from one another. The Americas accounted for 41%, Europe for 39% and Asia-Pacific for 20% of our revenue in 2014. Managing these geographically dispersed operations requires significant attention and resources to ensure compliance with laws. Accordingly, while we strive to maintain a comprehensive compliance program, we cannot guarantee that an employee, agent or business partner will not act in violation of our policies or U.S. or other applicable laws. Such violations can lead to civil and/or criminal prosecutions, substantial fines and the revocation of our rights to continue certain operations and also cause business and reputation loss.  For example, as discussed in Risk Factors II. Other Considerations, we are currently cooperating to provide information to the SEC and Department of Justice in connection with an investigation concerning certain payments and expenses by certain business partners and employees in China that raise questions of compliance with laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and/or compliance with our business policies.

At times we provide extended payment terms to our customers, which may be a factor in our customers’ purchasing decisions, and our revenues could be adversely affected if we ceased making these terms available.

We have provided extended payment terms to certain customers in connection with transactions we have completed with them. Providing extended payment terms may positively influence our customers’ purchasing decisions but may reduce our cash flows in the short-term. If we reduce the amount of extended payment terms we provide to customers, customers might reduce or defer the amount they spend on our products from the amount they might otherwise have spent if extended payment terms were available to them. If this were to occur, our revenue or revenue growth could be lower than in prior periods and/or lower than we expect.

We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights.

Our software products and trademarks, including our company names, product names and logos, are proprietary. We protect our intellectual property rights in these items by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection, as well as restrictions on disclosures and transferability contained in our agreements with other parties. Despite these measures, the laws of all relevant jurisdictions may not afford adequate protection to our products and other intellectual property. In addition, we frequently encounter attempts by individuals and companies to pirate our software. If our measures to protect our intellectual property rights fail, others may be able to use those rights, which could reduce our competitiveness and revenues.

Intellectual property infringement claims could be asserted against us, which could be expensive to defend and could result in limitations on our use of the claimed intellectual property.

The software industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights. If a lawsuit of this type is filed, it could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We cannot be sure that we would prevail against any such asserted claims. If we did not prevail, we could be prevented from using the claimed intellectual property or be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition to possible claims with respect to our proprietary products, some of our products contain technology developed by and licensed from third parties and we may likewise be susceptible to infringement claims with respect to these third-party technologies.

Our current research and development efforts may not generate revenue for several years, if at all.

Developing and localizing software products is expensive, and the investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position.









We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income.

As a multinational organization, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes in the U.S. and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our tax returns are subject to review by various taxing authorities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes could be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.

Our effective tax rate can be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:

•changes in tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate;

•assessments, and any related tax interest or penalties, by taxing authorities;

•changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates;

•changes to the financial accounting rules for income taxes;

•unanticipated changes in tax rates; and

•changes to a valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets, if any.

Because we have substantial cash requirements in the United States and a significant portion of our cash is generated and held outside of the United States, if our cash available in the United States and the cash available under our credit facility is insufficient to meet our operating expenses and debt repayment obligations in the United States, we may be required to raise cash in ways that could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock.

We have significant operations outside the United States. As of September 30, 2014, approximately 75% of our cash and cash equivalents balance was held by subsidiaries outside the United States, with the remainder of the balance held by the U.S. parent or its subsidiaries in the United States. We believe that the combination of our existing United States cash and cash equivalents, future United States operating cash flows and cash available under our credit facility, are sufficient to meet our ongoing United States operating expenses and debt repayment obligations. However, if these sources of cash are insufficient to meet our future financial obligations in the United States, we will be required to seek other available funding sources or means to repatriate cash to the United States, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and the market price of our common stock.

Our sales to government clients subject us to risks of funding approvals.

We derive revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, state and local governments and their respective agencies. There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies to reduce spending. Many of our federal government contracts contain fiscal funding clauses whereby ongoing funding of the contracts is subject to approval of appropriations by the U.S. Congress. Similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. If additional funding for these contracts is not approved, it could reduce revenue we have recognized and reduce future revenue from such contracts.

II. Other Considerations

We have been investigating certain matters in China, which matters and related remedial actions could have an adverse effect on our business and our results.

We have been cooperating to provide information to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice concerning payments and expenses by certain of our business partners in China and/or by employees of our Chinese subsidiary that raise questions concerning compliance with laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Our internal review is ongoing and we continue to respond to requests for information from these agencies, including a subpoena issued to the company by the SEC.  We cannot predict when or how this matter may be resolved.  Resolution of this matter could include fines and penalties; however we are unable to estimate an amount that could be associated with any resolution and, accordingly, we have not recorded a liability for this matter.  If resolution of this matter includes substantial fines or penalties, this could materially impact our results for the period in which the associated liability is recorded or such amounts are paid.  Further, any settlement or other resolution of this matter could have collateral effects on our business in China, the United States and elsewhere.









We terminated certain employees and business partners in China in connection with this matter, which may have an adverse impact on our level of sales in China.  Revenue from China has historically represented 5% to 7% of our total revenue.

We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our credit facility and to make scheduled debt payments as they become due; any failure to comply with those covenants or to make scheduled payments could cause amounts borrowed under the facility to become immediately due and payable or prevent us from borrowing under the facility.

Our credit facility, which consists of a $500 million term loan and a $1 billion revolving loan (and may be increased by an additional$250 million(in the form of revolving loans or term loans, or a combination thereof) if the existing or additional lenders are willing to make such increased commitments) matures on September 15, 2019, at which time any amounts outstanding will be due and payable in full. As of September 30, 2014, we had $612 million outstanding under the credit facility. We may wish to borrow additional amounts under the facility in the future to support our operations, including for strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.

We are required to comply with specified financial and operating covenants and to make scheduled repayments of our term loan, which limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet any payment obligations under the facility could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds.  At September 30, 2014, we had $408 million available to borrow under the revolving loan portion of our credit facility, the availability of which is limited based on financial covenants in the facility.

We may be unable to meet our goal of returning 40% of free cash flow to shareholders through share repurchases, which could decrease your expected return on investment in PTC stock.

In August 2014, we announced a new capital allocation strategy, a component of which is a long-term goal of returning approximately 40% of free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) to shareholders through share repurchases.  Meeting this goal requires PTC to generate consistent free cash flow in the years ahead in an amount sufficient to enable us to continue investing in organic and inorganic growth as well as to return a significant portion of the cash generated to stockholders.  We may not meet this goal if we do not generate the free cash flow we expect or if we use our available cash to satisfy other priorities.  In addition, our cash flow fluctuates over the course of the year and over multiple years, so, although our goal is to return 40% of free cash flow to shareholders, that is an average over a longer term and the number of shares repurchased and amount of free cash flow returned in any given period will vary and may be more or less than 40% in any such period.  Finally, the number of shares repurchased for a given amount of cash will vary based on PTC’s stock price, so the number of shares repurchased will not be a consistent or predictable number or percentage of outstanding stock.

Our stock price has been volatile, which may make it harder to resell your shares at a time and at a price that is favorable to you.

Market prices for securities of software companies are generally volatile and are subject to significant fluctuations unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. The trading prices and valuations of these stocks, and of ours, may not be predictable. Negative changes in the public’s perception of the prospects of software companies, or of PTC or the markets we serve, could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results.

Also, a large percentage of our common stock is held by institutional investors. Purchases and sales of our common stock by these institutional investors could have a significant impact on the market price of the stock. For more information about those investors, please see our proxy statement with respect to our most recent annual meeting of stockholders and Schedules 13D and 13G filed with the SEC with respect to our common stock.



