Item 1A. Risk Factors

The
following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 1. “Business”. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or
elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (MD&A), and the consolidated financial
statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Our businesses
routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our businesses encounter
can be found in the MD&A section and in the business descriptions in Item 1. “Business” of this Form 10-K Report. Below, we describe certain important operational and strategic risks. Our reactions to material future developments
as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments will affect our future results.

Our global growth is subject to economic and
political risks.

We conduct our operations in virtually every part of the world. In 2010, approximately 53% of our revenue was attributable to
activities outside the United States. Our operations are subject to the effects of global competition. They are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which
may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts
to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful, and our ability to engage in such mitigation has decreased or become even more costly as a result of more volatile market conditions.



(15)




We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that may change in significant ways.

We are subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance risks.

We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks in virtually every part of the world. We, our representatives, and the industries in which we operate are at times being reviewed or
investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Additionally, we and our subsidiaries are involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to
clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. These include the dredging of polychlorinated biphenyls from a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State, as described in Item 1. “Business” of this
Form 10-K Report. We are also subject to certain other legal proceedings described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K Report. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the
global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time.



(16)




The success of our business depends on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions, dispositions and joint
ventures.

With respect to acquisitions, mergers and joint ventures, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates at terms acceptable to us or
may not achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of various factors, including integration and collaboration challenges, such as personnel and technology. We will continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses
that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of
our strategic objectives. Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. Even upon reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are
subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing the transaction.

Sustained increases in costs of pension and healthcare benefits may reduce our profitability.

Conditions in the financial and credit markets may affect the availability
and cost of GE Capital funding.



(17)




If conditions in the financial markets deteriorate, it may adversely affect the business and results of operations
of GE Capital.

Increased payment defaults and foreclosures and sustained levels of high unemployment have resulted in significant write-downs of
asset values by financial institutions, including GE Capital. If these conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover fully the value of certain assets, including goodwill, intangibles and tax assets. In
addition, although wehave established allowances for losses in GE Capital’s portfolio of financing receivables that we believe are adequate, further deterioration in the economy and in default and recovery rates could require us to
increase these allowances and write-offs, which, depending on the amount of the increase, could have a material adverse effect on ourbusiness,financial position and results of operations. To reduce GE’s exposure to volatile
conditions in the financial markets and rebalance the relative size of its financial and industrial businesses, we decided to reduce the size of GE Capital, as measured by its ending net investment. While we are currently ahead of our reduction
targets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to timely execute on our reduction targets and failure to do so would result in greater exposure to financial markets than contemplated under our strategic funding plan or may result in the
need for us to make additional contributions to GE Capital.

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect GE Capital.

GE Capital has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial
services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose GE Capital to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, GE
Capital’s credit risk may be increased when the collateral held cannot be realized upon sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. GE Capital also has exposure to
these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments held in its investment portfolios. GE Capital has policies relating to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties (as described in Note 22 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report), which are designed to limit credit and liquidity risk. There can be no assurance, however, that any losses
or impairments to the carrying value of financial assets would not materially and adversely affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of operations.

The real estate markets in which GE Capital participates are highly uncertain, which may adversely affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of operations.

GE Capital participates in the commercial real estate market in two ways: it provides financing for the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of various types of
properties, and it also acquires equity positions in various types of properties or real estate investments. The profitability of real estate investments is largely dependent upon the economic conditions in specific geographic markets in which the
properties are located and the perceived value of those markets at the time of sale. The level of transactions for real estate assets continue to remain at levels below historical norms in many of the markets in which GE Capital operates. Continued
high levels of unemployment, slowdown in business activity, excess inventory capacity and limited availability of credit may continue to adversely affect the value of real estate assets and collateral to real estate loans GE Capital holds. Under
current market and credit conditions, there can be no assurance as to the level of sales GE Capital will complete or the net sales proceeds it will realize. Also, occupancy rates and market rent levels may worsen, which may result in impairments to
the carrying value of equity investments or increases in the allowance for loan losses on commercial real estate loans.

GE Capital is also a
residential mortgage lender in certain geographic markets outside the United States that have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by declines in real estate values and home sale volumes, job losses, consumer bankruptcies and other
factors that may negatively impact the credit performance of our mortgage loans. Our allowance for loan losses on these mortgage loans is based on our analysis of current and historical delinquency and loan performance, as well as other management
assumptions that may be inaccurate predictions of credit performance in this environment. There can be no assurance that, in this environment, credit performance will not be materially worse than anticipated and, as a result, materially and
adversely affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of operations.



(18)




Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity,
competitive position and access to capital markets.

The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based on a number
of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. As of December 31, 2010, GE and GECC’s long-term unsecured debt credit rating from Standard and Poor’s
Ratings Service (S&P) was “AA+” (the second highest of 22 rating categories) with a stable outlook and from Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) was “Aa2” (the third highest of 21 rating categories) with
a stable outlook. As of December 31, 2010, GE, GE Capital Services and GE Capital’s short-term credit rating from S&P was “A-1+” (the highest rating category of six categories) and from Moody’s was “P-1” (the
highest rating category of four categories). There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access
to capital markets. Various debt and derivative instruments, guarantees and covenants would require posting additional capital or collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade, which, depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a material
adverse effect on our liquidity and capital position.

Current conditions in the global economy and the major industries we serve also may materially
and adversely affect the business and results of operations of our non-financial businesses.

Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer
crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services.

Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and
targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training,
comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature
and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions,
which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.

We may face quality problems from operational
failures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations, and we are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for continued revenue
growth.

We produce highly sophisticated products and provide specialized services for both our and third-party products that incorporate or use
leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. While we have built extensive operational processes to ensure that the design, manufacture and servicing of such products meet the most rigorous quality standards, there can be no
assurance that we or our customers will not experience operational process failures that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Such operational failures or



(19)




quality issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the markets in which we operate are subject to
technological change. Our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize
certain products to meet customer requirements.

Our intellectual property portfolio may not prevent competitors from independently developing
products and services similar to or duplicative to ours.

Our patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from independently
developing or selling products and services similar to or duplicative of ours, and there can be no assurance that the resources invested by us to protect our intellectual property will be sufficient or that our intellectual property portfolio will
adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our technology. We could also face competition in some countries where we have not invested in an intellectual property portfolio. In addition, we may be the target of aggressive and
opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including non-practicing entities. Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. If GE is found to infringe any third-party
rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from offering some of our products and services. Also, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain or re-new from third parties the licenses we need in the
future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on reasonable terms.

Significant raw material shortages, supplier capacity
constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products.

Our reliance on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers and service providers and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in
the prices and availability of these materials, parts, components, systems and services. A disruption in deliveries from our third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers or service providers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price
increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. Quality issues experienced by third-party providers can also
adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and result in liability and reputational harm.

