ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The following discussion of risk factors contains "forward-looking statements," as discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements section of this Form 10-K Report. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) section and the consolidated financial statements and related notes of this Form 10-K Report.

GE's Corporate Risk Function leverages the risk framework in each of our businesses, which have adopted an approach that corresponds to the Company's overall risk policies, guidelines and review mechanisms. Our risk framework operates at the business and functional levels and is designed to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks within each of the risk categories below.

Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we presently anticipate. Below, we describe certain important strategic, operational, financial, and legal and compliance risks. Our reactions to material future developments as well as our competitors' reactions to those developments will affect our future results.

STRATEGIC RISKS

Strategic risk relates to the Company's future business plans and strategies, including the risks associated with: the global macro-environment in which we operate; mergers and acquisitions and restructuring activity; intellectual property; and other risks, including the demand for our products and services, competitive threats, technology and product innovation, and public policy.

Global macro-environment - Our growth is subject to global economic and political risks.

We operate in virtually every part of the world and serve customers in approximately 175 countries. In 2014, approximately 50% of our revenue was attributable to activities outside the United States. Our operations are subject to the effects of global competition and geopolitical risks. They are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility, currency controls and actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. While some of these global economic and political risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful, and our ability to engage in such mitigation may decrease or become even more costly as a result of more volatile market conditions.

M&A/restructuring - The success of our business depends on achieving our strategic objectives, including through acquisitions, joint ventures, dispositions and restructurings.

With respect to acquisitions, joint ventures and restructuring actions, we may not achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of various factors, including integration and collaboration challenges, such as personnel and technology. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated cost savings from restructuring actions, which could result in lower margin rates. We also participate in a number of joint ventures with other companies or government enterprises in various markets around the world, including joint ventures where we may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations, which may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. We also continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. For example, delays in obtaining tax rulings and regulatory approvals or clearances, and disruptions or volatility in the capital markets may impact our ability to complete the staged exit from our North American Retail Finance business, Synchrony Financial, as planned. Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. After reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for




RISK FACTORS

the acquisition or disposition of a business, such as the proposed transactions and alliances with Alstom or the proposed sale of Appliances to Electrolux, we are subject to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms as well as satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, which may prevent us from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside our control could affect our future financial results.

Intellectual property - Our intellectual property portfolio may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative to ours.

Our patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from independently developing or selling products and services similar to or duplicative of ours, and there can be no assurance that the resources invested by us to protect our intellectual property will be sufficient or that our intellectual property portfolio will adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our technology. We could also face competition in some countries where we have not invested in an intellectual property portfolio. We also face attempts to gain unauthorized access to our IT systems or products for the purpose of improperly acquiring our trade secrets or confidential business information. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position and the value of our investment in research and development. We may be unable to secure or retain ownership or rights to use data in certain software analytics or services offerings. In addition, we may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including non-practicing entities. Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. If GE is found to infringe any third-party rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from offering some of our products and services. Also, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain or renew from third parties the licenses we need in the future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on reasonable terms.

OPERATIONAL RISKS

Operational risk relates to risks arising from systems, processes, people and external events that affect the operation of our businesses. It includes product life cycle and execution; product safety and performance; information management and data protection and security, including cyber security; supply chain and business disruption; and other risks, including human resources and reputation.

Operations - We may face operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations, and we are dependent on maintenance of existing product lines, market acceptance of new product and service introductions and product and service innovations for continued revenue and earnings growth.

We produce highly sophisticated products and provide specialized services for both our and third-party products that incorporate or use leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. While we have built extensive operational processes to ensure that the design, manufacture and servicing of such products meet the most rigorous quality standards, there can be no assurance that we or our customers or other third parties will not experience operational process failures or other problems, including through cyber attacks and other intentional acts, that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Despite the existence of crisis management or business continuity plans, operational failures or quality issues, including as a result of organizational changes or labor relations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the markets in which we operate are subject to technological change and require skilled talent. Our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products and services, to modify existing products and services, to customize products and services, to respond to technological change and to execute our product and service development in line with our projected performance and/or cost estimates.




RISK FACTORS

Cybersecurity - Increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions, services and data.

Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks pose a risk to the security of GE's and its customers', partners', suppliers' and third-party service providers' products, systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of GE's and its customers' data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, monitoring and testing, and maintenance of protective systems and contingency plans, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. We also may have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. In addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, remediation or increased protection costs, litigation or regulatory action.

Supply chain - Significant raw material shortages, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality and sourcing issues or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products.

Our reliance on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers and service providers, and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials, parts, components, systems and services. Some of these suppliers or their sub-suppliers are limited- or sole-source suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers or service providers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, including as a result of catastrophic events, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. Quality and sourcing issues experienced by third-party providers can also adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and result in liability and reputational harm.

FINANCIAL RISKS

Financial risk relates to our ability to meet financial obligations and mitigate exposure to broad market risks, including volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and commodity prices; credit risk; and liquidity risk, including risk related to our credit ratings and our availability and cost of funding. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from a customer or counterparty failure to meet its contractual obligations. We face credit risk in our industrial businesses, as well as in our GE Capital investing, lending and leasing activities and derivative financial instruments activities. Liquidity risk refers to the potential inability to meet contractual or contingent financial obligations (whether on- or off-balance sheet) as they arise, and could potentially impact an institution's financial condition or overall safety and soundness.

Economy/counter-parties - A deterioration of conditions in the global economy, the major industries we serve or the financial markets, or the soundness of financial institutions and governments we deal with, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.

The business and operating results of our industrial businesses have been, and will continue to be, affected by worldwide economic conditions, including conditions in the air and rail transportation, power generation, oil and gas, healthcare, home building and other major industries we serve. Existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services, including large infrastructure projects, and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion as a result of business deterioration, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing due to slower global economic growth and other challenges affecting the global economy. In particular, the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the U.S. and international economies. An extended period of slow growth in the U.S. or internationally that results in the loss of business and leisure traffic could have a material adverse effect on our airline customers and the viability of their business. Service contract cancellations or customer dynamics such as early aircraft retirements or reduced electricity demand in our Power & Water business could affect our ability to fully recover our




RISK FACTORS

contract costs and estimated earnings. Further, our vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. If slower growth in the global economy continues for a significant period or there is significant deterioration in the global economy, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.

If conditions in the financial markets deteriorate, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover fully the value of certain assets, including real estate, goodwill, intangibles and tax assets. Deterioration in the economy and in default and recovery rates could require us to increase allowances for loan losses, impairments or write-offs, which, depending on the amount of the increase, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.

In addition, GE Capital has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, including sovereign governments, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose GE Capital to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, GE Capital's credit risk may be increased when the value of collateral held cannot be realized through sale or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. GE Capital also has exposure to these financial institutions in the form of cash on deposit and unsecured debt instruments held in its investment portfolios. GE Capital has policies relating to credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties (as described in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K Report), which are designed to limit credit and liquidity risk. There can be no assurance, however, that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of financial assets would not materially and adversely affect GE's or GE Capital's business, financial position and results of operations.

Credit ratings - Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.

The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. As of December 31, 2014, GE and GECC's long-term unsecured debt credit rating from Standard and Poor's Ratings Service (S&P) was AA+ (the second highest of 22 rating categories) with a stable outlook. The long-term unsecured debt credit rating from Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) for GE was Aa3 (the fourth highest of 21 rating categories) and for GECC was A1 (the fifth highest of 21 credit ratings), both with stable outlooks. As of December 31, 2014, GE and GECC's short-term credit rating from S&P was A-1+ (the highest rating category of six categories) and from Moody's was P-1 (the highest rating category of four categories). There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets. Various debt and derivative instruments, guarantees and covenants would require posting additional capital or collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade, which, depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital position.

Funding access/costs - Conditions in the financial and credit markets may affect the availability and cost of funding.

As disclosed in more detail in the Liquidity and Borrowings section of this Form 10-K Report, a portion of our borrowings is in the form of commercial paper and long-term debt. We continue to rely on the availability of the unsecured debt markets to access funding for term and commercial paper maturities for 2014 and beyond and to fund our operations without incurring additional U.S. tax. In addition, we rely on the availability of the commercial paper markets to refinance maturing commercial paper debt throughout the year. In order to further diversify our funding sources, GE Capital continues to expand its reliance on alternative sources of funding, including bank deposits, securitizations and other asset-based funding. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in increasing the diversification of our funding sources or that the short and long-term credit markets will be available or, if available, that the cost of funding will not substantially increase and affect our overall profitability. Factors that may affect the availability of funding or cause an increase in our funding costs include: a decreased reliance on short-term funding, such as commercial paper, in favor of longer-term funding arrangements; decreased capacity and increased competition among debt issuers; increased competition for deposits in our affiliate banks' markets; and potential market disruptions or other impacts arising in the United States or Europe from developments in sovereign debt situations. If




RISK FACTORS

GE Capital's cost of funding were to increase, it may adversely affect its competitive position and result in lower net interest margins, earnings and cash flows as well as lower returns on its shareowners' equity and invested capital.

Social costs - Sustained increases in pension and healthcare benefits costs may reduce our profitability.

Our results of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of income or expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. GAAP requires that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant year-end assumptions we use to estimate pension expense for 2015 are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant reduction or increase to equity. At the end of 2014, the GE Pension Plan was underfunded, on a GAAP basis, by $15.8 billion, and the GE Supplementary Pension Plan, an unfunded plan, had a projected benefit obligation of $6.6 billion. Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are not directly related, key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to pension plans as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Failure to achieve expected returns on plan assets driven by various factors, which could include a continued environment of low interest rates or sustained market volatility, could also result in an increase to the amount of cash we would be required to contribute to pension plans. In addition, upward pressure on the cost of providing healthcare benefits to current employees and retirees may increase future funding obligations. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce our profitability. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by our pension and healthcare benefit obligations, see the Other Consolidated Information – Postretirement Benefit Plans section and Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K Report. See also the Critical Accounting Estimates – Pension Assumptions section of this Form 10-K Report for a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by our pension plan accounting policies.

LEGAL & COMPLIANCE RISKS

Legal and compliance risk relates to risks arising from the government and regulatory environment and action, including resulting from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (DFA); and legal proceedings and compliance with integrity policies and procedures, including those relating to financial reporting, environmental health and safety. Government and regulatory risk includes the risk that the government or regulatory actions will impose additional cost on us or cause us to have to change our business models or practices.

Regulatory - We are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and government policies that may change in significant ways.

Our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies. There can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. In particular, substantial revisions that U.S. and non-U.S. governments are undertaking or considering in areas such as the regulation and supervision of bank and non-bank financial institutions, consumer lending, foreign exchange intervention in response to currency volatility, trade controls, the over-the-counter derivatives market and tax laws and regulations may have an effect on GE's and GE Capital's structure, operations, sales, liquidity, capital requirements, effective tax rate and performance. For example, GE's effective tax rate is reduced because active business income earned and indefinitely reinvested outside the United States is taxed at less than the U.S. rate. A significant portion of this reduction depends upon a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. tax on certain active financial services income until that income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This provision is consistent with international tax norms and permits U.S. financial services companies to compete more effectively with non-U.S. financial institutions in global markets. This provision, which had expired at the end of 2013, was reinstated in December 2014 retroactively for one year through the end of 2014. This provision also had been scheduled to expire and had been extended by Congress on seven previous occasions, but there can be no assurance that it will continue to be extended. In the




RISK FACTORS

event the provision is not extended after 2014, the current U.S. tax imposed on active financial services income earned outside the United States would increase, making it more difficult for U.S. financial services companies to compete in global markets. If this provision is not extended, we expect our effective tax rate to increase significantly after 2015. In addition, efforts by public and private sectors to control the growth of healthcare costs may lead to lower reimbursements and increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. Continued government scrutiny, including reviews of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) medical device pre-market authorization and post-market surveillance processes, may impact the requirements for marketing our products and slow our ability to introduce new products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, we have been, and expect to continue, participating in U.S. and international governmental programs, which require us to comply with strict governmental regulations. Inability to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our status in these projects and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

Dodd-Frank - Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we are subject to prudential oversight by the Federal Reserve, including as a result of GECC's designation as a nonbank systemically important financial institution (nonbank SIFI), which subjects us to increased and evolving regulatory requirements.

GECC is a regulated savings and loan holding company and in 2011 became subject to Federal Reserve Board (FRB) supervision under the DFA. In 2013, the U.S. Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) designated GECC as a nonbank SIFI under the DFA. As a result of this change in supervision and designation, stricter prudential regulatory standards and supervision apply to GECC. On November 25, 2014 the FRB proposed for comment enhanced prudential standards that would apply to GECC as a nonbank SIFI.  This proposal would, among other items, require GECC to comply with rules on capital and liquidity adequacy that apply to large bank holding companies, market terms requirements for intercompany transactions and enhanced risk management and governance requirements.  In addition, while GECC's capital adequacy as a savings and loan holding company, including planned capital distributions such as dividend payments, is currently subject to review by the FRB, the proposed standards would apply stress testing and capital planning requirements to GECC under the FRB's more formal comprehensive capital analysis and review (CCAR) regulations.  The comment period for the proposed standards closed on February 2, 2015, and the exact application of the proposed standards will not be known until after the final rule is published. For additional information, see the Regulations and Supervision and Liquidity and Borrowings sections of this Form 10-K Report.

Legal proceedings - We are subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance risks.

We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks in virtually every part of the world. We, our representatives, and the industries in which we operate are subject to continuing scrutiny by regulators and other governmental authorities, which may, in certain circumstances, lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Additionally, we and our subsidiaries are involved in a number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. These include the dredging of polychlorinated biphenyls from a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State, as described in the Environmental Matters section of this Form 10-K Report. We are also subject to certain other legal proceedings described in the Legal Proceedings section of this Form 10-K Report. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations, including operations of businesses we have recently acquired, means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time.




