ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

LEGAL & COMPLIANCE RISKS

Legal and compliance risk relates to risks arising from the government and regulatory environment and action and from legal proceedings and compliance with integrity policies and procedures, including those relating to financial reporting, environmental health and safety. Government and regulatory risk includes the risk that the government or regulatory actions will impose additional cost on us or require us to make adverse changes to our business models or practices.

Regulatory - We are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and government policies that may change in significant ways.

Our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies. There can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. In particular, legislative, regulatory or other areas of significance for our businesses that U.S. and non-U.S. governments have focused and continue to focus on include competition law, improper payments, data privacy and sovereignty, foreign exchange intervention in response to currency volatility, currency controls that could restrict the movement of liquidity from particular jurisdictions, trade controls or tariffs on imports and exports in the U.S. or other countries, complex economic sanctions and the enactment of U.S. tax reform and potential further changes to tax laws may have an effect on GE's, GE Capital's or other regulated subsidiaries' structure, operations, sales, liquidity, capital requirements, effective tax rate and performance. For example, legislative or regulatory measures by states or non-U.S. governments in response to the recent U.S. federal tax reform or otherwise, or rules and interpretations under the new tax laws, could increase our costs or tax rate. In addition, efforts by public and private sectors to control the growth of healthcare costs may lead to lower reimbursements and increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. Regulation or government scrutiny may impact the requirements for marketing our products and slow our ability to introduce new products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, we have been, and expect to continue, participating in U.S. and international governmental programs, which require us to comply with strict governmental regulations. Inability to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our status in these projects and could have collateral consequences such as limiting our ability to participate in other projects involving multilateral development banks and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

Legal proceedings - We are subject to legal proceedings, investigations and legal compliance risks, including trailing liabilities from businesses that we dispose of or that are inactive.

We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks in virtually every part of the world, including the matters described in the Legal Proceedings and Environmental Matters sections. We, our representatives, and the industries in which we operate are subject to continuing scrutiny by regulators, other governmental authorities and private sector entities or individuals in the U.S., the European Union and other jurisdictions, which may, in certain circumstances, lead to enforcement actions, adverse changes to our business practices, fines and penalties, required remedial actions such as contaminated site clean-up or the assertion of private litigation claims, such as class actions based on alleged securities law violations or breaches of fiduciary duties, and damages that could be material. For example, in connection with our acquisition of Alstom's Thermal, Renewables and Grid businesses in November 2015, we are subject to legacy legal proceedings and legal compliance risks that relate to claimed anti-competitive conduct or improper payments by Alstom in the pre-acquisition period. In addition, our discontinued U.S. mortgage business, WMC, is a defendant in civil litigation arising out of its origination and sale of mortgages from 2005 through 2007, and (as discussed in the Legal Proceedings section) we believe that the U.S Department of Justice is likely to assert that WMC and GE Capital violated the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) in connection with WMC's origination and sale of subprime mortgage loans in 2006 and 2007.

We have established reserves for these and other legal matters when and as appropriate; however, the estimation of legal reserves or possible losses involves significant judgment and may not reflect the full range of uncertainties and unpredictable outcomes inherent in litigation and investigations, and the actual losses arising from particular matters may exceed our current estimates and adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations and the current enforcement environment mean that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist with respect to our continuing and discontinued operations, and we may also be subject to material trailing legal liabilities from businesses that we dispose of or that are inactive. We also expect that additional legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time. Moreover, we are increasingly selling products and services in growth markets where claims arising from a catastrophic product failure, alleged violations of law or other incidents involving our products and services may be adjudicated within legal systems that are less developed and less reliable than those of the U.S. or other more developed markets, and this can create additional uncertainty about the outcome of proceedings before courts or other governmental bodies in such markets. See the Legal Proceedings section and Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about legal proceedings and other loss contingencies.




