ITEM 1A.Risk
    Factors



BUSINESS
    RISKS



The company’s operations involve various risks that could
    have adverse consequences to it. These risks include, among
    others:



Risks of
    the Current Economic Environment



Disruptions
    in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect
    the company’s business, results of operations, cash flows
    and financial condition.



Global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented
    and challenging with tighter credit conditions, slower growth
    and recession in most major economies during the last two years.
    Although signs of recovery may exist, there are continued
    concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the
    availability and cost of credit, a declining real estate market,
    and geopolitical issues that contribute to increased market
    volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy.
    These conditions, combined with declining business activity
    levels and consumer confidence, increased unemployment and
    volatile oil prices, contributed to unprecedented levels of
    volatility in the capital markets during the last two years. Any
    additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital
    and credit markets may adversely affect the company’s
    business, results of operations, cash flows and financial
    condition.



As a result of these market conditions, the cost and
    availability of credit have been and may continue to be
    adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit
    spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally
    and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many
    lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some
    cases, cease to provide funding to businesses and consumers.
    These factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses
    and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global
    infrastructure spending. While the company currently believes
    that it has sufficient working capital and capacity under its
    credit facilities in the near term, continued or recurring
    turbulence in the global markets and economies and prolonged
    declines in business and consumer spending may adversely affect
    its liquidity and financial condition, as well as the liquidity
    and financial condition of its customers. If these market
    conditions persist, recur or worsen in the long term, they may
    limit the company’s ability, and the ability of its
    customers, to timely replace maturing liabilities, and access
    the credit markets to meet liquidity needs.







Certain of the company’s third-party indebtedness is held
    by the company’s consolidated or unconsolidated joint
    ventures. In the event that the company’s joint venture
    partner is unable to meet its obligations under the joint
    venture agreements or the third-party debt agreements, the
    company may elect to pay its joint venture partner’s
    portion of debt to avoid foreclosure on the mortgaged property
    or permit the lender to foreclose on the mortgaged property to
    meet the joint venture’s debt obligations. In either case,
    the company could face a loss of income and asset value on the
    property.



loan-to-value



In the event that the company does not have sufficient cash
    available to it through its operations to continue operating its
    business as usual, the company may need to find alternative ways
    to increase its liquidity. Such alternatives may include,
    without limitation, divesting itself of properties, whether or
    not they otherwise meet the company’s strategic objectives
    to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms; issuing
    and selling its debt and equity in public or private
    transactions under less than optimal conditions; entering into
    leases with its customers at lower rental rates or less than
    optimal terms; or entering into lease renewals with its existing
    customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. There
    can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to
    increase the company’s liquidity will be available to the
    company. Additionally, taking such measures to increase the
    company’s liquidity may adversely affect its business,
    results of operations and financial condition.



As of December 31, 2010, the company had
    $198.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. The
    company’s available cash and cash equivalents are held in
    accounts managed by third-party financial institutions and
    consist of invested cash and cash in its operating accounts. The
    invested cash is invested in money market funds that invest
    solely in direct obligations of the government of the United
    States or in time deposits with certain financial institutions.
    To date, the company has experienced no loss or lack of access
    to its invested cash or cash equivalents; however, the company
    can provide no assurances that access to its invested cash and
    cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in
    the financial markets.



At any point in time, the company also has a significant amount
    of cash deposits in its operating accounts that are with
    third-party financial institutions, and, as of December 31,
    2010, the amount in such deposits was approximately
    $171.3 million on a consolidated basis. These balances
    exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance
    limits. While the company monitors daily the cash balances in
    its operating accounts and adjusts the cash balances as
    appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the
    underlying financial institutions fail or be subject to other
    adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, the
    company has experienced no loss or lack of access to cash in its
    operating accounts.





The
    price per share of the parent company’s stock may decline
    or fluctuate significantly.



The market price per share of the parent company’s common
    stock may decline or fluctuate significantly in response to many
    factors, including:





•general market and economic conditions;



•actual or anticipated variations in the parent company’s
    operating results or dividends or the parent company’s
    payment of dividends in shares of its stock;



•changes in its funds from operations or earnings estimates;



•difficulties or inability to access capital or extend or
    refinance existing debt;



•breaches of covenants and defaults under the operating
    partnership’s credit facilities and other debt;



•decreasing (or uncertainty in) real estate valuations, market
    rents and rental occupancy rates;



•our proposed merger transaction with ProLogis, including
    litigation related to the merger, adverse changes in
    ProLogis’ business or financial condition and any decreases
    in the market price of ProLogis stock;



•a change in analyst ratings or the operating partnership’s
    credit ratings;



•general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in
    interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead
    prospective purchasers of the parent company’s stock to
    demand a higher annual yield from future dividends;



•adverse market reaction to any additional debt the operating
    partnership incurs in the future or any other capital market
    activity the company may conduct, including additional issuances
    of parent company stock;



•adverse market reaction to the company’s strategic
    initiatives and their implementation;



•changes in market valuations of similar companies;



•publication of research reports about the parent company or the
    real estate industry;



•the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the
    attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other
    equity securities (including securities issued by other real
    estate-based companies);



•additions or departures of key management personnel;



•actions by institutional stockholders;



•speculation in the press or investment community;



•terrorist activity may adversely affect the markets in which the
    company’s securities trade, possibly increasing market
    volatility and causing the further erosion of business and
    consumer confidence and spending;



•governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws; and



•the realization of any of the other risk factors included in
    this report.



Many of the factors listed above are beyond the company’s
    control. These factors may cause the market price of shares of
    the parent company’s common stock to decline, regardless of
    its financial condition, results of operations, business or its
    prospects.



Risks
    Related to Our Proposed Merger Transaction with
    ProLogis



We
    will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual
    restrictions while the merger is pending that could adversely
    affect our financial results.



Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees,
    suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on us. These
    uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and
    motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a
    period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers
    and others who deal with us to





seek to change existing business relationships. Employee
    retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior
    to completion of the merger, as employees and prospective
    employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles
    with the combined company.



The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the
    integration may place a significant burden on management and
    internal resources. Any significant diversion of management
    attention away from ongoing business and any difficulties
    encountered in the transition and integration process could
    affect our financial results.



In addition, the merger agreement restricts us, without
    ProLogis’ consent, from making certain acquisitions and
    dispositions, from engaging in certain capital raising
    transactions and taking other specified actions while the merger
    is pending. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing
    attractive business opportunities and making other changes to
    our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of
    the merger agreement.



Pending
    litigation against AMB and ProLogis could result in an
    injunction preventing completion of the merger and the payment
    of damages in the event the merger is completed and/or may
    adversely affect our company’s business, financial
    condition or results of operation before the merger and/or the
    combined company’s business, financial condition or results
    of operations following the merger.



In connection with the merger, purported stockholders of
    ProLogis have filed two putative stockholder class action
    lawsuits against us and ProLogis, among others. Among other
    remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the merger. We may be
    subject to additional stockholder class action lawsuits during
    the pendency of the merger. If a final settlement is not
    reached, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the
    merger and result in substantial costs to us, including any
    costs associated with the indemnification of directors. The
    defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains
    unresolved may adversely affect our business, financial
    condition or results of operationsand/orthe
    combined company’s business, financial condition or results
    of operations.



We may
    be unable to obtain in the anticipated timeframe, or at all,
    satisfaction of all conditions to complete the merger or, in
    order to do so, we may be required to comply with material
    restrictions or conditions that may negatively affect the
    combined company after the merger is completed or cause us to
    abandon the merger. Failure to complete the merger could
    negatively affect our future business and financial
    results.



Completion of the merger is contingent upon, among other things,
    receipt of certain regulatory approvals and the absence of any
    injunction prohibiting the merger. All required regulatory
    authorizations, approvals or consents may not be obtained or may
    contain terms, conditions or restrictions that will be
    detrimental to the combined company after completion of the
    merger.



The stockholders of both AMB and ProLogis must approve the
    merger transaction at special stockholder meetings to be held
    after our merger proxy and registration statement is effective.
    If the stockholders of either company do not approve the merger,
    the merger will not be consummated.



In addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of,
    the merger may take longer than, and could cost more than, we
    expect. Any delay in completing or any additional conditions
    imposed in order to complete the merger may materially adversely
    affect the synergies and other benefits that we and ProLogis
    expect to achieve from the merger and the integration of our
    businesses.



We may be unable to satisfy all the conditions to the merger or
    succeed in any litigation brought in connection with the merger.
    If the merger is not completed, our financial results may be
    adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks,
    including but not limited to:



•payment to ProLogis of a termination fee of $210 million,
    as specified in the merger agreement, depending on the nature of
    the termination;•payment of costs relating to the merger, whether or not the
    merger is completed; and•being subject to litigation related to any failure to complete
    the merger.







Any delay or inability to satisfy all conditions to complete the
    merger, or failure to complete the merger could negatively
    affect our future business, financial condition or results of
    operation.



If
    completed, the merger may not achieve its intended results, and
    we and ProLogis may be unable to successfully integrate our
    operations.



We and ProLogis entered into the merger agreement with the
    expectation that the merger will result in various benefits,
    including, among other things, cost savings and operating
    efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger
    is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the
    businesses of AMB and ProLogis can be integrated in an efficient
    and effective manner.



If the merger is completed, it is possible that the integration
    process could take longer than anticipated and could result in
    the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each
    company’s ongoing businesses, processes and systems or
    inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices,
    policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could
    adversely affect the combined company’s ability to achieve
    the anticipated benefits of the merger. The combined
    company’s results of operations could also be adversely
    affected by any issues attributable to either company’s
    operations that arise or are based on events or actions that
    occur prior to the closing of the merger. The companies may have
    difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures
    and management philosophies. The integration process is subject
    to a number of uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that
    the anticipated benefits will be realized or, if realized, the
    timing of their realization. Failure to achieve these
    anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or
    decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely
    affect the combined company’s future business, results of
    operations, financial condition and prospects.



Debt
    Financing Risks



The
    company faces risks associated with the use of debt to fund its
    business activities, including refinancing and interest rate
    risks.





In addition, if the company mortgages one or more of its
    properties to secure payment of indebtedness and the company is
    unable to meet mortgage payments, then the property could be
    foreclosed upon or transferred to the lender with a consequent
    loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of
    the company’s properties could adversely affect its
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay distributions to the





operating partnership’s unitholders and cash dividends to
    the parent company’s stockholders, and the market price of
    the parent company’s stock.





Adverse
    changes in the company’s credit ratings could negatively
    affect its financing activity.





Covenants
    in the operating partnership’s debt agreements could
    adversely affect its financial condition.



The terms of the operating partnership’s credit agreements
    and other indebtedness require that it complies with a number of
    financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service
    coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage.
    These covenants may limit flexibility in the operating
    partnership’s operations, and its failure to comply with
    these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt
    agreement even if it has satisfied its payment obligations. As
    of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership had certain
    non-recourse, secured loans, which are cross-collateralized by
    multiple properties. If the operating partnership defaults on
    any of these loans, it may then be required to repay such
    indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to
    avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties
    within the applicable pool. Foreclosure on the operating
    partnership’s properties, or its inability to refinance its
    loans on favorable terms, could adversely impact its financial





condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    cash dividends to the parent company’s stockholders or
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders,
    and the market price of the parent company’s stock. In
    addition, the operating partnership’s credit facilities and
    senior debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions,
    which are triggered in the event that its other material
    indebtedness is in default. These cross-default provisions may
    require the operating partnership to repay or restructure the
    credit facilities and the senior debt securities in addition to
    any mortgage or other debt that is in default, which could
    adversely affect the operating partnership’s financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    distributions to its unitholders and the parent company’s
    ability to pay cash dividends to its stockholders and the market
    price of its stock.



Failure
    to hedge effectively against exchange and interest rates may
    adversely affect results of operations.



The company seeks to manage its exposure to exchange and
    interest rate volatility by using exchange and interest rate
    hedging arrangements, such as cap agreements and swap
    agreements. These agreements involve risks, such as the risk
    that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations
    under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be
    effective in reducing the company’s exposure to exchange or
    interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such
    agreements are not legally enforceable. Hedging may reduce
    overall returns on the company’s investments. Failure to
    hedge effectively against exchange and interest rate changes may
    materially adversely affect the company’s results of
    operations.



The
    company is dependent on external sources of
    capital.





The
    operating partnership could incur more debt, increasing its debt
    service.



As of December 31, 2010, the operating partnership’s
    share of totaldebt-to-itsshare of total market capitalization ratio was 41.3%. The
    operating partnership’s definition of “the operating
    partnership’s share of total market capitalization” is
    the operating partnership’s share of total debt plus
    preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. See
    footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratios table contained in
    Part II, Item 7: “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for
    the operating partnership’s definitions of “market
    equity” and “the operating partnership’s share of
    total debt.” As this ratio percentage increases directly
    with a decrease in the market price per share of the parent
    company’s capital stock, an unstable market environment
    will impact this ratio in a volatile manner. There can also





be no assurance that the operating partnership would not become
    more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service
    that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution
    to its unitholders and, in turn, the cash available to
    distribute to the parent company’s stockholders.
    Furthermore, if the operating partnership becomes more highly
    leveraged, the operating partnership may not be in compliance
    with the debt covenants contained in the agreements governing
    its co-investment ventures, which could adversely impact its
    private capital business.



Other
    Real Estate Industry Risks



The
    company’s performance and value are subject to general
    economic conditions and risks associated with its real estate
    assets.



The investment returns available from equity investments in real
    estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital
    appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the
    expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If the
    company’s properties do not generate income sufficient to
    meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital
    expenditures, then the operating partnership’s ability to
    pay distributions to its unitholders (including the parent
    company) and, in turn, the parent company’s ability to pay
    cash dividends to its stockholders could be adversely affected.
    In addition, there are significant expenditures associated with
    an investment in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real
    estate taxes and maintenance costs) that generally do not
    decline when circumstances reduce the income from the property.
    Income from, and the value of, the company’s properties may
    be adversely affected by:



•changes in the general economic climate, such as the current
    one, including diminished access to or availability of capital
    (including difficulties in financing, refinancing and extending
    existing debt) and rising inflation (see “Risks of the
    Current Economic Environment”);•local conditions, such as oversupply of or a reduction in demand
    for industrial space;•the attractiveness of the company’s properties to potential
    customers;•competition from other properties;•the company’s ability to provide adequate maintenance and
    insurance;•increased operating costs;•increased cost of compliance with regulations;•the potential for liability under applicable laws (including
    changes in tax laws); and•disruptions in the global supply chain caused by political,
    regulatory or other factors, including terrorism.



In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the
    United States and in other countries, rising interest rates,
    diminished access to or availability of capital or declining
    demand for real estate, may result in a general decrease in
    rents, an increased occurrence of defaults under existing leases
    or greater difficulty in financing the company’s
    acquisition and development activities, which would adversely
    affect the company’s financial condition and results of
    operations. Future terrorist attacks may result in declining
    economic activity, which could reduce the demand for and the
    value of the company’s properties. To the extent that
    future attacks impact the company’s customers, their
    businesses similarly could be adversely affected, including
    their ability to continue to honor their existing leases.



The company’s properties are concentrated predominantly in
    the industrial real estate sector. As a result of this
    concentration, the company feels the impact of an economic
    downturn in this sector more acutely than if the company’s
    portfolio included other property types.



The
    company may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or
    relet space as leases expire.



As of December 31, 2010, on an owned and managed basis, the
    company’s occupancy average was 91.2%year-to-dateand the leases on 16.4% of the company’s industrial
    properties (based on annualized base rent) will expire on or
    prior to December 31, 2011. The company derives most of its
    income from rent received from its customers. Accordingly, the
    company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flow and its ability to pay





dividends to the parent company’s stockholders and
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders,
    and the market price of the parent company’s stock could be
    adversely affected if the company is unable to lease vacant
    space at favorable rents or terms or at all and to promptly
    relet or renew expiring leases or if the rental rates upon
    leasing, renewal or reletting are significantly lower than
    expected. There can be no assurance that the company will be
    able to lease its vacant space, renew its expiring leases,
    increase its occupancy to its historical averages or generally
    realize the potential of its currently low-yielding assets
    (including the build-out and leasing of its development
    platform). Periods of economic slowdown or recession are likely
    to adversely affect the company’s leasing activities. If a
    customer experiences a downturn in its business or other type of
    financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental
    payments or renew its lease. Further, the company’s ability
    to rent space and the rents that it can charge are impacted, not
    only by customer demand, but by the number of other properties
    the company has to compete with to appeal to customers.



The
    company could be adversely affected if a significant number of
    its customers are unable to meet their lease
    obligations.



The company’s results of operations, distributable cash
    flow and the value of the parent company’s stock would be
    adversely affected if a significant number of the company’s
    customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. In the
    current economic environment, it is likely that customer
    bankruptcies will increase. If a customer seeks the protection
    of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, such customer’s
    lease may be terminated in the process and result in a reduction
    of cash flow to the company. In the event of a significant
    number of lease defaultsand/ortenant bankruptcies, the company’s cash flow may not be
    sufficient to pay distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders and cash dividends to the parent
    company’s stockholders and repay maturing debt and any
    other obligations. As of December 31, 2010, on an owned and
    managed basis, the company did not have any single customer
    account for annualized base rent revenues greater than 3.1%.
    However, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number
    of the company’s customers, the company may incur
    substantial costs in enforcing its rights as landlord.



Declining
    real estate valuations and impairment charges could adversely
    affect the company’s earnings and financial
    condition.



lease-up



The principal trigger which has led to impairment charges in the
    recent past was the severe economic deterioration in some
    markets resulting in a decrease in leasing and rental rates,
    rising vacancies and an increase in capitalization rates.
    Impairments may be necessary in the future in the event that
    market conditions deteriorate and







The
    company’s performance and value are impacted by the local
    economic conditions of and the risks associated with doing
    business in California.



As of December 31, 2010, the company’s industrial
    properties located in California represented 21.1% of the
    aggregate square footage of its industrial operating properties
    and 19.7% of its industrial annualized base rent, on an owned
    and managed basis. The company’s revenue from, and the
    value of, its properties located in California may be affected
    by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or
    reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic
    climate. Business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns,
    changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact
    California’s economic climate. Because of the number of
    properties the company has located in California, a downturn in
    California’s economy or real estate conditions could
    adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash dividends to
    its stockholders and the market price of its stock.



A number of the company’s properties are located in areas
    that are known to be subject to earthquake activity.
    U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include
    properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and
    Seattle. The company’s largest concentration of such
    properties is in California where, on an owned and managed
    basis, as of December 31, 2010, the company had 277
    industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
    29.9 million square feet, on an owned and managed basis.
    International properties located in active seismic areas include
    Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico City, Mexico. The company
    carries earthquake insurance on all of its properties located in
    areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to
    coverage limitations and deductibles that it believes are
    commercially reasonable. The company evaluates its earthquake
    insurance coverage annually in light of current industry
    practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants.



The
    company may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous
    terms or at all or acquisitions may not perform as it
    expects.



On a strategic and selective basis, the company may acquire
    U.S. or foreign properties, portfolios of properties or
    interests in property-owning or real-estate related entities and
    platforms, which could include large acquisitions that could
    increase the company’s size and alter its capital and
    organizational structure. Such acquisitions entail various
    risks, including the risks that the company’s investments
    may not perform or be accretive to the company’s







The
    company is subject to risks and liabilities in connection with
    forming new joint ventures, investing in new or existing joint
    ventures, attracting third party investment and owning
    properties through joint ventures and other investment
    vehicles.



As of December 31, 2010, approximately 91.4 million
    square feet of the company’s properties were held through
    joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with
    third parties. The company’s organizational documents do
    not limit the amount of available funds that it may invest in
    partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures, and
    the company may and currently intends to develop and acquire
    properties through joint ventures, limited liability companies,
    partnerships with and investments in other entities when
    warranted by the circumstances. However, there can be no
    assurance that the company will be able to form new joint
    ventures, attract third party investment or make additional
    investments in new or existing joint ventures, successfully
    develop or acquire properties through such joint ventures, or
    realize value from such joint ventures. The company’s
    inability to do so may have an adverse effect on the
    company’s growth, its earnings and the market price of the
    parent company’s securities.



Joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over
    major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in
    the joint venture investments. Joint venture investments involve
    certain risks, including:



•if the company’s joint venture partners go bankrupt, then
    the company and any other remaining partners may generally
    remain liable for the investment’s liabilities;•if the company’s joint venture partners fail to fund their
    share of any required capital contributions, then the company
    may choose to or be required to contribute such capital;•the company may, under certain circumstances, guarantee all or a
    portion of the joint venture’s debt, which may require the
    company to pay an amount greater than its investment in the
    joint venture;•the company’s joint venture partners might have economic or
    other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the
    company’s business interests or goals that would affect the
    company’s ability to operate the property;•the company’s joint venture partners may have the power to
    act contrary to the company’s instructions, requests,
    policies or objectives, including its current policy with
    respect to maintaining the parent company’s qualification
    as a real estate investment trust;•the joint venture or other governing agreements often restrict
    the transfer of an interest in the joint venture or may
    otherwise restrict the company’s ability to sell the
    interest when it desires or on advantageous terms;







•the company’s relationships with its joint venture partners
    are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or
    dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event,
    the company may not continue to own or operate the interests or
    assets underlying such relationship or may need to purchase such
    interests or assets at an above-market price to continue
    ownership;•disputes between the company and its joint venture partners may
    result in litigation or arbitration that would increase the
    company’s expenses and prevent its officers and directors
    from focusing their time and effort on the company’s
    business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the
    applicable joint venture to additional risk; and•the company may in certain circumstances be liable for the
    actions of its joint venture partners.



The company generally seeks to maintain sufficient control or
    influence over its joint ventures to permit it to achieve its
    business objectives; however, the company may not be able to do
    so, and the occurrence of one or more of the events described
    above could adversely affect the company’s financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    cash dividends to the parent company’s stockholders and
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders
    and the market price of the parent company’s stock.



The
    company may not be successful in contributing properties to its
    co-investment ventures.



The company may contribute or sell properties to certain of its
    co-investment ventures on acase-by-casebasis. However, the company may fail to contribute properties to
    its co-investment ventures due to such factors as its inability
    to acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the
    investment criteria of such ventures, or its co-investment
    ventures’ inability to access debt and equity capital to
    pay for property contributions or their allocation of available
    capital to cover other capital requirements such as forward
    commitments, loan maturities and future redemptions. If the
    co-investment ventures are unable to raise additional capital on
    favorable terms after available capital is depleted or if the
    value of properties to be contributed or sold to the
    co-investment ventures are appraised at less than the cost of
    such properties, then such contributions or sales could be
    delayed or prevented, adversely affecting the company’s
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company’s
    stockholders and distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders, and the market price of the
    parent company’s stock.



A delay in these contributions could result in adverse effects
    on the company’s liquidity and on its ability to meet
    projected earnings levels in a particular reporting period,
    which could have an adverse effect on the company’s results
    of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of its
    securities.



The
    company may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous
    terms or at all.



The company may divest itself of properties, which are currently
    in its portfolio, are held for sale or which otherwise do not
    meet its strategic objectives. The company may, in certain
    circumstances, divest itself of properties to increase its
    liquidity or to capitalize on opportunities that arise. The
    company’s ability to dispose of properties on advantageous
    terms or at all depends on factors beyond its control, including
    competition from other sellers, current market conditions
    (including capitalization rates applicable to its properties)
    and the availability of financing for potential buyers of its
    properties. If the company is unable to dispose of properties on
    favorable terms or at all or redeploy the proceeds of property
    divestitures in accordance with its investment strategy, then
    the company’s financial condition, results of operations,
    cash flow, ability to meet its debt obligations in a timely
    manner and the ability to pay cash dividends and distributions
    could be adversely affected, which could also negatively impact
    the market price of the parent company’s stock.



Actions
    by the company’s competitors may affect the company’s
    ability to divest properties and may decrease or prevent
    increases of the occupancy and rental rates of the
    company’s properties.



The company competes with other owners, operators and developers
    of real estate, some of which own properties similar to the
    company’s properties in the same submarkets in which the
    company’s properties are located. If the company’s
    competitors sell assets similar to assets the company intends to
    divest in the same marketsand/orat
    valuations below the company’s valuations for comparable
    assets, the company may be unable to divest its





assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. In
    addition, if the company’s competitors offer space at
    rental rates below current market rates or below the rental
    rates the company currently charges its customers, the company
    may lose potential customers, and the company may be pressured
    to reduce its rental rates below those the company currently
    charges in order to retain customers when its customers’
    leases expire. As a result, the company’s financial
    condition, cash flow, cash available for distributions and
    dividends and, trading price of the parent company’s stock
    and ability to satisfy the operating partnership’s debt
    service obligations could be materially adversely affected.



The
    company may be unable to complete renovation, development and
    redevelopment projects on advantageous terms or at
    all.



On a strategic and selective basis, the company may develop,
    renovate and redevelop properties. After the financial and real
    estate markets stabilize, the company may expand its investment
    in its development, renovation and redevelopment business and
    complete the build-out and leasing of its development platform.
    The company may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties
    in newly formed development joint ventures into which the
    company may contribute assets. The real estate development,
    renovation and redevelopment business involves significant risks
    that could adversely affect the company’s financial
    condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
    cash dividends to the parent company’s stockholders and
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders
    and the market price of the parent company’s stock, which
    include the following risks:





•the company may not be able to obtain financing for development
    projects on favorable terms or at all and complete construction
    on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased debt
    service expense and construction costs and delays in leasing the
    properties, generating cash flow and, if applicable,
    contributing properties to a joint venture;



•the company may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays
    in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building,
    occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations;



•the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing
    cash flow below budgeted amounts;



•the company may not be able to lease properties on favorable
    terms or at all;



•construction costs, total investment amounts and the
    company’s share of remaining funding may exceed the
    company’s estimates and projects may not be completed,
    delivered or stabilized as planned;



•the company may not be able to attract third party investment in
    new development joint ventures or sufficient customer demand for
    its product;



•the company may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced
    value created by its value-added conversion projects on its
    expected timetables or at all;



•the company may not be able to successfully form development
    joint ventures or capture value from such newly formed ventures;



•the company may fail to contribute properties to its
    co-investment ventures due to such factors as its inability to
    acquire, develop, or lease properties that meet the investment
    criteria of such ventures, or itsco-investmentventures’ inability to access debt and equity capital to
    pay for property contributions or their allocation of available
    capital to cover other capital requirements such as future
    redemptions;



•the company may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if
    there is public opposition to its activities;



•substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment
    activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically
    require a significant amount of management’s time and
    attention, diverting their attention from the company’sday-to-dayoperations; and



•upon completion of construction, the company may not be able to
    obtain, on advantageous terms or at all, permanent financing for
    activities that it has financed through construction loans.







Real
    estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it difficult
    for the company to respond promptly to changing
    conditions.





Risks
    Associated with the Company’s International
    Business



The
    company’s international activities are subject to special
    risks and it may not be able to effectively manage its
    international business.



non-U.S. entities



The company also has offices in many countries outside the
    United States and, as a result, the company’s operations
    may be subject to risks that may limit its ability to
    effectively establish, staff and manage its offices outside the
    United States, including:



•differing employment practices and labor issues;•local business and cultural factors that differ from the
    company’s usual standards and practices;•regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between
    jurisdictions; and•health concerns.



The company’s global growth (including growth in new
    regions in the United States) subjects the company to certain
    risks, including risks associated with funding increasing
    headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective
    controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new
    offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the
    Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, payroll expenses are
    paid in local currencies and, therefore, the company is exposed
    to risks associated with fluctuations in the rate of exchange
    between the U.S. dollar and these currencies.



Further, the company’s business has grown rapidly and may
    continue to grow in a strategic and deliberate manner. If the
    proposed merger with ProLogis is completed, the risks associated
    with the combined company’s





international business will be enhanced due to the combined
    company’s larger international presence. If the company
    fails to effectively manage its international growth or
    integrate the combined company’s international operations
    in the event the merger is completed, then the company’s
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company’s
    stockholders and distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders, and the market price of the
    parent company’s stock could be adversely affected.



The
    company is subject to risks from potential fluctuations in
    exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the
    other countries in which it invests.



The company may pursue growth opportunities in international
    markets on a strategic and selective basis. As the company
    invests in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the
    national currency, the company is subject to international
    currency risks from the potential fluctuations in exchange rates
    between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of those other
    countries. A significant depreciation in the value of the
    currency of one or more countries where the company has a
    significant investment may materially affect its results of
    operations. The company attempts to mitigate any such effects by
    borrowing in the currency of the country in which it is
    investing and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place
    international currency put option contracts to hedge exchange
    rate fluctuations. For leases denominated in international
    currencies, the company may use derivative financial instruments
    to manage the international currency exchange risk. The company
    cannot assure you, however, that its efforts will successfully
    neutralize all international currency risks.



Acquired
    properties may be located in new markets, where the company may
    face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar
    market.



The company has acquired and may continue to acquire properties,
    portfolios of properties, interests in real-estate related
    entities or platforms on a strategic and selective basis in
    international markets that are new to it. When the company
    acquires properties or platforms located in these markets, it
    may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or
    understanding of the local economy, forging new business
    relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local
    government and permitting procedures. The company works to
    mitigate such risks through extensive diligence and research and
    associations with experienced partners; however, there can be no
    guarantee that all such risks will be eliminated.



General
    Business Risks



The
    company faces risks associated with short-term liquid
    investments.



The company continues to have significant cash balances that it
    invests in a variety of short-term investments that are intended
    to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of
    liquidity while providing current income. From time to time,
    these investments may include (either directly or indirectly):



•direct obligations issued by the U.S. Treasury;•obligations issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government or
    its agencies;•taxable municipal securities;•obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks and
    thrifts;•commercial paper and other instruments consisting of short-term
    U.S. dollar denominated obligations issued by corporations
    and banks;•repurchase agreements collateralized by corporate and
    asset-backed obligations;•both registered and unregistered money market funds; and•other highly rated short-term securities.



Investments in these securities and funds are not insured
    against loss of principal. Under certain circumstances the
    company may be required to redeem all or part of its investment,
    and its right to redeem some or all of its investment may be
    delayed or suspended. In addition, there is no guarantee that
    the company’s investments in these





securities or funds will be redeemable at par value. A decline
    in the value of the company’s investment or a delay or
    suspension of its right to redeem may have an adverse effect on
    the company’s results of operations or financial condition.



The
    company may experience losses that its insurance does not
    cover.



co-investment



A number of the company’s properties are located in areas
    that are known to be subject to earthquake activity.
    U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include
    properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and
    Seattle. The company’s largest concentration of such
    properties is in California where, on an owned and managed
    basis, as of December 31, 2010, the company had 277
    industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
    29.9 million square feet and representing 21.1% of its
    industrial operating properties based on aggregate square
    footage and 19.7% based on industrial annualized base rent, on
    an owned and managed basis. International properties located in
    active seismic areas include Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico
    City, Mexico. The company carries earthquake insurance on all of
    its properties located in areas historically subject to seismic
    activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that
    it believes are commercially reasonable. The company evaluates
    its earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current
    industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside
    consultants.



A number of the company’s properties are located in areas
    that are known to be subject to hurricaneand/orflood
    risk. The company carries hurricane and flood hazard insurance
    on all of its properties located in areas historically subject
    to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and
    deductibles that it believes are commercially reasonable. The
    company evaluates its insurance coverage annually in light of
    current industry practice through an analysis prepared by
    outside consultants.



Contingent
    or unknown liabilities could adversely affect the company’s
    financial condition.



The company has acquired and may in the future acquire
    properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or
    with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities.
    As a result, if a liability were asserted against the company
    based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties,
    then the company might have to





pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect
    its cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to
    entities or properties acquired might include:



•liabilities for environmental conditions;•losses in excess of the company’s insured coverage;•accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course
    of business;•tax, legal and regulatory liabilities;•claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the
    company’s predecessors prior to its formation or
    acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were
    unknown prior to the company’s formation or acquisition
    transactions; and•claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and
    directors and others indemnified by the former owners of the
    company’s properties.



Risks
    Associated with the Company’s Dependence on Key
    Personnel



The company depends on the efforts of its executive officers and
    other key employees. From time to time, the company’s
    personnel and their roles may change. As part of the
    company’s cost savings plan in 2008 and 2009, the company
    has reduced its total global headcount and may do so again in
    the future. In connection with the completion of the proposed
    merger with ProLogis, there may be additional changes to the
    company’s personnel and their roles that impact the
    combined company. While the company believes that it has
    retained its key talent, left its global platform intact and can
    find suitable employees to meet its personnel needs, the loss of
    key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of
    their availability could adversely affect the company’s
    financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
    ability to pay cash dividends to the parent company’s
    stockholders and distributions to the operating
    partnership’s unitholders, and the market price of the
    parent company’s stock. The company currently does not have
    employment agreements with any of its executive officers, other
    than agreements that may be contingent on the completion of the
    proposed merger with ProLogis.



Because the company’s compensation packages include
    equity-based incentives, pressure on the parent company’s
    stock price or limitations on the company’s ability to
    award such incentives could affect the company’s ability to
    offer competitive compensation packages to its executives and
    key employees. If the company is unable to continue to attract
    and retain its executive officers, or if compensation costs
    required to attract and retain key employees become more
    expensive, the company’s performance and competitive
    position could be materially adversely affected.



Federal
    Income Tax Risks



The
    parent company’s failure to qualify as a real estate
    investment trust would have serious adverse consequences to
    its stockholders.







its real estate investment trust taxable income (determined
    without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding
    capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a
    quarterly basis. While historically the parent company has
    satisfied the distribution requirement discussed above by making
    cash distributions to its stockholders, the parent company may
    choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of
    cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its
    own stock. For distributions with respect to taxable years
    ending on or before December 31, 2011, and in some cases
    declared as late as December 31, 2012, the parent company
    can satisfy up to 90% of this distribution requirement through
    the distribution of shares of its stock if certain conditions
    are met. The provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and
    applicable Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a
    real estate investment trust are more complicated in the parent
    company’s case because it holds its assets through the
    operating partnership.



If the parent company fails to qualify as a real estate
    investment trust in any taxable year, the parent company will be
    required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable
    alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular
    corporate rates. Unless the parent company is entitled to relief
    under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would be
    disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust
    for the four taxable years following the year in which the
    parent company lost its qualification. If the parent company
    lost its real estate investment trust status, the parent
    company’s net earnings available for investment or
    distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for
    each of the years involved. In addition, the parent company
    would no longer be required to make distributions to its
    stockholders.



Furthermore, the parent company owns a direct or indirect
    interest in certain subsidiary REITs which elected to be taxed
    as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal
    Revenue Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a
    REIT, the parent company’s interest in such subsidiary REIT
    will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes
    of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains
    derived by the parent company from such subsidiary REIT will
    generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of
    the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the
    subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT
    qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail
    to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not
    apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and
    its income would be subject to United States federal income tax.
    In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a
    REIT would have an adverse effect on the parent company’s
    ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus
    the parent company’s ability to qualify as a REIT.



Certain
    property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income,
    resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the
    transaction.





The
    parent company may in the future choose to pay dividends in its
    own stock, in which case you may be required to pay tax in
    excess of the cash you receive.



The parent company may distribute taxable dividends that are
    partially payable in cash and partially payable in its stock. Up
    to 90% of any such taxable dividend with respect to calendar
    years 2008 through 2011, and in some





cases declared as late as December 31, 2012, could be
    payable in the parent company’s stock if certain conditions
    are met. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be
    required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary
    income to the extent of the parent company’s current and
    accumulated earnings and profits for United States federal
    income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be
    required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of
    the cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it
    receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales
    proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with
    respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of the
    parent company’s stock at the time of the sale.
    Furthermore, with respect tonon-U.S. stockholders,the parent company may be required to withhold U.S. tax
    with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a
    portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition,
    if a significant number of the parent company’s
    stockholders determine to sell shares of its stock in order to
    pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the
    trading price of the parent company’s stock.



Legislative
    or regulatory action could adversely affect the parent
    company’s stockholders.



In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and
    administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax
    laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities.
    Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur
    in the future, and there can be no assurance that any such
    changes will not adversely affect the taxation of the parent
    company, the operating partnership, any stockholder of the
    parent company or any limited partner of the operating
    partnership.



Conflicts
    of Interest Risks



Some
    of the company’s directors and executive officers are
    involved in other real estate activities and
    investments and, therefore, may have conflicts of interest
    with the company.



From time to time, certain of the company’s executive
    officers and directors may own interests in other real-estate
    related businesses and investments, including de minimis
    holdings of the equity securities of public and private real
    estate companies. The company’s executive officers’
    involvement in other real estate-related activities could divert
    their attention from the company’sday-to-dayoperations. The company’s executive officers have entered
    into non-competition agreements with the company pursuant to
    which they have agreed not to engage in any activities, directly
    or indirectly, in respect of commercial real estate, and not to
    make any investment in respect of any industrial or retail real
    estate, other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the
    outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such
    activities or through certain specified investments. State law
    may limit the company’s ability to enforce these
    agreements. The company will not acquire any properties from its
    executive officers, directors or their affiliates unless the
    transaction is approved by a majority of the disinterested and
    independent (as defined by the rules of the New York Stock
    Exchange) members of the parent company’s board of
    directors with respect to that transaction.



The
    parent company’s role as general partner of the operating
    partnership may conflict with the interests of its
    stockholders.



As the general partner of the operating partnership, the parent
    company has fiduciary obligations to the operating
    partnership’s limited partners, the discharge of which may
    conflict with the interests of the parent company’s
    stockholders. In addition, those persons holding limited
    partnership units will have the right to vote as a class on
    certain amendments to the operating partnership’s
    partnership agreement and individually to approve certain
    amendments that would adversely affect their rights. The limited
    partners may exercise these voting rights in a manner that
    conflicts with the interests of the parent company’s
    stockholders. In addition, under the terms of the operating
    partnership’s partnership agreement, holders of limited
    partnership units will have approval rights with respect to
    specified transactions that affect all stockholders but which
    they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of
    all stockholders.





Risks
    Associated with Government Regulations



The
    costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and
    any related potential liability could exceed the company’s
    budgets for these items.



Under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a
    current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be
    liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of
    certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at,
    on, under, in or from its property. The costs of removal or
    remediation of such substances could be substantial. These laws
    typically impose liability andclean-upresponsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator
    knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more
    than one person may have been responsible for the contamination,
    each person covered by the environmental laws may be held
    responsible for all of theclean-upcosts incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or
    operator of a site for damages based on personal injury,
    property damage or other costs, including investigation andclean-upcosts, resulting from the environmental contamination.



Environmental laws in some countries, including the United
    States, also require that owners or operators of buildings
    containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos,
    adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with
    asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or
    other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during
    building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines
    and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply
    with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek
    recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated
    with exposure to asbestos. Some of the company’s properties
    are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials.



In addition, some of the company’s properties are leased or
    have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses
    that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other
    hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the
    release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain
    of the company’s properties are on, adjacent to or near
    other properties that have contained or currently contain
    petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or
    upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in
    activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances.
    From time to time, the company may acquire properties, or
    interests in properties, with known adverse environmental
    conditions where the company believes that the environmental
    liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable
    and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted
    return. In such an instance, the company underwrites the costs
    of environmental investigation,clean-upand
    monitoring into the acquisition cost and obtains appropriate
    environmental insurance for the property. Further, in connection
    with certain divested properties, the company has agreed to
    remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or
    monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties.





Compliance
    or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
    and other similar regulations could result in substantial
    costs.



Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public
    accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to
    access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result
    in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the
    award of damages to private litigants. If the company is
    required to make





unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans with
    Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then the
    company’s cash flow and the amounts available for dividends
    to the parent company’s stockholders and distributions to
    the operating partnership’s unitholders may be adversely
    affected. The company’s properties are also subject to
    various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such
    as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. The
    company could incur fines or private damage awards if it fails
    to comply with these requirements. While the company believes
    that its properties are currently in material compliance with
    these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or
    new requirements may be imposed that could require significant
    unanticipated expenditures by the company that will affect its
    cash flow and results of operations.



Risks
    Associated with Ownership of the Parent Company’s
    Stock



Limitations
    in the parent company’s charter and bylaws could prevent a
    change in control.



12-month



The parent company’s charter authorizes it to issue
    additional shares of common and preferred stock and to establish
    the preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class
    of preferred stock that the parent company issues. The parent
    company’s board of directors could establish a series or
    class of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying,
    deferring or preventing a transaction, including a change in
    control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock
    or otherwise be in the best interests of the parent
    company’s stockholders.



The parent company’s charter and bylaws and Maryland law
    also contain other provisions that may impede various actions by
    stockholders without the approval of the parent company’s
    board of directors, which in turn may delay, defer or prevent a
    transaction, including a change in control. The parent
    company’s charter and bylaws include the following
    provisions:



•directors may be removed only for cause and only upon a
    two-thirds vote of stockholders;•the parent company’s board can fix the number of directors
    within set limits (which limits are subject to change by the
    parent company’s board), and fill vacant directorships upon
    the vote of a majority of the





remaining directors, even though less than a quorum, or in the
    case of a vacancy resulting from an increase in the size of the
    board, a majority of the entire board;



•stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or
    propose business for consideration at a stockholders’
    meeting; and•the request of the holders of 50% or more of the parent
    company’s common stock is necessary for stockholders to
    call a special meeting.



Maryland law includes the following provisions:



•a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend the
    parent company’s charter; and•stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous
    approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in
    question.



In addition, the parent company’s board could elect to
    adopt, without stockholder approval, other provisions under
    Maryland law that may impede a change in control.



If the
    parent company issues additional securities, then the investment
    of existing stockholders will be diluted.



As the parent company is a real estate investment trust, the
    company is dependent on external sources of capital and the
    parent company may issue common or preferred stock and the
    operating partnership may issue debt securities to fund the
    company’s future capital needs. The company has the
    authority to issue shares of common stock or other equity or
    debt securities, and to cause the operating partnership or AMB
    Property II, L.P., one of the company’s subsidiaries, to
    issue limited partnership units, in exchange for property or
    otherwise. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to
    acquire any additional securities issued by the operating
    partnership, AMB Property II, L.P., or the parent company and
    any issuance of additional equity securities may adversely
    affect the market price of the parent company’s stock and
    could result in dilution of an existing stockholder’s
    investment. In addition, in the event the proposed merger with
    ProLogis is completed, the investment of existing stockholders
    will be diluted based on the exchange ratio of ProLogis shares
    of common stock into the company’s shares, which will
    result in current AMB stockholders owning approximately 40% of
    the combined company.



Earnings,
    cash dividends, asset value and market interest rates affect the
    price of the parent company’s stock.





The parent company’s board of directors has decided to
    align the parent company’s regular dividend payments with
    the projected taxable income from recurring operations alone.
    The parent company may make special





distributions going forward, as necessary, related to taxable
    income associated with any asset dispositions and gain activity.
    In the past, the parent company’s board of directors has
    suspended dividends to the parent company’s stockholders,
    and it is possible that they may do so again in the future, or
    decide to pay dividends partially in the parent company’s
    own stock as provided for in the Internal Revenue Code.



The
    parent company could change its investment and financing
    policies without a vote of stockholders.



Subject to the parent company’s current investment policy
    to maintain the parent company’s qualification as a real
    estate investment trust (unless a change is approved by the
    parent company’s board of directors under certain
    circumstances), the parent company’s board of directors
    determines the company’s investment and financing policies,
    its growth strategy and its debt, capitalization, distribution
    and operating policies. The parent company’s board of
    directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies at
    any time without a vote of stockholders. Any such changes may
    not serve the interests of all of the parent company’s
    stockholders or the operating partnership’s unitholders and
    could adversely affect the company’s financial condition or
    results of operations, including its ability to pay cash
    dividends to the parent company’s stockholders and
    distributions to the operating partnership’s unitholders.



Shares
    available for future sale could adversely affect the market
    price of the parent company’s common stock.



one-for-one



Risks
    Associated with the Company’s Disclosure Controls and
    Procedures and Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting



The
    company’s business could be adversely impacted if it has
    deficiencies in its disclosure controls and procedures or
    internal control over financial reporting.



The design and effectiveness of the company’s disclosure
    controls and procedures and internal control over financial
    reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or
    misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the
    effectiveness of the company’s disclosure controls and
    procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there
    can be no guarantee that the company’s internal control
    over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all
    control objectives all of the time. Furthermore, the
    company’s disclosure controls and procedures and internal
    control over financial reporting with respect to entities that
    the company does not control or manage or third-party entities
    that the company may acquire may be substantially more limited
    than those the company maintains with respect to the
    subsidiaries that the company has controlled or managed over the
    course of





time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in the
    company’s internal control over financial reporting which
    may occur in the future could result in misstatements of the
    company’s results of operations, restatements of its
    financial statements, a decline in the parent company’s
    stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect the
    company’s business, reputation, results of operations,
    financial condition or liquidity.



