ITEM 1A. Risk Factors

Our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations, distributable cash flow and value of our securities. These risks include, among others:

General

Disruptions in the Global Capital and Credit Markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.

Global market and economic conditions have been challenging with tighter credit conditions and slower growth in most major economies
during the last few years. Although signs of recovery may exist, there are continued concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, a lagging real estate market and geopolitical issues that contribute to
increased market volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy. To the extent there is turmoil in the financial markets, it has the potential to materially affect the value of our properties and investments in our unconsolidated
investees, the availability or the terms of financing that we and our unconsolidated investees have or may anticipate utilizing, our ability and that of our unconsolidated investees to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance any
outstanding debt when due and may impact the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases.

The market volatility over the last several years has made the valuation of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees more difficult. There may be significant uncertainty in the valuation,
or in the stability of the value, of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees, that could result in a decrease in the value of our properties and those of our unconsolidated investees. As a result, we may not be able to recover the
current carrying amount of our investments in real estate properties, including our unconsolidated investees, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in earnings in addition to the charges we previously recognized.

Any additional, continued or recurring disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities.

As a global
company, we are subject to social, political and economic risks of doing business in many countries.

We conduct a significant portion
of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the United States. During 2011, we generated approximately 41.9% or $642 million of our revenue from operations outside the United States. Circumstances and developments related to
international operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors:



•difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain regions;



•differing employment practices and labor issues;



•local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices;



•volatility in currencies;



•currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States;



•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other laws;



•potentially adverse tax consequences;







•the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing;



•the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability;



•political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of
terrorist or gang activities (particularly with respect to our operations in Mexico);



•foreign ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; and



•access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations.

Our global growth (including growth in new regions in the United States) also subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding
increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and
similar laws.

Although we have committed substantial resources to expand our global platform, if we are unable to successfully manage the
risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.

In addition, our international operations and, specifically, the ability of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries, including transfers of cash to pay
interest and principal on our debt, may be affected by currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other things.

The depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.

We have pursued, and intend to continue to pursue, growth opportunities in international markets where the U.S. dollar is not the functional
currency. At December 31, 2011, approximately 43.5% or $12.1 billion of our total assets are invested in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the euro, Japanese yen and British pound sterling. As a result, we are subject to
foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may
have a material adverse effect on our financial position, debt covenant ratios and results of operations. Although we attempt to mitigate adverse effects by borrowing under debt agreements denominated in foreign currencies and, on occasion and when
deemed appropriate, using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that those attempts to mitigate foreign currency risk will be successful.

Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors.

Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition,
significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. Like other
companies qualifying as REITs under the Internal Revenue Code, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable REIT subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of
such property. While we may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment in order to generate liquidity, if we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain
from the sale, we may not pursue such sales.

In the event that we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations or
available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting ourselves of properties, whether or not they
otherwise meet our strategic objectives to keep in the long term, at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with our customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing
customers without an increase in rental rates at turnover. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. Additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely
affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities.

Risks Related to our Business

General economic conditions and other events or
occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results.

We are exposed to
general economic conditions, local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences that affect the markets in which we own properties. Our operating performance is further impacted by the economic
conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties.

As of December 31, 2011, approximately 23.0% of our
consolidated operating properties or $4.9 billion (based on investment before depreciation) are located in California, which represented 18.8% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 20.8% of our annualized base rent. Our
revenue from, and the value of, our properties located in California may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing,
industry







slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact California’s economic climate. Because of the number of properties we have located in California, a downturn in
California’s economy or real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities.

In addition to California, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total investment before depreciation) in operating
properties in certain global and regional markets located in Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, France, Japan, New Jersey/New York City, South Florida and the United Kingdom. Our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less
favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. Conditions such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. Any
material oversupply of distribution space or material reduction in demand for distribution space could adversely affect our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value of our securities.

In addition, our unconsolidated investees have concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in Central and
Eastern Pennsylvania, Germany, Mexico, Poland and Reno and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets.

A number of our properties
are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, and Seattle. International properties located in active seismic
areas include Japan and Mexico. We generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. We
evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis.
We have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for wholly owned assets in Japan based on this analysis.

Further, a number of our properties
are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane and/or flood risk. We carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and
deductibles if we believe it is commercially reasonable. We evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants.

Our insurance coverage does not include all potential losses.

We and our
unconsolidated investees currently carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood,
earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and
insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. We believe our properties and the properties of our unconsolidated investees are adequately insured. However, there are certain losses, including losses from
floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots, that are not generally insured against or that are not generally fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. If an uninsured loss or a loss
in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt
associated with the property.

Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with
sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if our insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us
in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt
or other financial obligations related to the properties. Any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security
holders and the market price of our securities.

Investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect
our business.

Investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. While we seek to minimize these risks
through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our property management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. Some of the factors that may affect real estate values include:



•local conditions, such as an oversupply of distribution space or a reduction in demand for distribution space in an area;



•the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers;



•competition from other available properties;



•increasing costs of rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and making improvements to our properties;



•our ability to provide adequate maintenance of, and insurance on, our properties;



•our ability to control rents and variable operating costs;







•governmental regulations, including zoning, usage and tax laws and changes in these laws; and



•potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning and other laws.

Our investments are concentrated in the industrial distribution sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that
sector.

Our investments in real estate assets are primarily concentrated in the industrial distribution sector. This concentration may
expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified.

Our operating results and distributable cash flow will depend on the continued generation of lease revenues from customers and we may be unable to
lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire.

If we decide to contribute or sell properties to an unconsolidated investee or third parties to
generate proceeds, we may not be successful.

We may contribute or sell properties to certain of our unconsolidated investees or third
parties on a case-by-case basis. Our ability to sell properties on advantageous terms is affected by competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; market conditions, including the capitalization rates
applicable to our properties; and other factors beyond our control. If our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets and/or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest
our assets at favorable pricing or on favorable terms or at all. The unconsolidated investee or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire
properties from us. Should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions could be delayed. If we are unable to generate proceeds through property sales we may have to delay our deleveraging plans, which may result
in adverse effects on our liquidity, distributable cash flow, debt covenant ratios, and the value of our securities.

We may acquire
properties, which involves risks that could adversely affect our operating results and the value of our securities.

We may acquire
industrial properties. The acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in
the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. When we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and
unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. Additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining
financing for acquisition activities.

Our real estate development strategies may not be successful.

Our real estate development strategy is focused on monetizing land in the future through sales to third parties, development of industrial properties to
hold for long-term investment or contribution or sale to an unconsolidated investee, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. We may expand investment in our development, renovation and redevelopment business and we
will complete the build-out and leasing of our development platform. We may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed development co-investment ventures. The real estate development, renovation and redevelopment
business involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities, which include
the following risks:



•we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all and complete construction on schedule or within budget,
resulting in increased debt service and construction costs and delays in leasing the properties and generating cash flow;



•we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits
and authorizations;



•we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our
investment, resulting in additional impairment charges;







•development opportunities that we explore may be abandoned and the related investment impaired;



•the properties may perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flow below budgeted amounts;



•we may not be able to lease properties on favorable terms or at all;



•construction costs, total investment amounts and our share of remaining funding may exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered
or stabilized as planned;



•we may not be able to attract third party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product;



•we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our redevelopment projects on expected timetables or at all;



•we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public opposition to our activities; and



•substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, typically require a significant amount of
management’s time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations.

We are exposed to
various environmental risks that may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our operating results and financial condition.

Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable
for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of,
or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and
clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination.

Environmental laws in some countries, including the United States, also
require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other
abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek
recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. Some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials.

In addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic
substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or
toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse
environmental conditions where we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. In connection with certain divested properties, we
have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties.

We cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. The presence of such substances on our real estate
properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral and may have an adverse effect on our distributable cash flow.

We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures,
attracting third party investment and investing in and managing properties through co-investment ventures.

As of December 31,
2011, we have an investment in approximately 277.8 million square feet held through unconsolidated investees. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in unconsolidated investees, and we may and
currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures,
attract third party investment or make additional investments in new or existing co-investment ventures, successfully develop or acquire properties through unconsolidated entities, or realize value from such unconsolidated entities. Our inability to
do so may have an adverse effect on our growth, our earnings and the market price of our securities.

Our partners in our unconsolidated
investments may share certain approval rights over major decisions and some partners may manage the properties in the unconsolidated investees. Our unconsolidated investments involve certain risks, including:



•if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital;







•our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our
ability to operate the property;



•the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability
to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms;



•our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in
such event, we may not continue to manage or invest in the assets underlying such relationships resulting in reduced fee revenue or causing a need to purchase such interest to continue ownership; and



•disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors
from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk.

We generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our unconsolidated investees to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or
more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders and the market price of our securities.

Contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition.

We have acquired and may in the future acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability
were asserted against us based upon ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or
properties acquired might include:



•liabilities for environmental conditions;



•losses in excess of our insured coverage;



•accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business;



•tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; and



•claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of our properties.

Risks Related to Financing and Capital

We face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business activities, including refinancing and interest rate risks, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely
affected if we are unable to make required payments on our debt or are unable to refinance our debt.

We are subject to risks normally
associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such
refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. If we are unable to
refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition would be adversely affected and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property
securing such indebtedness. Our Global Senior Credit Agreement, Yen-based credit agreement and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. In addition,
our unconsolidated investees may be unable to refinance indebtedness or meet payment obligations, which may impact our distributable cash flow and our financial condition and/or we may be required to recognize impairment charges of our investments.

Covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial
condition.

The terms of our various credit agreements, including our Global Senior Credit Agreement and Yen-based credit agreement,
the indentures under which our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios and other
operating covenants including maintaining insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. If we
default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flow and our financial condition could be adversely affected.

Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity.

The credit ratings of our senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall
financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect







the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the
event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative
consequences under our current and future credit facilities and debt instruments. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future
growth, our financial condition, the market price of our securities, and our development and acquisition activity.

We are dependent on
external sources of capital.

Federal Income Tax Risks

Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences.

If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on
taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost the qualification. If we
lost our REIT status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved.

Furthermore, we own a direct or indirect
interest in certain subsidiary REITs which elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a
qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary REIT will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as
a REIT, the subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable
corporation and its income would be subject to United States federal income tax. In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a REIT would have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus
our ability to qualify as a REIT.

Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on
gain attributable to the transaction.

From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by
contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. Under the Internal Revenue Code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income
from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. We do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. However, whether property is
held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or
contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. While we believe that the Internal Revenue Service







would not prevail in any such dispute, if the Internal Revenue Service were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition, or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction,
we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT.

Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us.

In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax taws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. Additional changes to tax
laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders.

Risks relating to the
Merger

The combined company may be unable to integrate its businesses successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and
related benefits of the Merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe.

On June 3, 2011, AMB and ProLogis completed the Merger.
The Merger involved a combination of two companies that previously operated as independent public companies, each of which operated its own private capital platform focused on the industrial real estate sector and served as the sponsor or manager
of, or in a similar capacity with respect to, numerous private equity investment vehicles.

The combined company is required to devote
significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of the constituent companies. Potential difficulties the combined company may encounter in the integration process include the following:



•the inability to successfully combine the businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result
from the Merger;



•the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel and systems from the two
companies;



•the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, cultures, regulatory restrictions, markets and customer bases;



•the failure to retain key employees of either of the two companies; and



•performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by completing the Merger.

For all these reasons, it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing
business or the diversion of our resources to the integration process as we attempt to complete the integration process, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions
and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities.

Other Risks

Risks Associated with our Dependence on Key Personnel.

We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. From time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. In connection with the completion of the Merger, there were changes
to our personnel and their roles. While we believe that we have retained our key talent and can find suitable employees to meet our personnel needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles, or the limitation of their availability could
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market price of our securities. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive
officers, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain key employees become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected.

Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other similar regulations could result in substantial costs.

Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled
persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act,
including removing access barriers, then our cash flow and the amounts available to make distributions and payments to our security holders may be adversely affected. Our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory
requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety requirements. We could incur fines or private damage awards if we fail to comply with these requirements. While we believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with these
regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow and results of operations.

We are subject to governmental regulations and actions that affect operating results and financial condition.

Many laws, including tax laws, and governmental regulations apply to us, our unconsolidated investees and our properties. Changes in these laws and
governmental regulations, or their interpretation by agencies or the courts, could occur, which might affect our ability to conduct business.







Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and
procedures or internal control over financial reporting.

The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial
reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial
reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the price of our securities, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business,
reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.

We are exposed to the potential impacts of future climate change
and climate change related risks.

We consider that we are exposed to potential physical risks from possible future changes in climate.
Our distribution facilities may be exposed to rare catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms and/or floods. If the frequency of extreme weather events increases due to climate change, our exposure to these events could increase.

We do not currently consider ourselves to be exposed to regulatory risks related to climate change, as our operations do not emit a significant amount of
greenhouse gases. However, we may be adversely impacted as a real estate developer in the future by potential impacts to the supply chain and/or stricter energy efficiency standards for buildings.

