10-K


h02158e10vk.htm

QUANTA SERVICES, INC.- DECEMBER 31, 2002

e10vk

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Quanta Services, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Delaware

74-2851603

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

1360 Post Oak Boulevard,
Suite 2100

Houston, Texas 77056

(Address of principal executive offices,
including ZIP Code)

(713) 629-7600

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities Registered Pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered Pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days:     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statement incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).     Yes

þ

No

o

As of March 14, 2003, the aggregate market
value of the Common Stock and Limited Vote Common Stock of the
Registrant held by non-affiliates of the Registrant, based on
the last sale price of the Common Stock on such date, was
approximately $210 million and $2.3 million,
respectively (for purposes of calculating these amounts, only
directors, officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the
outstanding capital stock of the Registrant have been deemed
affiliates).

As of March 14, 2003, the number of shares
of the Common Stock of the Registrant outstanding was
113,922,656. As of the same date, 1,082,250 shares of
Limited Vote Common Stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Form 10-K.

QUANTA SERVICES, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

For the Year Ended December 31,

INDEX

i

PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

General

Quanta is a leading provider of specialized
contracting services, offering end-to-end network solutions to
the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
industries. Our comprehensive services include designing,
installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure.
Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31,
2002 were $1.8 billion, of which 53% was attributable to
electric power and gas customers, 16% to telecommunications
customers, 12% to cable television operators and 19% to
ancillary services, such as inside electrical wiring,
intelligent traffic networks, cable and control systems for
light rail lines, airports and highways, and specialty rock
trenching, directional boring and road milling for industrial
and commercial customers. We were organized in the state of
Delaware in 1997 and since that time have made strategic
acquisitions to expand our geographic presence, generate
operating synergies with existing businesses and develop new
capabilities to meet our customers’ evolving needs.

We currently have offices nationwide, providing
us the presence and capability to quickly, reliably and
effectively complete projects throughout the United States. We
work for many of the leading companies in the industries we
serve.

Representative customers include:

•

Arizona Public Service

•

AT&T

•

CenterPoint Energy

•

Charter Communications

•

Entergy

•

Ericsson

•

Georgia Power

•

Illinois Power

•

Intermountain Rural Electric

•

Nevada Power

•

Pacific Gas & Electric

•

Puget Sound Energy

•

San Diego Gas & Electric

•

Southern California Edison

Our reputation for responsiveness, performance,
geographic reach and a comprehensive service offering has also
enabled us to develop strong strategic alliances with numerous
customers.

Industry Overview

We believe the following trends are impacting
demand for our services:

Decreased Demand for Telecommunications and
Cable Services.

During the last two
years, the telecommunications and cable television industries
suffered a severe downturn that has resulted in a number of
companies, including several of our customers, filing for
bankruptcy protection or experiencing financial difficulties.
The downturn has adversely affected capital expenditures for
infrastructure projects even among companies that are not
experiencing financial difficulties. Capital expenditures and
demand for our services by telecommunications and cable
television customers are expected to remain at low levels
throughout 2003 in comparison with prior years and additional
companies may file for bankruptcy protection or otherwise
experience severe financial difficulties in 2003.

Independent Investment in Electric Power
Networks.

Financial pressures on
electric utilities have, in many instances, reduced the level of
investment in network infrastructure, resulting in various
bottlenecks and overloaded transmission networks. Recent changes
in the regulatory environment have led to an increase in
electric power transmission system investment by independent
investors. This may spur the amount of transmission
infrastructure projects.

Increasing Need to Upgrade Electric Power
Transmission and Distribution
Networks.

We believe that the aging of
many electric power networks may require increased investment in
electric power transmission and distribution networks, and that
concerns about power quality and reliability will result in
increased investment in transmission and distribution
infrastructure. Additionally, as the selling of electricity
increases across regional networks, capacity and reliability
will become even more important.


Increased Outsourcing.

Financial and economic pressures on
electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
providers have caused an increased focus on core competencies
and an increase in outsourcing of network services. For
instance, total employment at investor owned utilities has
declined dramatically in the last decade due, in part, to
increased outsourcing. The movement from a regulated business
environment to an environment exposed to market forces has led
our customers to increase outsourcing of non-core activities,
particularly network development. Outsourcing network services
reduces costs, provides flexibility in budgets and improves
service and performance for many of our customers.

Increased Demand for Comprehensive End-to-End
Solutions.

We believe that electric
power, gas, telecommunications and cable television companies
will seek service providers who can rapidly and effectively
design, install and maintain their networks. The strategic and
financial value to these companies of geographically expanded
and technologically improved networks has caused them to seek
quick and reliable, yet cost effective, network solutions within
increasingly challenging scale, time and complexity constraints.
Accordingly, they are partnering with proven full-service
network providers with broad geographic reach, financial
capability and technical expertise.

Strategy

The key elements of our strategy are:

Focus on Expanding Operating Efficiencies.

We intend to:

Focus on Internal Growth and Integration.

We believe we can improve our internal
revenue growth by providing our customers comprehensive
end-to-end solutions for their infrastructure needs. Our
operating units cooperate to spread their best practices and
innovative technology and also share equipment and human
resources, which positions each operating unit to deepen its
relationship with current customers and develop relationships
with new customers. To meet the demands of the current economic
environment, we are consolidating our operating units where
appropriate to eliminate redundancies and increase efficiencies.

Expand Portfolio of Services to Meet
Customers’ Evolving Needs.

We
offer an expanding portfolio of services that allows us to
develop, build and maintain networks on both a regional and
national scale and adapt to our customers’ changing needs.
We intend to expand further our geographic and technological
capabilities through both internal development and innovation
and through selective acquisitions.

Services

We design, install and maintain networks for the
electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
industries as well as commercial, industrial and governmental
entities. The following provides an overview of the types of
services we provide:

Electric Power and Gas Network Services.

We provide a variety of end-to-end
services to the electric power and gas industries, including:

•

installation, repair and maintenance of electric
    transmission lines ranging in capacity from 69,000 volts to
    760,000 volts;

•

installation, repair and maintenance of electric
    power distribution networks;


Telecommunications Network Services.

Our telecommunications network
services include:

Cable Television Network Services.

The network services we provide to the
cable television industry include:

Ancillary Services.

We provide a variety of comprehensive
ancillary services to commercial, industrial and governmental
entities, including:

•

design, installation, maintenance and repair of
    electrical components, fiber optic cabling and building control
    and automation systems;

•

installation of intelligent traffic networks such
    as traffic signals, controllers, connecting signals, variable
    message signs, closed circuit television and other monitoring
    devices for governments;


•

installation of cable and control systems for
    light rail lines, airports and highways; and

•

provision of specialty rock trenching,
    directional boring and road milling for industrial and
    commercial customers.

We derived $8.5 million of our revenues from
foreign operations during 2002. For additional discussion
concerning the revenues derived from the services we provide,
see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred
Provider Relationships

Our customers include electric power, gas,
telecommunications and cable television companies, as well as
commercial, industrial and governmental entities. Our 10 largest
customers accounted for 31.3% of our consolidated revenues in
2002. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our
consolidated revenues for the year ended 2002.

Although we have a centralized marketing
strategy, management at each of our operating units is
responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term
relationships with customers. Our management is incented to
cross-sell additional services of other operating units to their
customers. In addition, our business development group promotes
and markets our services for prospective large national accounts
and projects that require services from multiple business units.
Many of our customers and prospective customers have
qualification procedures for approved bidders or vendors based
upon the satisfaction of particular performance and safety
standards set by the customer. These customers typically
maintain a list of vendors meeting these standards and award
contracts for individual jobs only to those vendors. We strive
to maintain our status as a preferred or qualified vendor to
these customers.

We believe that our strategic relationships with
large providers of electric power and telecommunications
services will offer opportunities for future growth. Many of
these strategic relationships take the form of a strategic
alliance or long-term maintenance agreement. Strategic alliances
are typically agreements for periods of approximately two to
four years that may include an option to add a one to two year
extension at the end of a contract. Many of the strategic
alliance agreements we have secured are “evergreen”
contracts with exclusivity clauses providing that we will be
awarded all contracts, or a right of first refusal, for a
certain type of work or in a certain geographic region. None of
these contracts, however, guarantees a specific dollar amount of
work to be performed by us. Strategic alliance agreements
typically indicate an intention to work


together and many provide us with preferential
bidding procedures. Certain of our strategic alliances and
long-term maintenance relationships are listed in the following
table:

Backlog

Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we
expect to realize from work to be performed over the next twelve
months on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual
agreements on which work has not begun. Our backlog at
December 31, 2001 and 2002 was approximately
$1.1 billion and $980 million, respectively. The
decline in backlog was primarily related to financial and
economic pressures impacting our customers which have
contributed to the delay and cancellation of projects and
reduction of capital spending. In many instances, our customers
are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services
under our long-term maintenance contracts and many of our
contracts may be terminated with notice. There can be no
assurance as to our customer’s requirements or that our
estimates are accurate.

Competition

The markets in which we operate are highly
competitive, requiring substantial resources and skilled and
experienced personnel. We compete with other independent
contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we
operate, and several of our competitors are large domestic
companies that may have greater financial, technical and
marketing resources than we do. In addition, there are
relatively few barriers to entry into the industries in which we
operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate
financial resources and access to technical expertise may become
a competitor. A significant portion of our revenues is currently
derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is
often an important factor in the award of such agreements.
Accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an
effort by them to procure such business. We believe that as
demand for our services increases, customers will increasingly
consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including
technical expertise and experience, financial and operational
resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and
dependability, which we expect to benefit contractors such as
us. There can be no assurance, however, that our competitors
will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to
provide services that are superior in both price and quality to
our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our
competitive position. We may also face competition from the
in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective
customers, including electric power, gas, telecommunications and
cable television companies, which employ personnel who perform
some of the same types of


services as those provided by us. Although a
significant portion of these services is currently outsourced,
there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective
customers will continue to outsource services in the future.

Employees

As of December 31, 2002, we had 1,798
salaried employees, including executive officers, project
managers or engineers, job superintendents, staff and clerical
personnel and 9,945 hourly employees, the number of which
fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects
undertaken by us at any particular time. Approximately 39% of
our employees at December 31, 2002, were covered by
collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW). Under
our agreements with our unions, we agree to pay specified wages
to our union employees, observe certain workplace rules and make
employee benefit payments to multi-employer pension plans and
employee benefit trusts rather than administering the funds on
behalf of these employees. These collective bargaining
agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. The majority
of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that
prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified
negotiation periods relating to agreement renewal, and provide
for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of
prolonged disagreement.

We provide a health, welfare and benefit plan for
employees who are not covered by collective bargaining
agreements. We have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible
employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a
collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a
payroll deduction. We make matching cash contributions of 100%
of each employee’s contribution up to 3% of that
employee’s salary and 50% of each employee’s
contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee’s salary,
up to the maximum amount permitted by law. We also have an
employee stock purchase plan that provides that eligible
employees may contribute up to 10% of their cash compensation,
up to $21,250 annually, toward the semi-annual purchase of our
common stock at a discounted price. Over 1,000 of our employees
participated in the employee stock purchase plan during the year
ended December 31, 2002.

Our industry is experiencing a shortage of
journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. In response to
the shortage, we seek to take advantage of various IBEW and
National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) referral
programs and hire graduates from the joint IBEW/ NECA
apprenticeship program that trains qualified electrical workers.

We believe our relationships with our employees
and union representatives are good.

Training, Quality Assurance and
Safety

Performance of our services requires the use of
equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous.
Although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and
prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to
claims by employees, customers and third parties for property
damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our
services. Our policies require that employees complete the
prescribed training and service program of the operating unit
for which they work in addition to those required, if
applicable, by NECA and the IBEW prior to performing more
sophisticated and technical jobs. For example, all journeyman
linemen are required by the IBEW and NECA to complete a minimum
of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately
200 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and
certification. Each operating unit requires additional training,
depending upon the sophistication and technical requirements of
each particular job. We have established company-wide training
and educational programs, as well as comprehensive safety
policies and regulations, by sharing “best practices”
throughout our operations.

Regulation

Our operations are subject to various federal,
state and local laws and regulations including:

•

licensing requirements applicable to electricians
    and engineers;

•

building and electrical codes;


•

permitting and inspection requirements applicable
    to construction projects;

•

regulations relating to worker safety and
    environmental protection; and

•

special bidding and procurement requirements on
    government projects.

We believe that we have all the licenses required
to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial
compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure
to comply with applicable regulations could result in
substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses. Many
state and local regulations governing electrical construction
require permits and licenses to be held by individuals who have
passed an examination or met other requirements.

Risk Management, Insurance and Performance
Bonds

The primary risks in our operations are bodily
injury and property damage. We have agreements to insure us for
workers’ compensation, employer’s liability, auto
liability and general liability, subject to a deductible of
$1,000,000 per occurrence. On March 1, 2003, we
increased the deductible for workers’ compensation
insurance to $2,000,000 per occurrence. Effective
January 1, 2002, we consolidated the various non-union
employee related health care benefit plans that existed at
certain of our subsidiaries into one corporate plan that is
subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year.
Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our
estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an
estimate of claims incurred but not reported. The accruals are
based upon known facts and historical trends and management
believes such accruals to be adequate.

Contracts in the industries we serve may require
performance bonds or other means of financial assurance to
secure contractual performance. During 2002, the market for
performance bonds tightened significantly. If we were unable to
obtain surety bonds or letters of credit in sufficient amounts
or at acceptable rates, we might be precluded from entering into
additional contracts with certain of our customers.

Website Access

Our website address is www.quantaservices.com.
You may obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports in
our Investor Center under the heading “SEC Filings.”
These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file them with the SEC.

Risk Factors

Our business is subject to a variety of risks,
including the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones facing our company.
Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we
currently deem immaterial may also impair our business
operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our
business, financial condition and results of operations could be
harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. This Annual
Report also includes statements reflecting assumptions,
expectations, projections, intentions, or beliefs about future
events that are intended as “forward-looking
statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section
entitled

“Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and
Information.”

A Continued Economic Downturn May Lead to Less
Demand for Our Services.

If the
general level of economic activity continues to slow, our
customers may delay or cancel new projects. The
telecommunications and utility markets have experienced
substantial change during 2002 as evidenced by an increased
number of bankruptcies in the telecommunications market,
continued devaluation of several of our utility clients’
debt and equity securities and pricing pressures resulting from
challenges faced by major industry participants. These factors
have contributed to the delay and cancellation of projects and
reduction of capital spending that have impacted our operations
and ability to grow at historical levels. A number of other
factors, including financing conditions for and potential
bankruptcies in the industries we serve, could adversely affect
our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital
expenditures in the future or pay for past services.


We May Not Have Access In The Future to
Sufficient Funding to Finance Desired
Growth.

If we cannot secure additional
financing in the future on acceptable terms, we may be unable to
support our growth strategy. We cannot readily predict the
ability of certain customers to pay for past services or the
timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts and
therefore the capital we will need for these efforts. Using cash
for acquisitions limits our financial flexibility and makes us
more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or
equity financings. Our credit facility contains an aggregate
dollar limit on the level of cash consideration that we can use
for acquisitions. Our existing debt agreements contain
significant restrictions on our operational and financial
flexibility, including our ability to obtain additional debt,
and if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional
covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility.
When we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be
certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us
at all or on terms acceptable to us.

Our Operating Results May Vary Significantly
From Quarter-to-Quarter.

We experience
lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to
lower demand for our services and more difficult operating
conditions. Additionally, our quarterly results may also be
materially affected by:

Accordingly, our operating results in any
particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you
can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year.

Our Dependence Upon Fixed Price Contracts
Could Adversely Affect Our Business.

We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a
portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. We must
estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for
such fixed price contracts. The cost of labor and materials,
however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These
variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed
price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for
a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could
result in reduced profitability and losses on projects.
Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from
the estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on
our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year.

Our Results of Operations Could Be Adversely
Affected as a Result of Goodwill
Impairments.

When we acquire a
business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal
to the excess amount we pay for the business, including
liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible assets
of the business we acquire. Through December 31, 2001,
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we
amortized this goodwill over its estimated useful life of
40 years following the acquisition, which directly impacted
our earnings. As stated in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements under Goodwill and Other Intangibles, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 142 which provides that goodwill and other
intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be
amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for
impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives


should continue to be amortized over their useful
lives. SFAS No. 142 also provides specific guidance
for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets
for impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires management to
make certain estimates and assumptions in order to allocate
goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of
reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among
other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash
flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which
could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and
other intangible assets. SFAS No. 142 requires, in
lieu of amortization, an initial impairment review of goodwill
in 2002 and annual impairment tests thereafter.

Based on our transitional impairment test
performed upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, we recognized
a $488.5 million non-cash charge, ($445.4 million, net
of tax) to reduce the carrying value of goodwill to the implied
fair value of our reporting units. Under SFAS No. 142,
the impairment adjustment recognized at adoption of the new
rules was reflected as a cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle, net of tax, in the year ended
December 31, 2002.

We further recognized an interim non-cash
goodwill impairment charge of $166.6 million during the
year ended December 31, 2002. Impairment adjustments
recognized after adoption are required to be recognized as
operating expenses. The primary factor contributing to the
interim impairment charge was the overall deterioration of the
business climate during 2002 in the markets we serve as
evidenced by an increased number of bankruptcies in the
telecommunications industry, continued devaluation of several of
our customers’ debt and equity securities and pricing
pressures resulting from challenges faced by major industry
participants. Fair value was determined using a combination of
the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market
capitalization valuation approaches. On an ongoing basis (absent
any impairment indicators), we expect to perform impairment
tests annually during the fourth quarter. Future impairments, if
any, will be recognized as operating expenses.

Many of Our Contracts May Be Canceled On Short
Notice and We May Be Unsuccessful In Replacing Our Contracts as
They Are Completed or Expire.

We could
experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity
if any of the following occur:

•

our customers cancel a significant number of
    contracts;

•

we fail to win a significant number of our
    existing contracts upon re-bid; or

•

we complete the required work under a significant
    number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with
    similar projects.

Many of our customers may cancel our contracts
with them on short notice, typically 30-90 days, even if we
are not in default under the contract. Certain of our customers
assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master
service agreements. Under these agreements, our customers often
have no obligation to assign work to us. Our operations could
decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not
assigned to us. Many of our contracts, including our master
service contracts, are opened to public bid at the expiration of
their terms. There can be no assurance that we will be the
successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for bid.

The Industries We Serve Are Subject to Rapid
Technological and Structural Changes That Could Reduce the
Demand for the Services We Provide.

The electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of
technological advances that could in certain cases reduce the
demand for our services or otherwise negatively impact our
business. New or developing technologies could displace the
wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions,
and improvements in existing technology may allow
telecommunications and cable television companies to
significantly improve their networks without physically
upgrading them. In addition, consolidation, competition or
capital constraints in the electric power, gas,
telecommunications or cable television industries may result in
reduced spending or the loss of one or more of our customers.

Our Industry Is Highly Competitive.

Our industry is served by numerous
small, owner-operated private companies, a few public companies
and several large regional companies. In addition, relatively
few barriers


prevent entry into our industry. As a result, any
organization that has adequate financial resources and access to
technical expertise may become one of our competitors.
Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors,
including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower
overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide
their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. In
addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources
than we do. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not
develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide
services that are superior in both price and quality to our
services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able
to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our
industry or maintain a customer base at current levels. We may
also face competition from the in-house service organizations of
our existing or prospective customers. Electric power, gas,
telecommunications and cable television service providers
usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of
services we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or
prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the
future.

We May Be Unsuccessful at Generating Internal
Growth.

Our ability to generate
internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our
ability to:

In addition, our customers may reduce the number
or size of projects available to us due to their inability to
obtain capital or pay for services provided. Many of the factors
affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond
our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will
be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow
sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal
growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve
internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business.

Our Business Growth Could Outpace the
Capability of Our Corporate Management
Infrastructure.

We cannot be certain
that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our
operations as they expand. Future growth also could impose
significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior
management, including the need to recruit and integrate new
senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that
we can recruit and retain such additional managers and
executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our
growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain
additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand
our operations or execute our business plan.

The Departure of Key Personnel Could Disrupt
Our Business.

We depend on the
continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior
management of the businesses we acquire. Although we have
entered into an employment agreement with each of our executive
officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain
that any individual will continue in such capacity for any
particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the
inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could
negatively impact our ability to manage our business. We do not
carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees.

Our Unionized Workforce Could Adversely Affect
Our Operations and Acquisition
Strategy.

As of December 31,
2002, approximately 39% of our employees were covered by
collective bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these
agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be
certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the
future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our
relationship with our customers and could cause us to lose
business and decrease our revenue. In addition, our selective
acquisition strategies could be adversely affected because of
our union status for a variety of reasons. For instance, our
union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements
of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not
want to become affiliated with a union based company.


Our Business Is Labor Intensive and We May Be
Unable to Attract and Retain Qualified
Employees.

Our ability to maintain our
productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to
employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our
requirements. We, like many of our competitors, are currently
experiencing shortages of qualified journeyman linemen. We
cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate
skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to
support our growth strategy or that our labor expenses will not
increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these
skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs
could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our
revenues.

We Could Have Potential Exposure to
Environmental Liabilities.

Our
operations are subject to various environmental laws and
regulations, including those dealing with the handling and
disposal of waste products, PCBs, fuel storage and air quality.
As a result of past and future operations at our facilities, we
may be required to incur environmental remediation costs and
other cleanup expenses. In addition, we cannot be certain that
we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential
environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business,
property or assets.

We May Be Unsuccessful at Integrating
Companies That We Acquire.

We cannot
be sure that we can successfully integrate our acquired
companies with our existing operations without substantial
costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. If we
do not implement proper overall business controls, our
decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent
operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire
and our overall profitability could be adversely affected.
Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special
risks which could have a negative impact on our business,
financial condition and results of operations, including:

If one of our acquired companies or operating
units suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems,
the reputation of our entire company could suffer.

Certain Provisions of Our Corporate Governing
Documents Could Make an Acquisition of Our Company More
Difficult.

The following provisions of
our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in
effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law,
could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or
prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that
investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our
common stock:


These circumstances could discourage potential
proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of
us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in
the future for shares of our common stock.

ITEM 2.

Properties

Facilities

We lease our corporate headquarters in Houston,
Texas and maintain offices nationwide. This space is used for
offices, equipment yards, warehousing, storage and vehicle
shops. We own 30 of the facilities we occupy, of which 26 are
encumbered by our credit facility, and we lease the rest. We
believe that our facilities are sufficient for our current needs.

Equipment

We operate a fleet of owned and leased trucks and
trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment,
such as backhoes, excavators, trenchers, generators, boring
machines, cranes, wire pullers and tensioners. As of
December 31, 2002, the total size of the rolling-stock
fleet was approximately 17,700 units. Most of this fleet is
serviced by our own mechanics who work at various maintenance
sites and facilities. We believe that these vehicles generally
are well maintained and adequate for our present operations. We
believe that we will be able to continue to lease or purchase
this equipment at lower prices due to our larger size and the
volume of our leasing and purchasing activity.

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

On November 28, 2001, Aquila, Inc. (Aquila)
filed an arbitration demand against us challenging our amendment
to our stockholder rights plan. This lawsuit was dismissed with
prejudice on May 21, 2002, as part of the settlement of
Aquila’s proxy contest to replace members of our board of
directors with a slate of its own nominees.

On November 28, 2001, Aquila also filed a
complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery that challenged the
adoption of our rights plan amendment. As part of the settlement
of Aquila’s proxy contest, this lawsuit was dismissed with
prejudice on May 31, 2002.

On December 21, 2001, a purported
stockholder of Quanta filed a putative class action and
derivative complaint alleging that the named directors breached
their fiduciary duties by taking certain actions, including
adoption of the rights plan amendment, in response to the
announcement by Aquila that it intended to acquire control of
Quanta through open market purchases of our shares. On
October 31, 2002, the case was dismissed at the request of
the plaintiffs.

On March 21, 2002, Aquila filed a complaint
in the Delaware Court of Chancery alleging that the Special
Committee of our board of directors breached its fiduciary duty
in connection with the adoption of our Stock Employee
Compensation Trust (SECT) and new employment agreements entered
into with certain of our employees. As part of the settlement of
Aquila’s proxy contest, this lawsuit was dismissed with
prejudice on May 30, 2002.

In addition, we are from time to time a party to
various other lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that
arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions
typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged
personal injury, breach of contract, property damage, punitive
damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or
declaratory relief. With respect to such lawsuits, claims, and
proceedings, we accrue reserves when it is probable a liability
has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably
estimated. We do not believe that any of these other
proceedings, separately or in the aggregate would be expected to
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or
financial position.

ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

On December 27, 2002, we held a special
meeting of stockholders in Houston, Texas. At the meeting, the
holders of common stock, Limited Vote Common Stock and
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, voting


together, approved (1) the convertibility of
Series E Preferred Stock into common stock and the issuance
of up to 24,307,410 shares of common stock (subject to
adjustment) upon the conversion of the Series E Preferred
Stock by a vote of 63,795,500 votes cast for the proposal,
685,084 against and 255,115 abstentions and (2) amendments
to the Certificate of Designation, Rights and Limitations of the
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to (a) delete the
requirement that the authorized number of directors on our board
of directors be set at ten members and (b) eliminate the
ability of the holders of the Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock to vote, separately as a class, on any increase
in the authorized number of directors on our board of directors
beyond ten members by a vote of 63,809,959 votes cast for
the proposal, 812,845 against and 112,895 abstentions.
In addition, the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred
Stock, voting as a separate class, voted to approve proposal 2
above by a vote of 3,444,961 votes cast for the proposal,
with no shares voted against or abstaining.

No other matters were submitted to a vote of the
stockholders during the fourth quarter ended December 31,
2002.


PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Stock
    and Related Stockholder Matters

We initially offered our common stock to the
public on February 12, 1998, at a price of $6.00 per
share. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) under the symbol “PWR.” The following
table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common
stock per quarter, as reported by the NYSE, for the two most
recent fiscal years.

On March 14, 2003, there were 1,104 holders
of record of our common stock, 25 holders of record of our
Limited Vote Common Stock and no holders of record of our
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. There is no
established trading market for the Limited Vote Common Stock;
however, the Limited Vote Common Stock converts into common
stock immediately upon sale.

Dividends and Preferred Stock
Conversion

Our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock
accrues a dividend at a rate of 0.5% per annum on a stated
amount per share equal to $53.99 per share. Dividends on
the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock accumulate until
paid and must be paid in full prior to the issuance of any
common stock dividend. In addition, the Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock has no liquidation preference. As of
December 31, 2001 and 2002, dividends of $2.1 million
had been accrued on the Series A Convertible Preferred
Stock. In connection with their investment in us, on
October 15, 2002, First Reserve Fund IX, L.P. (First
Reserve) forgave approximately $780,000 in dividends that had
accrued on 939,380 shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock that First Reserve acquired from Aquila. On
December 2, 2002, December 23, 2002, and
January 9, 2003, 238,000 shares, 7,000 shares and
939,380 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred
Stock, respectively, were converted into shares of common stock
and on February 27, 2003, all remaining outstanding shares
of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were converted into
shares of common stock. There are currently no outstanding
shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Any
dividends that had accrued on the respective shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were reversed on the
date of conversion. Therefore, as of February 27, 2003,
there were no accrued dividends.

We currently intend to retain our future
earnings, if any, to finance the growth, development and
expansion of our business. Accordingly, we do not currently
intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock
in the immediate future. The declaration, payment and amount of
future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our
board of directors after taking into account various factors.
These factors include our financial condition, results of
operations, cash flows from operations, current and anticipated
capital requirements and expansion plans, the income tax laws
then in effect and the requirements of Delaware law. In
addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility and
convertible subordinated notes include prohibitions on the
payment of cash dividends without the consent of the respective
lenders.


Recent Sales of Unregistered
Securities

On October 15, 2002, First Reserve
committed, subject to certain conditions, to make an investment
in us through two privately negotiated transactions and not
pursuant to public solicitation. We relied on Section 4(2)
of the Securities Act of 1933 as the basis for exemption from
registration. For all issuances, First Reserve was an
“accredited investor” as defined in Rule 501
promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act. The first
transaction occurred on October 15, 2002, with First
Reserve purchasing from us approximately 8.7 million shares
of newly issued common stock at $3.00 per share, for a
total purchase price of $26.0 million, before transaction
costs. After amending certain provisions of our agreements with
lenders and senior secured note holders, the second transaction
occurred on December 20, 2002, with First Reserve
purchasing from us approximately 2.4 million shares of
newly issued Series E Preferred Stock at $30.00 per
share, for an additional investment of approximately
$72.9 million. At a special meeting of stockholders held on
December 27, 2002, our stockholders approved the
convertibility of the Series E Preferred Stock and the
conversion of the shares into common stock. The shares of
Series E Preferred Stock were converted into approximately
24.3 million shares of common stock on December 31,
2002.

In connection with the First Reserve transaction,
First Reserve obtained the right to designate three directors to
our board of directors. As of March 14, 2003, First Reserve
had designated all three directors to our board of directors. At
the special meeting of stockholders held on December 27,
2002, our stockholders approved an increase of our board of
directors to twelve members.


ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data

For financial statement presentation purposes, in
connection with the combination of the founding companies
concurrent with our initial public offering, PAR Electrical
Contractors, Inc. was identified as the “accounting
acquiror.” Between our initial public offering in February
1998 and December 31, 2002, we acquired 88 specialty
contracting businesses. Of these, 86 were accounted for using
the purchase method of accounting and two were accounted for
using the pooling-of-interests method of accounting. Through the
date of our initial public offering, Quanta’s consolidated
historical financial statements represent the financial position
and results of operations of PAR as restated to include the
financial position and results of operations of companies
acquired in pooling transactions. The remaining businesses we
acquired are reflected in the financial statements beginning on
their respective dates of acquisition. All per share amounts
have been adjusted to give effect to a 3-for-2 stock split, paid
as a stock dividend on April 7, 2000.

(a)

In December 2000, we agreed to conclude our
    obligations under our management services agreement with Aquila
    in exchange for a one-time payment to Aquila of approximately
    $28.6 million. In June 1999,


The consolidated financial statements for the
years ended December 31, 1998 through 2001, were audited by
Arthur Andersen LLP (Andersen), who has ceased operations. A
copy of the report previously issued by Andersen on our
financial statements as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and
for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2001, is included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K. Such report has not been reissued by Andersen.


ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in
conjunction with Item 6. Selected Financial Data and our
Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto
included in Item 8.

Introduction

We derive our revenues from one reportable
segment by providing specialized contracting services and
offering comprehensive network solutions. Our customers include
electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental
entities. We had consolidated revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2002 of $1.8 billion, of which 53% was
attributable to electric power and gas customers, 16% to
telecommunications customers, 12% to cable television operators
and 19% to ancillary services, such as inside electrical wiring,
intelligent traffic networks, cable and control systems for
light rail lines, airports and highways, and specialty rock
trenching, directional boring and road milling for industrial
and commercial customers.

We enter into contracts principally on the basis
of competitive unit price or fixed price bids, the final terms
and prices of which we frequently negotiate with the customer.
Although the terms of our contracts vary considerably, most are
made on either a unit price or fixed price basis in which we
agree to do the work for a price per unit of work performed
(unit price) or for a fixed amount for the entire project (fixed
price). We also perform services on a cost-plus or time and
materials basis. We complete most installation projects within
one year, while we frequently provide maintenance and repair
work under open-ended, unit price or cost-plus master service
agreements that are renewable annually. We generally recognize
revenue when services are performed except when work is being
performed under fixed price contracts. We typically record
revenues from fixed price contracts on a
percentage-of-completion basis, using the cost-to-cost method
based on the percentage of total costs incurred to date in
proportion to total estimated costs to complete the contract.
Some of our customers require us to post performance and payment
bonds upon execution of the contract, depending upon the nature
of the work to be performed. Our fixed price contracts often
include payment provisions pursuant to which the customer
withholds a 5% to 10% retainage from each progress payment and
remits the retainage to us upon completion and approval of the
work.

Cost of services consists primarily of salaries,
wages and benefits to employees, depreciation, fuel and other
vehicle expenses, equipment rentals, subcontracted services,
insurance, facilities expenses, materials and parts and
supplies. Our gross margin, which is gross profit expressed as a
percentage of revenues, is typically higher on projects where
labor, rather than materials, constitutes a greater portion of
the cost of services. We can predict materials costs more
accurately than labor costs. Therefore, to compensate for the
potential variability of labor costs, we seek higher margins on
labor-intensive projects. We have a deductible of
$1,000,000 per occurrence related to workers’
compensation, employer’s liability, automobile and general
liability claims. On March 1, 2003, we increased the
deductible for workers’ compensation insurance to
$2,000,000 per occurrence. Effective January 1, 2002,
we consolidated the various non-union employee related health
care benefits plans that existed at certain of our subsidiaries
into one corporate plan that is subject to a deductible of
$250,000 per claimant per year. Fluctuations in insurance
accruals related to these deductibles could have an impact on
operating margins in the period in which such adjustments are
made.

Selling, general and administrative expenses
consist primarily of compensation and related benefits to
management, administrative salaries and benefits, marketing,
office rent and utilities, communications, professional fees and
bad debt expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses
can be impacted by our customers’ inability to pay for
services performed.

Seasonality; Fluctuations of Quarterly
Results

Our results of operations can be subject to
seasonal variations. During the winter months, demand for new
projects and new maintenance service arrangements may be lower
due to reduced construction activity. However, demand for repair
and maintenance services attributable to damage caused by
inclement weather during the winter months may partially offset
the loss of revenues from lower demand for new projects and new
maintenance service arrangements. Additionally, our industry can
be highly cyclical. As a result, our


volume of business may be adversely affected by
declines in new projects in various geographic regions in the
U.S. Typically, we experience lower gross and operating
margins during the winter months due to lower demand for our
services and more difficult operating conditions. The financial
condition of our customers and their access to capital,
variations in the margins of projects performed during any
particular quarter, the timing and magnitude of acquisition
assimilation costs, regional economic conditions and timing of
acquisitions may also materially affect quarterly results.
Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may
not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any
other quarter or for the entire year.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of December 31, 2002, we had cash and
cash equivalents of $27.9 million, working capital of
$317.4 million and long-term debt of $213.2 million,
net of current maturities. Our long-term debt balance at that
date included borrowings of $210.0 million of senior
secured notes, and $3.2 million of other debt. We had
$172.5 million of convertible subordinated notes as of
December 31, 2002. In addition, we had $71.1 million
of letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility.

During the year ended December 31, 2002,
operating activities provided net cash to us of
$121.5 million. Operating cash flow before changes in
working capital and other operating accounts totaled
$93.1 million. Net changes in working capital and other
operating accounts generated $28.4 million of cash flow
from operations, in 2002, primarily as a result of
management’s focus on working capital and a general
business slowdown. Cash flow from operations is primarily
influenced by demand for our services, operating margins and the
type of services we provide. We used net cash in investing
activities of $70.1 million, including $49.5 million
used for capital expenditures, $8.0 million used for the
purchase of two businesses, net of cash acquired, and
$17.3 million in additional non-current notes receivable
issued during 2002. We used net cash in financing activities of
$29.8 million, resulting primarily from $109.3 million
in net repayments of our credit facility, $10.8 million in
payments of other long-term debt obligations and
$11.7 million used for the purchase of treasury stock,
partially offset by $102.1 million in proceeds from the
issuance of stock before transaction costs.

On August 12, 2002 and December 20,
2002, we amended our credit facility. As a result of both
amendments, the commitment of the banks under the credit
facility was reduced from $350.0 million to
$250.0 million. The commitment will remain in effect at
$250.0 million through March 31, 2003, then reduce to
$225.0 million and remain in effect at such amount through
December 31, 2003. Effective January 1, 2004, the
credit facility will reduce to $200.0 million and remain in
effect at such amount through maturity of the credit facility on
June 14, 2004. Further, the amendment restricts our ability
to borrow an additional $25.0 million under the credit
facility until we achieve, for two consecutive fiscal quarters
beginning with the fourth quarter of 2002, certain minimum
EBITDA (as defined in the credit facility) requirements. Amounts
borrowed under the credit facility bear interest at a rate equal
to either (a) LIBOR plus 1.50% to 3.50%, as determined by
the ratio of our total funded debt to EBITDA or (b) the
bank’s prime rate plus up to 2.00%, as determined by the
ratio of our total funded debt to EBITDA. Commitment fees of
0.375% to 0.50%, based on our total funded debt to EBITDA, are
due on any unused borrowing capacity under the credit facility.
Our weighted average borrowing rate under the credit facility
for the year ended December 31, 2002 was 4.88%. The amended
credit facility is less restrictive with respect to certain
financial ratios and indebtedness covenants, including the
maximum funded debt to EBITDA ratio, minimum interest coverage
ratios and non-cash impairment charges under
SFAS Nos. 142 and 144. However, the amended credit
facility is more restrictive with respect to our maximum senior
debt to EBITDA ratio, capital expenditures and asset sales,
prohibits any stock repurchase programs, and prohibits
acquisitions through May 15, 2003. Additionally, the
amended credit facility prohibits the payment of dividends and
requires a mandatory reduction in the banks’ commitment by
a portion of the proceeds from asset sales in excess of
$5.0 million annually or upon the issuance of additional
debt in excess of $15.0 million. Our borrowing availability
under the credit facility varies from quarter to quarter
depending upon our degree of compliance with certain financial
ratios. As of March 14, 2003, we had approximately
$50 million in cash and cash equivalents, no borrowings
under the credit facility and $77.0 million of letters of
credit outstanding, which based upon our current senior debt to
EBITDA ratio, results in a borrowing availability of
$77.4 million under the credit facility. Our current
borrowing rate is LIBOR plus 3.50%.


As of December 31, 2002, we had
$210.0 million of senior secured notes that have maturities
ranging from three to eight years with a weighted average
interest rate of 9.91%. On August 12, 2002 and
December 20, 2002, we amended the senior secured notes, and
as amended, they have financial covenants and restrictions
substantially identical to those under the credit facility. In
addition, the senior secured notes carry a make-whole provision
customary for this type of debt instrument on prepayment of
principal, including, any mandatory prepayments. Pursuant to an
intercreditor agreement, the senior secured notes rank equally
in right of repayment with indebtedness under our credit
facility.

In connection with amendments to both the credit
facility and the senior secured notes in 2002, we incurred
additional debt issuance costs of approximately
$6.2 million. We have accounted for these costs in
accordance with EITF 98-14 for the credit facility and
EITF 96-19 for the senior secured notes. Accordingly, a
majority of these costs were capitalized and will be amortized
over the remaining term of the respective agreement, as amended.
As a result of the amendments, in accordance with
EITF 98-14, we expensed a portion of the unamortized debt
issuance costs as interest expense during the year ended
December 31, 2002.

As of December 31, 2002, we had
$172.5 million in convertible subordinated notes that bear
interest at 4.0% per year and are convertible into shares
of our common stock at a price of $54.53 per share, subject
to adjustment as a result of certain events. The convertible
subordinated notes require semi-annual interest payments until
the notes mature on July 1, 2007. We have the option to
redeem some or all of the convertible subordinated notes
beginning July 3, 2003 at specified redemption prices,
together with accrued and unpaid interest. If certain
fundamental changes occur, as described in the indenture under
which we issued the convertible subordinated notes, holders of
the convertible subordinated notes may require us to purchase
all or part of their notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of
the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In the
event of such circumstance, consent to repurchase the
convertible subordinated notes would be required under our
credit facility and senior secured notes.

We have specifically provided for non-cash
goodwill impairment charges up to $850 million in our
credit facility and senior secured notes resulting from the
adoption of SFAS Nos. 142 and 144. Goodwill impairment
charges do not violate any covenants in our convertible
subordinated notes.

On October 15, 2002, First Reserve
committed, subject to certain conditions, to make an investment
in us through two transactions. The first transaction occurred
on October 15, 2002, with First Reserve purchasing from us
approximately 8.7 million shares of our newly issued common
stock at $3.00 per share, for a total purchase price of
$26.0 million, before transaction costs. As part of this
transaction and in exchange for consideration from us of
approximately $2.7 million, we also obtained from Aquila
certain waivers of anti-dilution rights, preemptive rights and
limitations of the number of directors on our board of directors.

After amending certain provisions of our
agreements with lenders and senior secured note holders, the
second transaction occurred on December 20, 2002, with
First Reserve purchasing from us approximately 2.4 million
shares of newly issued Series E Preferred Stock at
$30.00 per share, for an additional investment of
approximately $72.9 million. At a special meeting of
stockholders held on December 27, 2002, our stockholders
approved the convertibility of such Series E Preferred
Stock and the conversion of the shares into common stock. The
shares of Series E Preferred Stock were converted into
24.3 million shares of common stock on December 31,
2002.

As of December 31, 2001 and 2002, dividends
of $2.1 million had been accrued on the Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock. In connection with their investment
in us, on October 15, 2002, First Reserve forgave
approximately $780,000 in dividends that had accrued on
939,380 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock
that First Reserve acquired from Aquila. On December 2,
2002, December 23, 2002, and January 9, 2003, 238,000
shares, 7,000 shares and 939,380 shares of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock, respectively, were converted into
shares of common stock and on February 27, 2003, all
remaining outstanding shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock were converted into shares of common stock.
There are currently no outstanding shares of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock. Any dividends that had accrued on
the respective shares of Series A Convertible Preferred
Stock were reversed on the date of conversion. Therefore, as of
February 27, 2003, there were no accrued dividends.


Through February 20, 2003, First Reserve had
the right to require us to repurchase the shares of common stock
issued as a result of the conversion of the shares of
Series E Preferred Stock for cash if we had a change in
control. As such, the investment has been reflected in the
consolidated balance sheet as Redeemable Common Stock at
December 31, 2002. On February 20, 2003, at the
expiration of this right, the Redeemable Common Stock was
reclassified to stockholders’ equity.

We anticipate that our cash flow from operations
and our credit facility will provide sufficient cash to enable
us to meet our working capital needs, debt service requirements
and planned capital expenditures for property and equipment for
at least the next 12 months. However, further deterioration
in the markets we serve, material changes in our customers
revenues or cash flows or adverse weather conditions may
negatively impact our revenues and cash flows. These factors,
coupled with the lowered capacity and restrictive covenants of
our credit facility, may negatively impact our ability to meet
such needs.

Other Commitments.

As is common in our industry, we have
entered into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the
ordinary course of business that result in risks not directly
reflected in our balance sheets. Our significant off-balance
sheet transactions include liabilities associated with
non-cancelable operating leases, letter of credit obligations
and surety guarantees. We have not engaged in any off-balance
sheet financing arrangements through special purpose entities.

We enter into non-cancelable operating leases for
many of our facility, vehicle and equipment needs. These leases
allow us to conserve cash by paying a monthly lease rental fee
for use of facilities, vehicles and equipment rather than
purchasing them. At the end of the lease, we have no further
obligation to the lessor. We may decide to cancel or terminate a
lease before the end of its term, in which case we are typically
liable to the lessor for the remaining lease payments under the
term of the lease.

We have guaranteed a residual value on certain
equipment operating leases. We guarantee the difference between
this residual value and the fair market value of the underlying
asset at the date of termination of the leases. At
December 31, 2002, the maximum guaranteed residual value
would have been approximately $123.4 million. We believe
that no significant payments will be made as a result of the
difference between the fair market value of the leased equipment
and the guaranteed residual value. However, there can be no
assurance that future significant payments will not be required.

Some customers require us to post letters of
credit to guarantee performance under our contracts and to
ensure payment to our subcontractors and vendors under those
contracts. Certain of our vendors also require letters of credit
to ensure reimbursement for amounts they are disbursing on
behalf of us, such as to beneficiaries under our self-funded
insurance programs. Such letters of credit are generally issued
by a bank or similar financial institution. The letter of credit
commits the issuer to pay specified amounts to the holder of the
letter of credit if the holder demonstrates that we have failed
to perform specified actions. If this were to occur, we would be
required to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit.
Depending on the circumstances of such a reimbursement, we may
also have to record a charge to earnings for the reimbursement.
To date we have not had a claim made against a letter of credit
that resulted in payments by the issuer of the letter of credit
or by us and do not believe that it is likely that any claims
will be made under a letter of credit in the foreseeable future.

We had $71.1 million in letters of credit
outstanding under our credit facility primarily to secure
obligations under our casualty insurance program at
December 31, 2002. While not actual borrowings, letters of
credit do reflect potential liabilities under our credit
facility and therefore are treated as a use of borrowing
capacity under our credit facility. These are irrevocable
stand-by letters of credit with maturities expiring at various
times throughout 2003 and 2004. Upon maturity, it is expected
that the majority of these letters of credit will be renewed for
subsequent one-year periods. Based upon our senior debt to
EBITDA ratio, the borrowing availability under our credit
facility was $83.3 million as of December 31, 2002.

Many customers, particularly in connection with
new construction, require us to post performance and payment
bonds issued by a financial institution known as a surety. These
bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that we will perform
under the terms of a contract and that we will pay
subcontractors and vendors. If we fail to perform under a
contract or to pay subcontractors and vendors, the customer may
demand that the


surety make payments or provide services under
the bond. We must reimburse the surety for any expenses or
outlays it incurs. To date, we have not had any significant
reimbursements to our surety for bond-related costs. We believe
that it is unlikely that we will have to fund claims under our
surety arrangements in the foreseeable future. As of
December 31, 2002, the total amount of outstanding
performance bonds was approximately $461.0 million.

Our future contractual obligations, including
interest under capital leases, are as follows (in thousands):

Concentration of Credit Risk.

We grant credit, generally without
collateral, to our customers, which include electric power and
gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system
operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and
builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial
properties located primarily in the United States. Consequently,
we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in
business and economic factors throughout the United States.
However, we generally are entitled to payment for work performed
and have certain lien rights on our services provided. Under
certain circumstances such as foreclosures or negotiated
settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu
of cash in settlement of receivables. As previously discussed
herein, our customers in the telecommunications business have
experienced significant financial difficulties and in several
instances have filed for bankruptcy. Our utility customers are
also experiencing business challenges in the current business
climate. These economic conditions expose us to increased risk
related to collectibility of receivables for services we have
performed. No customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts
receivable or revenues as of or for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 2001 or 2002.

In June 2002, one of our customers, Adelphia
Communications Corporation, filed for bankruptcy protection
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, as amended. We
have filed liens on various properties to secure substantially
all of our pre-petition receivables. Our carrying value is based
upon our understanding of the current status of the Adelphia
bankruptcy proceeding and a number of assumptions, including
assumptions about the validity, priority and enforceability of
our security interests. We currently believe we will collect a
substantial majority of the balances owed. Should any of the
factors underlying our estimate change, the amount of our
allowance could change significantly. We are uncertain as to
whether such receivables will be collected within one year and
therefore have included this amount in non-current assets as
accounts and notes receivable as of December 31, 2002. Also
included in accounts and notes receivable are amounts due from
another customer relating to the construction of independent
power plants. We have agreed to long-term payment terms for this
customer. The notes receivable are partially secured and bear
interest at 9.5% per year. During 2002, we provided
allowances for a significant portion of these notes receivable
due to a change in the economic viability of the plants securing
them. The collectibility of these notes may ultimately depend on
the value of the collateral securing these notes. As of
December 31, 2002, the total balance due from both of these
customers was $78.4 million, net of an allowance for
doubtful accounts of $28.4 million.

Stock Employee Compensation Trust (SECT).

On March 13, 2002, our board of
directors approved the creation of a SECT to fund certain of our
future employee benefit obligations using our common stock. The
SECT was established by selling 8.0 million shares of our
common stock, including 986,000 shares we purchased during
2001 pursuant to our Stock Repurchase Plan, to the SECT in
exchange for a promissory note plus an amount equal to the
aggregate par value of the shares. As part of the settlement of
the proxy contest with Aquila, on May 20, 2002, we
terminated the SECT and repurchased the 7,911,069 shares of
common stock remaining in the SECT by canceling the promissory
note. The 7,911,069 shares were transferred into treasury
stock on May 21, 2002, and were retired on June 28,
2002.

Stock Repurchase Plan.

Our board of directors authorized a
Stock Repurchase Plan under which up to $75.0 million of
our common stock could be repurchased. Under the Stock
Repurchase Plan, we could conduct purchases through open market
transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws.
During 2001, we purchased 986,000 shares of common stock
for approximately $15.3 million. On March 13, 2002, the


986,000 shares of common stock were sold to
our SECT, and were no longer considered treasury stock. These
shares were subsequently retired on June 28, 2002, after we
terminated the SECT. During 2002, Quanta purchased
924,500 shares of its common stock for approximately
$11.7 million under the Stock Repurchase Plan. As of
July 1, 2002, the independent committee of our board of
directors determined to cease the Stock Repurchase Plan. As a
result of the credit facility and senior secured notes
amendments, any further stock repurchases, other than those
associated with Quanta’s stock incentive plans, are
prohibited.

Litigation.

On
November 28, 2001, Aquila filed an arbitration demand
against us with challenging our amendment to our stockholder
rights plan. As part of the settlement of Aquila’s proxy
contest with us, discussed below, this lawsuit was dismissed
with prejudice on May 21, 2002.

On November 28, 2001, Aquila also filed a
complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery that challenged the
adoption of our rights plan amendment. As part of the settlement
of Aquila’s proxy contest, this lawsuit was dismissed with
prejudice on May 31, 2002.

On December 21, 2001, a purported
stockholder of Quanta filed a putative class action and
derivative complaint alleging that the named directors breached
their fiduciary duties by taking certain actions, including
adoption of the rights plan amendment, in response to the
announcement by Aquila that it intended to acquire control of
Quanta through open market purchases of our shares. On
October 31, 2002, the case was dismissed at the request of
the plaintiffs.

On March 21, 2002, Aquila filed a complaint
in the Delaware Court of Chancery alleging that the Special
Committee of our board of directors breached its fiduciary duty
in connection with the adoption of our SECT and new employment
agreements entered into with certain of our employees. As part
of the settlement of Aquila’s proxy contest, this lawsuit
was dismissed with prejudice on May 30, 2002.

In addition, we are from time to time a party to
various other lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that
arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions
typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged
personal injury, breach of contract, property damage, punitive
damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or
declaratory relief. With respect to all such lawsuits, claims
and proceedings, we accrue reserves when it is probable a
liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be
reasonably estimated. We do not believe that any of these other
proceedings, separately or in the aggregate would be expected to
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or
financial position.

Proxy Solicitation.

On February 8, 2002, Aquila
announced its intention to conduct a proxy solicitation to
replace members of our board of directors with a slate of its
own nominees. On May 20, 2002, we and Aquila announced that
we had reached an agreement for Aquila to terminate its proxy
contest. Under the terms of the settlement, Aquila withdrew all
pending litigation and arbitration against us. The companies
also agreed to a standstill whereby Aquila agreed not to
purchase shares of our common stock on the open market and not
to wage another proxy fight for control of us and we agreed to
terminate the SECT. We recorded approximately $1.1 million
and $10.5 million in proxy costs for the years ended
December 31, 2001 and 2002, respectively, which are
included in selling, general and administrative expenses.

Change of Control.

We entered into new employment
agreements with certain employees, as of March 13, 2002,
which become effective upon a change of control (as defined in
the new employment agreements) of Quanta. The new employment
agreements supplemented existing employment agreements already
in effect. The new employment agreements provide that, following
a change of control, if we terminate the employee’s
employment without cause (as defined in the new employment
agreements), the employee terminates employment for good reason
(as defined in the new employment agreements), or the
employee’s employment terminates due to death or
disability, we will pay certain amounts to the employee, which
may vary with the level of the employee’s responsibility
and the terms of the employee’s prior employment
arrangements. In addition, in the case of certain senior
executives, these payments would also be due if the employee
terminates his or her employment within the 30-day window period
commencing six months after the change in control. On
June 1, 2002, Mr. Colson, our chief executive officer,
relinquished his right to receive the payment described above
upon a voluntary termination during such 30-day period.


Acquisitions.

During
2002, we acquired two companies for an aggregate consideration
of 251,079 shares of common stock and approximately
$8.0 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The cash
portion of such consideration was provided by proceeds from
borrowings under the credit facility. In connection with the
amendment of our credit facility and senior secured notes, we
are limited to an aggregate dollar level of cash consideration
that we can use to fund acquisitions.

Related Party Transactions.

In the normal course of business, we
from time to time enter into transactions with related parties.
These transactions typically take the form of network service
work for Aquila or facility leases with prior owners. See
additional discussion in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Inflation

Due to relatively low levels of inflation
experienced during the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001
and 2002, inflation did not have a significant effect on our
results.

Significant Balance Sheet Changes

Total assets decreased approximately
$678.1 million in 2002 compared to 2001. This decrease is
primarily due to the following:


In 2002, total liabilities decreased
approximately $155.9 million, redeemable common stock
increased $72.9 million and stockholders’ equity
decreased approximately $595.1 million. These changes were
primarily due to the following:


Results of Operations

The following table sets forth selected
statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of
revenues for the years indicated (dollars in thousands):

Year ended December 31, 2002 compared to
the year ended December 31, 2001

Revenues.

Revenues
decreased $264.2 million, or 13.1%, to $1.75 billion
for the year ended December 31, 2002. This decrease was
attributable to lower revenues, primarily from
telecommunications and cable customers, due in part to the
continued decrease in capital spending by our customers, the
inability of certain of these customers to raise new capital,
bankruptcies of certain customers and the overall downturn in
the national economy, which have negatively impacted the award
of work to specialty contractors. This decrease was partially
offset by a full year of contributed revenues for those
companies acquired during 2001 and growth in revenues from our
electric power and gas customers.

Gross profit.

Gross
profit decreased $177.1 million to $236.8 million for
the year ended December 31, 2002. Gross margin decreased
from 20.5% for the year ended December 31, 2001 to 13.5%
for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease in gross
margin resulted primarily from declining volumes due to economic
factors noted above, significantly lower margins on work
performed due to increased pricing pressures and lower asset
utilization. The decrease also resulted from higher than normal
transition costs during the first six months of 2002 on one
telecommunications outsourcing contract.

Selling, general and administrative expenses.

Selling, general and administrative
expenses increased $31.2 million, or 16.0%, to
$225.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, we recorded
$35.7 million in bad debt expense, $10.5 million in
proxy costs and $4.5 million in expensed loan and equity
transaction costs associated with amendments of our existing
debt agreements and issuances of stock. During the year ended
December 31, 2001, we recorded $20.3 million in


bad debt expense and $1.1 million in proxy
costs. Excluding the impact of these items, selling, general and
administrative expenses for the year ended December 31,
2002 increased approximately $1.8 million, primarily due to
the inclusion of a full year of costs associated with companies
acquired during 2001 and higher professional fees due to
increased collection efforts on troubled accounts, partially
offset by reductions in personnel and bonuses. As a percentage
of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses
increased due to the items noted above, as well as the impact of
lower revenues.

Goodwill impairment.

During the year ended
December 31, 2002, we recognized an interim non-cash
SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairment charge of
$166.6 million. Any interim impairment adjustments
recognized after adoption are required to be recognized as
operating expenses. The primary factor contributing to the
interim impairment charge was the overall deterioration of the
business climate during 2002 in the markets we serve.

Interest expense.

Interest expense decreased
$0.2 million, or 0.6%, to $35.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 2002, due to lower average levels of
debt outstanding during 2002, partially offset by higher
weighted average interest rates in 2002 and expensed loan costs
associated with debt amendments in 2002.

Provision (benefit) for income taxes.

The benefit for income taxes was
$19.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002,
with an effective tax rate of 10.2%, compared to a provision of
$71.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 and
an effective tax rate of 45.4%. The lower tax rate in 2002
results primarily from the interim goodwill impairment charge,
the majority of which is not deductible for tax purposes,
thereby reducing the amount of tax benefit recorded.

Cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle, net of tax.

Based on our
transitional impairment test performed upon adoption of
SFAS No. 142, we recognized a charge, net of tax, of
$445.4 million to reduce the carrying value of the goodwill
of our reporting units to its implied fair value for the year
ended December 31, 2002. Under SFAS No. 142, the
impairment adjustment recognized at adoption of the new rule was
reflected as a cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle in the year ended December 31, 2002.

Net income (loss).

Net income decreased
$705.3 million to a net loss of $619.6 million for the
year ended December 31, 2002, compared to net income of
$85.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001,
primarily due to impairments of goodwill recorded pursuant to
SFAS No. 142 and decreased gross profit as described
above.

Dividends on preferred
stock.

For the year ended
December 31, 2002, we recorded approximately $11,000 in
negative dividends on preferred stock. In connection with their
investment in us, on October 15, 2002, First Reserve
acquired approximately 0.9 million shares of our
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. On October 15,
2002, First Reserve forgave approximately $780,000 in dividends
that had accrued on those shares. On December 2, 2002, and
December 23, 2002, 238,000 shares and 7,000 shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, respectively, were
converted into shares of common stock. Any dividends that had
accrued on the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred
Stock were reversed on the date of conversion.

Non-cash beneficial conversion charge.

The original as-converted share price
negotiated with First Reserve for the Series E Preferred
Stock on October 15, 2002 was $3.00 per share which
was an above market price. On December 20, 2002, the date
First Reserve purchased the Series E Preferred Stock, our
stock closed at $3.35 per share. Accordingly, we recorded a
non-cash beneficial conversion charge of $8.5 million based
on the $0.35 per share differential. The non-cash
beneficial conversion charge is recognized as a deemed dividend
to the Series E Preferred Stockholder and is recorded as a
decrease to net income attributable to common stock and an
increase in additional paid-in capital. The non-cash beneficial
conversion charge had no effect on our operating income, cash
flows or stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2002.

Year ended December 31, 2001 compared to
the year ended December 31, 2000

Revenues.

Revenues
increased $221.6 million, or 12.4%, to $2.01 billion
for the year ended December 31, 2001. This increase was
attributable to strong growth in electric power and gas revenues
as a result of increased outsourcing and deregulation, a full
year of contributed revenues in 2001 for those companies
acquired in 2000 and revenues of $42.3 million from
platform companies acquired in 2001 that continued to


exist as separate reporting subsidiaries. The
increase was partially offset by decreased revenues from
telecommunications customers due in part to the continued
inability of certain of the customers to raise new capital and
the overall downturn in the national economy.

Gross profit.

Gross
profit decreased $0.3 million to $413.8 million for
the year ended December 31, 2001. Gross margin decreased
from 23.1% for the year ended December 31, 2000 to 20.5%
for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease in gross
margin resulted from lower margins on work performed for
telecommunications customers due to increased pricing pressures,
lower asset utilization and the economic factors noted above,
partially offset by higher margins received on work performed
for the electric power and gas customers.

Selling, general and administrative expenses.

Selling, general and administrative
expenses increased $51.0 million, or 35.5%, to
$194.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2001 include $13.1 million in increased
bad debt expense and $1.1 million in proxy costs. In
addition, $4.2 million of the increase was attributable to
the platform companies we acquired subsequent to
December 31, 2000. Selling, general and administrative
expenses also included a full period of costs in 2001 associated
with those companies acquired during 2000. The remainder of the
increase was attributable to tuck-in acquisitions and the
continued establishment of infrastructure to facilitate our
growth and to integrate our acquired businesses. As a percentage
of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses
increased due to the items noted above.

Merger and special charges.

In December 2000, we agreed to
conclude our obligations under the management services agreement
with Aquila in exchange for a one-time payment to Aquila of
approximately $28.6 million.

Interest expense.

Interest expense increased
$10.4 million, or 40.3%, to $36.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2001, due to higher average levels of
debt experienced during 2001.

Provision for income taxes.

The provision for income taxes was
$71.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001,
with an effective tax rate of 45.4% compared to
$93.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000 and
an effective tax rate of 46.9%. In 2000, the provision reflected
a portion of the merger and special charges for which no tax
benefit had been provided.

Net income.

Net
income decreased $20.0 million, or 18.9%, to
$85.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001,
compared to $105.7 million for the year ended
December 31, 2000.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In August 2001, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” SFAS No. 144
supersedes SFAS No. 121, “Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be
Disposed Of,” and the accounting and reporting provisions
of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 (APB Opinion
No. 30). SFAS No. 144 addresses the financial
accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of
long-lived assets and establishes criteria for determining when
a long-lived asset is held for sale. We adopted
SFAS No. 144 on January 1, 2002, with no material
effect on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

In April 2002, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 145, “Rescission of FASB Statements
No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13,
and Technical Corrections.” SFAS No. 145 requires
that gains and losses from extinguishment of debt be classified
as extraordinary items only if they meet the criteria in APB
Opinion No. 30. Applying the provisions of APB Opinion
No. 30 will distinguish transactions that are part of an
entity’s recurring operations from those that are unusual
and infrequent and meet the criteria for classification as an
extraordinary item. SFAS No. 145 is effective for us
beginning January 1, 2003. Upon the adoption of
SFAS No. 145, if we record any extraordinary items
related to the extinguishment of debt, we will have to
reclassify such items in our prior period statements of
operations to conform to the presentation required by
SFAS No. 145. Under SFAS No. 145, we will
report gains and losses on the extinguishment of debt, if any,
in pre-tax earnings rather than in extraordinary items.


In July 2002, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated
with Exit or Disposal Activities.” SFAS No. 146
addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs
associated with exit or disposal activities, such as
restructurings, involuntarily terminating employees and
consolidating facilities initiated after December 31, 2002.
We will apply this statement to exit or disposal activities, if
any, beginning in fiscal 2003.

In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others,” which
clarifies the disclosures that are to be made by a guarantor in
its interim and annual financial statements regarding
obligations under certain guarantees issued. FIN 45
requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a
guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation
undertaken in issuing the guarantee. The initial recognition and
measurement provisions of FIN 45 are applicable on a
prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after
December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements of
FIN 45 are effective for financial statements of interim or
annual reports for fiscal years ending after December 15,
2002, which we have adopted. We will adopt the initial
recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 45 on a
prospective basis.

In December 2002, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure —
an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123.”
SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” to provide
alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the
fair value-based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the
disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require
prominent disclosures in both interim and annual financial
statements about the method of accounting for stock-based
employee compensation and the effect of the method used on
reported results. The transition guidance and annual disclosure
provisions of SFAS No. 148 are effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2002. The interim disclosure provisions are
effective for financial reports containing financial statements
for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. We
have adopted the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148
in these consolidated financial statements.

Critical Accounting Policies

The discussion and analysis of our financial
condition and results of operations are based on our
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial
statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist
at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, based on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. There can be
no assurance that actual results will not differ from those
estimates. Management has reviewed its development and selection
of critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our
board of directors. We believe the following accounting
policies, which are also described in Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, affect our more significant
judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements:

Current and Long-Term Accounts and Notes
    Receivable and Provision for Doubtful
    Accounts.

We provide an allowance for
    doubtful accounts when collection of an account or note
    receivable is considered doubtful. Inherent in the assessment of
    the allowance for doubtful accounts are certain judgments and
    estimates including, among others, our customer’s access to
    capital, our customer’s willingness or ability to pay,
    general economic conditions and the ongoing relationship with
    the customer. For example, certain of our customers, primarily
    large public telecommunications carriers, have filed for
    bankruptcy in the year ended December 31, 2002, or have
    been experiencing financial difficulties, and as a result we
    increased our allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect that
    certain customers may be unable to meet their obligations to us
    in the future. Should additional customers file for bankruptcy
    or experience difficulties, or should anticipated recoveries
    relating to the receivables in existing bankruptcies and other
    workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience
    reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current reserves.


Outlook

The following statements are based on current
expectations. These statements are forward looking, and actual
results may differ materially.

Like many companies that provide installation and
maintenance services to the electric power, gas,
telecommunications and cable television industries, we are
facing a number of challenges. Our operating environment has
changed dramatically. The telecommunications and utility markets
have experienced substantial change during 2002 as evidenced by
an increased number of bankruptcies in the telecommunica-


tions market, continued devaluation of many of
our customers’ debt and equity securities and pricing
pressures resulting from challenges faced by major industry
participants. These factors have contributed to the delay and
cancellation of projects and reduction of capital spending that
have impacted our operations and ability to grow at historical
levels.

We continue to focus on the elements of the
business we can control, including cost control, the margins we
accept on projects, collecting receivables, ensuring quality
service and right sizing initiatives to match the markets we
serve. These initiatives include aligning our work force with
our current revenue base, evaluating opportunities to reduce the
number of field offices and evaluating our non-core assets for
potential sale. Such initiatives could result in future charges
related to, among others, severance, facilities shutdown and
consolidation, property disposal and other exit costs as we
execute these initiatives.

We expect consistent demand for our services from
our electric power and gas customers throughout 2003 with
continued weakness in demand for our services from our
telecommunications and cable customers and relatively level
demand for our ancillary services. Financial and economic
pressures have led our customers to return to their core
competencies and focus on cost reductions, resulting in an
increased focus on outsourcing services. We believe that we are
adequately positioned to provide these services because of our
proven full-service operating units with broad geographic reach,
financial capability and technical expertise.

Capital expenditures in 2003 are expected to be
approximately $50.0 million. A majority of the expenditures
will be for operating equipment. We expect expenditures for 2003
to be funded substantially through internal cash flows and, to
the extent necessary, from borrowings under our credit facility.

In March 2003, in conjunction with a stock option
exchange program, we cancelled eligible options to purchase an
aggregate of 6,769,483 shares of our common stock. Pursuant
to the terms of the offer, Quanta granted restricted stock
representing an aggregate of 3,022,112 shares of our common
stock. This restricted stock issuance will require us to
recognize a non-cash compensation charge of approximately
$3.0 million per year over the three year vesting period of
the restricted stock.

Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and
Information

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes
statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections,
intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as
“forward-looking statements” under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these
statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts. They use words such as
“anticipate,” “estimate,”
“project,” “forecast,” “may,”
“will,” “should,” “could,”
“expect,” “believe” and other words of
similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not
limited to, statements relating to the following:

Any or all of our forward-looking statements may
turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate
assumptions and by known or unknown risks and uncertainties,
including the following:


Many of these factors will be important in
determining our actual future results. Consequently, no
forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Our actual future
results may vary materially from those expressed or implied in
any forward-looking statements.

All of our forward-looking statements, whether
written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary
statements and any other cautionary statements that may
accompany such forward-looking statements. In addition, we
disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements
to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.


ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk primarily related
to potential adverse changes in interest rates and, to a certain
extent, commodity prices, as discussed below. Management does
not generally use derivative financial instruments for trading
or to speculate on changes in interest rates or commodity
prices. As of December 31, 2002, however, we had a
derivative contract outstanding that related to anticipated
exposure in the price of natural gas. We monitor our derivative
position by regularly evaluating our position. Management is
actively involved in monitoring exposure to market risk and
continues to develop and utilize appropriate risk management
techniques. We are not exposed to any other significant market
risks, foreign currency exchange risk or interest rate risk from
the use of derivative financial instruments.

The sensitivity analyses below, which illustrate
our hypothetical potential market risk exposure, estimate the
effects of hypothetical sudden and sustained changes in the
applicable market conditions on 2002 earnings. The sensitivity
analyses presented do not consider any additional actions we may
take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. The hypothetical
changes and assumptions may be different from what actually
occurs in the future.

Interest Rates.

As
of December 31, 2002, we had no derivative financial
instruments to manage interest rate risk. As such, we are
exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in
interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. As of
December 31, 2001 and 2002, the fair value of our
fixed-rate debt of $399.0 million and $392.3 million
was approximately $357.1 million and $317.3 million,
respectively, based upon discounted future cash flows using
incremental borrowing rates and current market prices. As of
December 31, 2001, the fair value of our variable rate debt
of $109.3 million approximated book value and the
detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical
50 basis point increase in fixed interest rates would be
approximately $0.5 million. As of December 31, 2002,
we had no borrowings under our credit facility and no other
variable rate obligations.

Commodity Price Exposure.

In October 2001, we entered into a
forward purchase contract (Contract A) with settlements
through 2006, in order to secure pricing on anticipated gas
requirements related to a project in process at
December 31, 2001 that was substantially complete at
March 31, 2002. Our objective was to mitigate the
variability in the price of natural gas by securing the price we
will have to pay to the Contract A counterparty. On
March 29, 2002, we entered into a sub-services agreement
with one of our customers (the Counterparty Contract) whereby
the customer assumed all obligations associated with
Contract A. On November 5, 2002, Contract A was
sold for a gain of $0.3 million and the related
Counterparty Contract was terminated.

In April 2002, we entered into another forward
purchase contract (Contract B) with settlements through
March 2003, in order to secure pricing on anticipated gas
requirements related to a project completed during the quarter
ended September 30, 2002. Our objective was to mitigate the
variability in the price of natural gas by securing the price we
will have to pay the Contract B counterparty. As of
December 31, 2002, the fair value of Contract B was
approximately $257,000.


ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Quanta Services, Inc.:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholders’ equity and cash flows present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Quanta Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31,
2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion. The consolidated financial statements of
Quanta Services, Inc. as of and for each of the two years in the
period ended December 31, 2001, were audited by other
independent public accountants who have ceased operations. Those
independent public accountants expressed an unqualified opinion
on those financial statements in their report dated
February 14, 2002 (except for the matters discussed in
prior year Note 16 (not separately presented herein), as to
which the date was March 25, 2002).

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements, effective January 1, 2002, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”.

As discussed above, the consolidated financial
statements of Quanta Services, Inc. as of December 31, 2001
and for each of the two years in the period ended
December 31, 2001 were audited by other independent public
accountants who have ceased operations. As described in
Note 2, these consolidated financial statements have been
revised to include the transitional disclosures required by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, which was
adopted by the Company as of January 1, 2002. We audited
the transitional disclosures described in Note 2. In our
opinion, the transitional disclosures for 2000 and 2001 in
Note 2 are appropriate. However, we were not engaged to
audit, review or apply any procedures to the 2000 and 2001
consolidated financial statements of Quanta Services, Inc. other
than with respect to such disclosures and, accordingly, we do
not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on the
2000 and 2001 consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Houston, Texas

February 27, 2003 (except for the matters

discussed in Note 16, as to which

the date is March 10, 2003)


NOTE:

This is a copy of a report previously issued by
    Arthur Andersen LLP, our former independent public accountants.
    This report has not been reissued by Arthur Andersen LLP in
    connection with the filing of Quanta Services, Inc.’s
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 2002. Quanta Services Inc.’s consolidated
    balance sheet as of December 31, 2000 and the consolidated
    statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and cash
    flows for the year ended December 31, 1999 are not required
    to be presented and are not included in this Form 10-K.
    Additionally, the reference to Note 16 below is applicable
    to the Company’s footnotes to their audited financial
    statements as of December 31, 2001.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS

To Quanta Services, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Quanta Services, Inc. (a Delaware corporation)
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 2001, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and
stockholders’ equity for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2001. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Quanta Services, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 2001, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2001, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States.

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Houston, Texas

February 14, 2002 (except for the matters

discussed in Note 16, as to which

the date is March 25, 2002)


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands, except share
information)

(a)

Shares issued and outstanding as of
    December 31, 2002, do not include the
    24,307,410 shares of Redeemable Common Stock valued at
    $72.9 million which was reclassified to stockholders’
    equity on February 20, 2003.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS

(In thousands, except per share
information)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

(In thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(In thousands, except share
information)

(a)

Shares issued and outstanding as of
    December 31, 2002, do not include the
    24,307,410 shares of Redeemable Common Stock valued at
    $72.9 million which was reclassified to stockholders’
    equity on February 20, 2003.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

1.

BUSINESS AND ORGANIZATION:

Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading
provider of specialized contracting services, offering
end-to-end network solutions to the electric power, gas,
telecommunications and cable television industries.
Quanta’s comprehensive services include designing,
installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure.

Since January 1, 2000 and through 2002,
Quanta has acquired 36 businesses. These acquisitions were
accounted for as purchases and have been included in
Quanta’s historical financial statements beginning on their
respective dates of acquisition.

In the course of its operations, Quanta is
subject to certain risk factors, including but not limited to
risks related to: economic downturn, access to capital, the
financial condition of Quanta’s customers, the
collectibility of receivables, significant fluctuations in
quarterly results, contracts, recoverability of goodwill, rapid
technological and structural changes in the industries Quanta
serves, competition, internal growth and operating strategies,
management of growth, acquisition integration and financing,
unionized workforce, dependence on key personnel, availability
of qualified employees, potential exposure to environmental
liabilities and anti-takeover measures.

2.

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES:

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements of Quanta
include the accounts of Quanta and its wholly owned
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made in prior
years’ financial statements to conform to classifications
used in the current year.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States requires the use of estimates and assumptions by
management in determining the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities
known to exist as of the date the financial statements are
published and the reported amount of revenues and expenses
recognized during the periods presented. Quanta reviews all
significant estimates affecting its consolidated financial
statements on a recurring basis and records the effect of any
necessary adjustments prior to their publication. Judgments and
estimates are based on Quanta’s beliefs and assumptions
derived from information available at the time such judgments
and estimates are made. Uncertainties with respect to such
estimates and assumptions are inherent in the preparation of
financial statements. Estimates are primarily used in
Quanta’s assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts,
valuation of inventory, fair value assumption in analyzing
goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims
liabilities, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion
accounting and provision for income taxes. The accompanying
consolidated balance sheets include preliminary allocations of
the respective purchase price paid for the companies acquired
during the latest 12 months using the “purchase”
method of accounting and, accordingly, are subject to final
adjustment.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Quanta considers all highly liquid investments
purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to
be cash equivalents.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Quanta had non-cash investing and financing
activities of approximately $1.7 million during the year
ended December 31, 2000 related to the conversion of
certain convertible subordinated notes. Aquila, Inc. (Aquila)
converted the convertible subordinated notes into approximately
5.4 million shares of Quanta’s common stock on
June 13, 2000.

In addition, pursuant to its acquisition program,
Quanta acquired assets through purchase acquisitions with an
estimated fair value, net of cash acquired, of
$215.8 million and liabilities of $119.5 million
resulting in the recording of $301.0 million in goodwill in
2000. Quanta acquired assets through purchase acquisitions with
an estimated fair value, net of cash acquired, of
$20.9 million and liabilities of $13.1 million
resulting in the recording of $156.9 million in goodwill in
2001. Quanta acquired assets through purchase acquisitions with
an estimated fair value, net of cash acquired, of
$2.0 million and liabilities of 2.5 million resulting
in the recording of $11.8 million in goodwill in 2002.

Current and Long-Term Accounts and Notes
    Receivable and Provision for Doubtful Accounts

Quanta provides an allowance for doubtful
accounts when collection of an account or note receivable is
considered doubtful. Inherent in the assessment of the allowance
for doubtful accounts are certain judgments and estimates
including, among others, our customer’s access to capital,
the customer’s willingness or ability to pay, general
economic conditions and the ongoing relationship with the
customer. Under certain circumstances such as foreclosures or
negotiated settlements, Quanta may take title to the underlying
assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. As of
December 31, 2002, Quanta has provided allowances for
doubtful accounts of approximately $66.0 million. Certain
of Quanta’s customers, several of them large public
telecommunications carriers, filed for bankruptcy in the year
ended December 31, 2002 or have been experiencing financial
difficulties. Also a number of Quanta’s utility customers
are experiencing financial difficulties in the current business
climate. Should additional customers file for bankruptcy or
continue to experience difficulties, or should anticipated
recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or
other workout situations fail to materialize, Quanta could
experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current
allowances provided. In addition, material changes in our
customers’ revenues or cash flows could affect our ability
to collect amounts due from them.

In June 2002, one of Quanta’s customers,
Adelphia Communications Corporation, filed for bankruptcy
protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, as
amended. Quanta has filed liens on various properties to secure
substantially all of its pre-petition receivables. The carrying
value is based upon Quanta’s understanding of the current
status of the Adelphia bankruptcy proceeding and a number of
assumptions, including assumptions about the validity, priority
and enforceability of our security interests. Quanta currently
believes it will collect a substantial majority of the balances
owed. Should any of the factors underlying Quanta’s
estimate change, the amount of Quanta’s allowance could
change significantly. Quanta is uncertain as to whether such
receivables will be collected within one year and therefore has
included this amount in non-current assets as Accounts and Notes
Receivable as of December 31, 2002. Also included in
Accounts and Notes Receivable are amounts due from another
customer relating to the construction of independent power
plants. Quanta has agreed to long-term payment terms for this
customer. The notes receivable are partially secured and bear
interest at 9.5% per year. During 2002, we provided
allowances for a significant portion of these notes receivable
due to a change in the economic viability of the plants securing
them. The collectibility of these notes may ultimately depend on
the value of the collateral securing these notes. As of
December 31, 2002, the total balance due from both of these
customers was $78.4 million, net of an allowance for
doubtful accounts of $28.4 million.

The balances billed but not paid by customers
pursuant to retainage provisions in certain contracts will be
due upon completion of the contracts and acceptance by the
customer. Based on Quanta’s experience with similar
contracts in recent years, the majority of the retention balance
at each balance sheet date will be


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

collected within the subsequent fiscal year.
Current retainage balances as of December 31, 2001 and 2002
were approximately $50.2 million and $47.2 million,
respectively, and are included in accounts receivable. Due to
contractual provisions, the retainage balances not to be
collected within the next fiscal year are $5.9 and
$0.7 million, as of December 31, 2001 and 2002,
respectively, and are included in Accounts and Notes Receivable,
net.

Due to contractual provisions, certain balances,
though the earnings process is complete, are not billable to
customers until defined milestones are reached. These balances
are considered to be unbilled receivables and are included in
accounts receivable at year-end. At December 31, 2001 and
2002, these balances were approximately $50.3 million and
$39.7 million, respectively.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Quanta grants credit, generally without
collateral, to its customers, which include electric power and
gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system
operators, governmental entities, general contractors, builders
and owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties
located primarily in the United States. Consequently, Quanta is
subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business
and economic factors throughout the United States. However,
Quanta generally is entitled to payment for work performed and
typically has certain lien rights on the services provided. No
customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable or
revenues as of or for the years ended December 31, 2001 or
2002.

Inventories

Inventories consist of parts and supplies held
for use in the ordinary course of business and are valued by
Quanta at the lower of cost or market using the first-in,
first-out (FIFO) method. As of December 31, 2002,
Quanta has recorded a valuation allowance of approximately
$3.0 million.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost, and
depreciation is computed using the straight-line method, net of
estimated salvage values, over the estimated useful lives of the
assets. Leasehold improvements are capitalized and amortized
over the lesser of the life of the lease or the estimated useful
life of the asset. Depreciation and amortization expense related
to property and equipment was approximately $37.5 million,
$53.4 million and $60.2 million for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively.

Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are
charged to expense when incurred. Expenditures for major
renewals and betterments, which extend the useful lives of
existing equipment, are capitalized and depreciated. Upon
retirement or disposition of property and equipment, the cost
and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the
accounts and any resulting gain or loss is recognized in the
statements of operations.

Management reviews long-lived assets for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount may not be realizable. If an evaluation
is required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows
associated with the asset are compared to the asset’s
carrying amount to determine if an impairment of such asset is
necessary. The effect of any impairment would be to expense the
difference between the fair value of such asset and its carrying
value.

Debt Issuance Costs

Debt issuance costs related to Quanta’s
credit facility, the convertible subordinated notes and the
senior secured notes are included in Other Assets, net. In
connection with the amendments of both the credit facility and
the senior secured notes in August and December 2002, Quanta
incurred additional debt issuance costs of $6.2 million.
Quanta accounts for these costs in accordance with
EITF 98-14 for the credit facility and EITF 96-19 for the
senior secured notes. Accordingly, $4.4 million of these
costs were capitalized and are being


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

amortized over the remaining term of the
respective agreements, as amended, with $1.8 million being
charged to selling, general and administrative expenses during
2002. As a result of the amendment decreasing the commitment
amount of the credit facility, in accordance with EITF 98-14,
Quanta expensed approximately $1.0 million of the
unamortized debt issuance costs into interest expense during the
year ended December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2001
and 2002, capitalized debt issuance costs were
$12.5 million and $15.9 million with accumulated
amortization of $3.8 million and $6.4 million,
respectively.

Goodwill and Other Intangibles

Effective January 1, 2002, Quanta adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets,” which establishes new accounting and reporting
requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets. Under
SFAS No. 142, all goodwill amortization ceased
effective January 1, 2002.

Material amounts of recorded goodwill
attributable to each of Quanta’s reporting units were
tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of each
reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value was
determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow,
market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches.
These impairment tests are required to be performed at adoption
of SFAS No. 142 and at least annually thereafter.
Significant estimates used in the methodologies include
estimates of future cash flows, future short-term and long-term
growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimates of
market multiples for each of the reportable units. On an ongoing
basis (absent any impairment indicators), Quanta performs
impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter.

Based on Quanta’s transitional impairment
test performed upon adoption of SFAS No. 142, it
recognized a $488.5 million non-cash charge,
($445.4 million, net of tax) to reduce the carrying value
of goodwill to the implied fair value of Quanta’s reporting
units. This impairment is a result of adopting a fair value
approach, under SFAS No. 142, to testing impairment of
goodwill as compared to the previous method utilized, as
permitted under accounting standards existing at that time, in
which evaluations of goodwill impairment were made by Quanta
using estimated future undiscounted cash flows to determine if
goodwill would be recoverable. Under SFAS No. 142, the
impairment adjustment recognized at adoption of the new rules
was reflected as a cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle, net of tax, in the year ended December 31, 2002.

Quanta further recognized an interim non-cash
goodwill impairment charge of $166.6 million during the
year ended December 31, 2002. Impairment adjustments
recognized after adoption are required to be recognized as
operating expenses. The primary factor contributing to the
interim impairment charge was the overall deterioration of the
business climate during 2002 in the markets Quanta serves as
evidenced by an increased number of bankruptcies in the
telecommunications industry, continued devaluation of several of
Quanta’s customers’ debt and equity securities and
pricing pressures resulting from challenges faced by major
industry participants. Fair value was determined using a
combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and
market capitalization valuation approaches. Future impairments,
if any, will be recognized as operating expenses.

A summary of changes in Quanta’s goodwill
for the year ended December 31, 2002 is as follows (in
thousands):


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Quanta has also recorded an Other Intangible
Asset of $2.1 million related to customer relationships.
The estimated life of this intangible asset is eight years and
accumulated amortization as of December 31, 2002 was
approximately $0.3 million. Estimated annual amortization
expense for future periods is approximately $0.3 million.

The unaudited results of operations presented
below for the year ended December 31, 2002 and adjusted
results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2000
and 2001, reflect the operations of Quanta had the
non-amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 been
adopted effective January 1, 2000 (in thousands, except per
share data):

Revenue Recognition

Quanta recognizes revenue when services are
performed except when work is being performed under a fixed
price contract. Revenues from fixed price contracts are
recognized on the percentage-of-completion method measured by
the percentage of costs incurred-to-date to total estimated
costs for each contract. Such contracts generally provide that
the customer accept completion of progress to date and
compensate Quanta for services rendered, measured typically in
terms of units installed, hours expended or some other measure
of progress. Contract costs typically include all direct
material, labor and subcontract costs and those indirect costs
related to contract performance, such as indirect labor,
supplies, tools, repairs and depreciation costs. Provisions for
the total estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made in
the period in which such losses are determined. Changes in job
performance, job conditions, estimated profitability and final
contract settlements may result in revisions to costs and income
and their effects are recognized in the period in which the
revisions are determined.

The current asset “Costs and estimated
earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts”
represents revenues recognized in excess of amounts billed. The
current liability “Billings in excess of costs and
estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts” represents
billings in excess of revenues recognized.

Income Taxes

Quanta follows the liability method of accounting
for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
“Accounting for Income Taxes.” Under this method,
deferred assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax
consequences of temporary differences between the financial
reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities,


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

and are measured using the enacted tax rates and
laws that will be in effect when the underlying assets or
liabilities are recovered or settled.

Certain of the companies acquired were
S corporations for income tax purposes and, accordingly,
any income tax liabilities for the periods prior to the
acquisitions are the responsibility of the respective
stockholders. Effective with the acquisitions, the
S corporations converted to C corporations.
Accordingly, at the date of acquisition an estimated deferred
tax liability has been recorded to provide for the estimated
future income tax liability resulting from the difference
between the book and tax bases of the net assets of these former
S corporations. For purposes of these consolidated
financial statements, federal and state income taxes have been
provided for the post-acquisition periods.

Collective Bargaining Agreements

Certain of the subsidiaries are party to various
collective bargaining agreements with certain of their
employees. The agreements require such subsidiaries to pay
specified wages and provide certain benefits to their union
employees. These agreements expire at various times.

Self-Insurance

Quanta is insured for workers’ compensation,
employer’s liability, auto liability and general liability
claims, subject to a deductible of $1,000,000 per
occurrence. In addition, effective January 1, 2002, Quanta
consolidated the various non-union employee related health care
benefits plans that existed at certain of its subsidiaries into
one corporate plan which is subject to a deductible of
$250,000 per claimant per year. Losses up to the deductible
amounts are accrued based upon Quanta’s estimates of the
ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims
incurred but not reported. The accruals are based upon known
facts and historical trends and management believes such
accruals to be adequate. At December 31, 2001 and 2002, the
amounts accrued for self-insurance claims were
$28.3 million and $45.0 million, respectively, with
$14.7 million and $27.4 million, respectively,
considered to be long-term and included in Other Non-Current
Liabilities.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, accounts payable, the credit facility and
notes payable to various financial institutions approximate fair
value. The fair value of the senior secured notes is estimated
based on interest rates for the same or similar debt offered to
Quanta having the same or similar remaining maturities and
collateral requirements. At December 31, 2001 and 2002, the
fair value of Quanta’s senior secured notes of
$210.0 million was approximately $223.5 million and
$210.0 million, respectively. The fair value of the
convertible subordinated notes is estimated based on quoted
secondary market prices for these notes as of year-end. At
December 31, 2001 and 2002, the fair value of Quanta’s
convertible subordinated notes of $172.5 million was
approximately $117.1 million and $97.5 million,
respectively.

Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase
    Plan

Quanta accounts for its stock-based compensation
under APB Opinion No. 25 “Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees.” Under this accounting method, no
compensation expense is recognized in the consolidated
statements of operations if no intrinsic value of the option
exists at the date of grant. In October 1995, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.” SFAS No. 123 encourages companies
to account for stock based compensation awards based on the fair
value of the awards at the date they are granted. The resulting
compensation cost would be shown as an expense in the
consolidated statements of operations. Companies can choose not
to apply the new accounting method and continue to apply current
accounting requirements; however, disclosure is required as to
what net income and earnings per share would have been had the
new accounting method been followed. In addition, Quanta has an


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). SFAS
No. 123 requires the inclusion of stock issued pursuant to
an ESPP.

The fair market value of each option grant is
estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions for 2000,
2001 and 2002, respectively: (i) risk-free interest rates
ranging from 5.18% to 6.62%, 4.64% to 4.84% and 3.45% to 5.27%,
(ii) expected life of 6.0, 7.9 and 6.7 years,
(iii) average volatility of 57.7%, 66.9%, and 144.5%, and
(iv) dividend yield of 0%.

For the ESPP, compensation cost is computed for
the fair value of the employees’ purchase rights, which was
estimated using the Black-Scholes model with the following
assumptions for 2000, 2001 and 2002: dividend yield of 0%; an
expected life of 0.5 years; expected volatility of 69.4%,
66.9% and 109.7% and risk-free interest rates of 6.2%, 4.7% and
1.41%, respectively. The weighted-average fair value of those
purchase rights granted in 2000, 2001 and 2002 was $25.40, $2.51
and $1.91, respectively.

Had compensation costs for the 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan and the ESPP been determined consistent with
SFAS No. 123, Quanta’s net income attributable to
common stock and earnings per share would have been reduced to
the following as adjusted amounts (in thousands, except per
share information):

The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in
the as adjusted disclosure may not be indicative of future
amounts as additional awards in future years are anticipated.
See Note 10 for additional discussion of Quanta’s stock
incentive plans.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In August 2001, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” SFAS No. 144
supersedes SFAS No. 121, “Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be
Disposed Of,” and the accounting and reporting provisions
of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 (APB
Opinion No. 30). SFAS No. 144 addresses the
financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or
disposal of long-lived assets and establishes criteria for
determining when a long-lived asset is held for sale. Quanta
adopted SFAS No. 144 on January 1, 2002, with no
material effect on our consolidated financial position or
results of operations.

In April 2002, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 145, “Rescission of FASB Statements
No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13,
and Technical Corrections.” SFAS No. 145 requires
that gains and losses from extinguishment of debt be classified
as extraordinary items only if they meet the criteria in APB
Opinion No. 30. Applying the provisions of APB
Opinion No. 30 will distinguish transactions that are
part of an entity’s recurring operations from those that
are unusual and infrequent and meet the criteria for
classification as an extraordinary item. SFAS No. 145
is effective for Quanta beginning January 1, 2003. Upon the
adoption of SFAS No. 145, if Quanta records any
extraordinary items related to the extinguishment of


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

debt, Quanta will have to reclassify such items
in its prior period statements of operations to conform to the
presentation required by SFAS No. 145. Under
SFAS No. 145, Quanta will report gains and losses on
the extinguishment of debt, if any, in pre-tax earnings rather
than in extraordinary items.

In July 2002, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated
with Exit or Disposal Activities.” SFAS No. 146
addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs
associated with exit or disposal activities, such as
restructurings, involuntarily terminating employees and
consolidating facilities initiated after December 31, 2002.
Quanta will apply this statement to exit or disposal activities,
if any, beginning in fiscal 2003.

In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others,” which
clarifies the disclosures that are to be made by a guarantor in
its interim and annual financial statements regarding
obligations under certain guarantees issued. FIN 45
requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a
guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation
undertaken in issuing the guarantee. The initial recognition and
measurement provisions of FIN 45 are applicable on a
prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after
December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements of
FIN 45 are effective for financial statements of interim or
annual reports for fiscal years ending after December 15,
2002, which we have adopted. Quanta will adopt the initial
recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 45 on a
prospective basis.

In December 2002, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation — Transition and Disclosure —
an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123.”
SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” to provide
alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the
fair value-based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the
disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require
prominent disclosures in both interim and annual financial
statements about the method of accounting for stock-based
employee compensation and the effect of the method used on
reported results. The transition guidance and annual disclosure
provisions of SFAS No. 148 are effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2002. The interim disclosure provisions are
effective for financial reports containing financial statements
for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002.
Quanta has adopted the disclosure provisions of
SFAS No. 148 in these consolidated financial
statements.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.

PER SHARE INFORMATION:

Earnings (loss) per share amounts are based on
the weighted average number of shares of common stock and common
stock equivalents outstanding during the period. The weighted
average number of shares used to compute basic and diluted
earnings per share for 2000, 2001 and 2002 is illustrated below
(in thousands):

Pursuant to EITF Topic D-95, “Effect of
Participating Convertible Securities on the Computation of Basic
Earnings Per Share,” the impact of the Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock and Series E Preferred Stock
has been included in the computation of basic earnings (loss)
per share and, where applicable, prior period amounts have been
restated accordingly. For the years ended December 31,
2000, 2001 and 2002, stock options for approximately
0.3 million, 3.9 million and 7.9 million shares,
respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the options’ exercise prices
were greater than the average market price of Quanta’s
common stock. For the year ended December 31, 2002, stock
options for approximately 0.1 million shares with exercise
prices lower than the average market price of Quanta’s
common stock were also excluded from the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the effect of including them would be
antidilutive. For the years ended December 31, 2001 and
2002, the effect of assuming conversion of the convertible
subordinated notes would be antidilutive and they were therefore
excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share.

4.

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS:

During 2000 and 2001, Quanta completed
34 acquisitions accounted for as purchases. The aggregate
consideration paid in these transactions consisted of
$407.2 million in cash and 7.1 million shares of
common stock. The following summarized unaudited pro forma
financial information adjusts the historical financial


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

information by assuming the acquisition of the
companies acquired during 2000 and 2001 occurred on
January 1, 2000 (in thousands, except per share
information):

Pro forma adjustments included in the amounts
above primarily relate to: (a) contractually agreed
reductions in salaries and benefits for former owners, and
certain key employees; (b) adjustments to amortization
expense due to the purchase price allocations; (c) an
assumed increase in interest expense in connection with
financing the acquisitions; and (d) the adjustment to the
federal and state income tax provisions based on the combined
operations. The pro forma financial data does not purport to
represent what the Company’s combined financial position or
results of operations would actually have been if such
transactions had in fact occurred on the dates indicated and are
not necessarily representative of Quanta’s financial
position or results of operations for any future period.

During 2002, Quanta completed two acquisitions.
The aggregate consideration paid in these transactions consisted
of $8.0 million in cash, net of cash acquired, and
251,079 shares of common stock. The pro forma effects of
these transactions were not material.

5.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:

Property and equipment consists of the following
(in thousands):


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

6.

DETAIL OF CERTAIN BALANCE SHEET
    ACCOUNTS:

Activity in Quanta’s allowance for doubtful
accounts consists of the following (in thousands):

Accounts payable and accrued expenses consists of
the following (in thousands):

Contracts in progress are as follows (in
thousands):


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

7.

LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS:

Quanta’s long-term debt obligations consist
of the following (in thousands):

Credit Facility

Quanta has a credit facility with 14
participating banks which matures on June 14, 2004. On
August 12, 2002 and December 20, 2002, Quanta amended
the credit facility. As a result of both amendments, the
commitment of the banks under the credit facility was reduced
from $350.0 million to $250.0 million. The commitment
will remain in effect at $250.0 million through
March 31, 2003, then reduce to $225.0 million and
remain in effect at such amount through December 31, 2003.
Effective January 1, 2004, the credit facility will reduce
to $200.0 million and remain in effect at such amount
through maturity of the credit facility on June 14, 2004.
Further, the amendment restricts our ability to borrow an
additional $25.0 million under the credit facility until
Quanta achieves, for two consecutive fiscal quarters beginning
with the fourth quarter of 2002, certain minimum EBITDA (as
defined in the credit facility) requirements. The credit
facility is secured by a pledge of all of the capital stock of
Quanta’s subsidiaries and the majority of Quanta’s
assets and is to provide funds to be used for working capital
and for other general corporate purposes. Quanta’s
subsidiaries guarantee the repayment of all amounts due under
the facility and the facility restricts pledges on all material
assets. Amounts borrowed under the credit facility bear interest
at a rate equal to either (a) the London Interbank Offered
Rate (the 30 day LIBOR rate was 1.38% at December 31,
2002) plus 1.50% to 3.50%, as determined by the ratio of
Quanta’s total funded debt to EBITDA or (b) the
bank’s prime rate (which was 4.25% at December 31,
2002) plus up to 2.00%, as determined by the ratio of
Quanta’s total funded debt to EBITDA. Commitment fees of
0.375% to 0.50%, based on Quanta’s total funded debt to
EBITDA, are due on any unused borrowing capacity under the
credit facility. Quanta’s weighted average borrowing rate
under the credit facility for the year ended December 31,
2002 was 4.88%. The amended credit facility is less restrictive
with respect to certain financial ratios and indebtedness
covenants, including the maximum funded debt to EBITDA ratio,
minimum interest coverage ratios and non-cash impairment charges
under SFAS Nos. 142 and 144. However, the amended credit
facility is more restrictive with respect to Quanta’s
maximum senior debt to EBITDA ratio, capital expenditures and
asset sales, prohibits any stock repurchase programs, and
prohibits acquisitions through May 15, 2003. Additionally,
the amended credit facility prohibits the payment of dividends
and requires a mandatory reduction in the banks’ commitment
by a portion of the proceeds from asset sales in excess of
$5.0 million annually or upon the issuance of additional
debt in excess of $15.0 million. Quanta’s borrowing
availability under the credit facility varies from quarter to
quarter depending upon our degree of compliance with certain
financial ratios. As of December 31, 2002, Quanta had no
outstanding borrowings under the credit facility and
$71.1 million of letters of credit outstanding, which based
upon our senior debt to EBITDA ratio, results in a borrowing
availability of $83.3 million under the credit facility.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Senior Secured Notes

In 2000, Quanta closed a private placement of
$210.0 million principal amount of senior secured notes,
primarily with insurance companies, with maturities currently
ranging from three to eight years. On August 12, 2002 and
December 20, 2002, Quanta amended the senior secured notes
and, as amended, they have financial covenants and restrictions
substantially identical to those of the credit facility and a
weighted average interest rate of 9.91%. In addition, the senior
secured notes carry a make-whole provision customary for this
type of debt instrument on prepayment of principal, including
any mandatory prepayments. Pursuant to an intercreditor
agreement, the senior secured notes rank equally in right of
repayment with indebtedness under Quanta’s credit facility.

Convertible Subordinated Notes

During the third quarter of 2000, Quanta issued
$172.5 million principal amount of convertible subordinated
notes. The convertible subordinated notes bear interest at
4.0% per year and are convertible into shares of
Quanta’s common stock at a price of $54.53 per share,
subject to adjustment as a result of certain events. The
convertible subordinated notes require semi-annual interest
payments beginning December 31, 2000, until the notes
mature on July 1, 2007. Quanta has the option to redeem the
notes beginning July 3, 2003; however, redemption is
currently prohibited by Quanta’s credit facility and senior
secured notes.

The maturities of long-term debt obligations
(excluding capital leases) as of December 31, 2002, are as
follows (in thousands):

See discussion of capital leases in Note 13.

8.

INCOME TAXES:

The components of the provision (benefit) for
income taxes are as follows (in thousands):


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Actual income tax provision (benefit) differs
from the income tax provision (benefit) computed by applying the
U.S. federal statutory corporate rate to the income before
provision for income taxes as follows (in thousands):

Deferred income taxes result from temporary
differences in the recognition of income and expenses for
financial reporting purposes and for tax purposes. The tax
effects of these temporary differences, representing deferred
tax assets and liabilities, result principally from the
following (in thousands):

At December 31, 2002, Quanta has
U.S. federal, state and local tax loss carryforwards, the
tax effect of which is approximately $6.7 million. These
carryforwards will expire as follows: 2005, $0.2 million;
2006, $0.6 million; 2007, $0.9 million and
$5.0 million thereafter. Quanta currently has a
$13.2 million federal income tax receivable as a result of
federal net operating losses incurred during 2002. Quanta
intends to file a carryback claim with the Internal Revenue
Service in 2003. This amount is classified in Prepaid Expenses
and Other Current Assets as of December 31, 2002.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

In assessing the value of deferred tax assets at
December 31, 2002, Quanta considered whether it was more
likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets
would not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax
assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income
during the periods in which those temporary differences become
deductible. Quanta considers the scheduled reversal of deferred
tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax
planning strategies in making this assessment. Based upon these
considerations, Quanta provided a valuation allowance to reduce
the carrying value of certain of its deferred tax assets to
their net expected realizable value at December 31, 2002. A
portion of the valuation allowance was recorded through the
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, as it
related to deferred tax assets recorded as part of the adoption
of SFAS No. 142.

9.

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY:

Series A Convertible Preferred
    Stock

In September 1999, Quanta entered into a
securities purchase agreement with Aquila pursuant to which
Quanta issued 1,860,000 shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock, $.00001 par value per share, for an
initial investment of $186.0 million, before transaction
costs. In September 2000, Aquila converted 7,924,805 shares
of common stock into an additional 1,584,961 shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock at a rate of one share
of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for five shares of
common stock. The holders of the Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock are entitled to receive dividends in cash at a
rate of 0.5% per annum on an amount equal to
$53.99 per share, plus all unpaid dividends accrued. In
addition to the preferred dividend, the holders are entitled to
participate in any cash or non-cash dividends or distributions
declared and paid on the shares of common stock, as if each
share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock had been
converted into common stock at the applicable conversion price
immediately prior to the record date for payment of such
dividends or distributions. However, holders will not
participate in non-cash dividends or distributions if such
dividends or distributions cause an adjustment in the price at
which Series A Convertible Preferred Stock converts into
common stock. At any time after the sixth anniversary of the
issuance of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, if
the closing price per share of Quanta’s common stock is
greater than $20.00, then Quanta may terminate the preferred
dividend. At any time after the sixth anniversary of the
issuance of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, if
the closing price per share of Quanta’s common stock is
equal to or less than $20.00, then the preferred dividend may,
at the option of the holders, be adjusted to the then
“market coupon rate,” which shall equal Quanta’s
after-tax cost of obtaining similar financing, excluding common
stock, to replace the holders investment in Quanta.

Holders are entitled to that number of votes
equal to the number of shares of common stock into which the
outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock
are then convertible on any matter voted on by the holders of
common stock. Subject to certain limitations, holders are
entitled to elect up to three of the total number of directors
of Quanta. All or any portion of the outstanding shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock may, at the option of
the holders, be converted at any time into fully paid and
nonassessable shares of common stock. The conversion price
currently is $20.00, yielding 17,224,805 shares of common
stock upon conversion of all outstanding shares of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock. The conversion price may be
adjusted under certain circumstances.

All remaining outstanding shares of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock were converted into common stock on
February 27, 2003.

Series E Preferred Stock and Redeemable
    Common Stock

On October 15, 2002, First Reserve Fund IX,
L.P. (First Reserve) committed, subject to certain conditions,
to make an investment in Quanta through two transactions. The
first transaction occurred on October 15, 2002, with First
Reserve purchasing from Quanta approximately 8.7 million
shares of newly issued common stock at $3.00 per share, for
a total purchase price of $26.0 million, before transaction
costs.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

After amending certain provisions of
Quanta’s agreements with lenders and senior secured note
holders, the second transaction occurred on December 20,
2002, with First Reserve purchasing from Quanta approximately
2.4 million shares of newly issued Series E Preferred
Stock at $30.00 per share, for an additional investment of
approximately $72.9 million. As part of this transaction
and in exchange for consideration from Quanta of approximately
$2.7 million, Quanta obtained from Aquila certain waivers
of anti-dilution rights, preemptive rights and limitations of
the number of directors on Quanta’s board of directors. At
a special meeting of stockholders held on December 27,
2002, Quanta’s stockholders approved the convertibility of
such Series E Preferred Stock and the conversion of the
shares into common stock. The shares of Series E Preferred
Stock were converted into approximately 24.3 million shares
of Redeemable Common Stock on December 31, 2002.

The original as-converted share price negotiated
with First Reserve for the Series E Preferred Stock on
October 15, 2002 was $3.00 per share which was an
above market price. On December 20, 2002, the date First
Reserve purchased the Series E Preferred Stock,
Quanta’s stock closed at $3.35 per share. Accordingly,
Quanta recorded a non-cash beneficial conversion charge of
$8.5 million based on the $0.35 per share
differential. The non-cash beneficial conversion charge is
recognized as a deemed dividend to the Series E Preferred
Stockholder and is recorded as a decrease to net income
attributable to common stock and an increase in additional
paid-in capital. The non-cash beneficial conversion charge had
no effect on Quanta’s operating income, cash flows or
stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2002.

Through February 20, 2003, First Reserve had
the right to require Quanta to repurchase the shares of common
stock issued as a result of the conversion of the shares of
Series E Preferred Stock for cash if Quanta had a change in
control. As such, the $72.9 million investment has been
reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as Redeemable Common
Stock at December 31, 2002. On February 20, 2003, at
the expiration of this right, the Redeemable Common Stock was
reclassified to stockholders’ equity.

Convertible Subordinated Notes

On June 13, 2000, Aquila converted
Quanta’s $49.4 million of 6 7/8% convertible
subordinated notes into 5.4 million shares of Quanta’s
common stock.

Stockholder Rights Plan

On March 8, 2000, the board of directors
adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan. On November 15, 2001,
the board of directors amended the Stockholder Rights Plan and
on November 18, 2001 and December 1, 2001, the board
of directors ratified such amendments to the Stockholder Rights
Plan. The board of directors also amended the Stockholder Rights
Plan on February 12, March 13 and October 15,
2002. Under the Stockholder Rights Plan, as amended, a dividend
of one preferred share purchase right (a Right) was declared on
each outstanding share of Quanta’s common stock (including
Quanta’s limited vote common stock) and Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock (on an as-converted basis) for
holders of record as of the close of business on March 27,
2000. The Rights also attach to all common stock (including
Quanta’s limited vote common stock) and Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock that become outstanding between
March 27, 2000 and the earliest of the Distribution Date,
the Redemption Date and the Final Expiration Date (as such terms
are defined in the Stockholder Rights Plan). No separate
certificates evidencing the Rights will be issued unless and
until they become exercisable. Each Right has an initial
exercise price of $153.33. The Rights will be exercisable if a
person or group (other than Aquila or First Reserve) becomes the
beneficial owner of 15% or more of the voting power of
Quanta’s common shares, on an as-converted basis. The
Rights also will be exercisable if Aquila or First Reserve,
together with any affiliates or associates, becomes the
beneficial owner of more than 37.71% or 37.00%, respectively, of
the voting power of Quanta’s common stock on an
as-converted basis. Upon a “Flip-In Event” as defined
in the Stockholder Rights Plan, the Rights would be exercisable
for common stock of Quanta at a discount. In addition, the
Rights held by an “Acquiring Person”


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

as defined in the Stockholder Rights Plan will be
void upon a Flip-In Event. The Rights will expire on
March 8, 2010.

The February 12, 2002 amendment provided
that only outstanding shares of Quanta’s common stock and
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are to be counted in
calculating the number of shares that Aquila could acquire while
remaining an exempt person under the Stockholder Rights Plan. As
amended to date, the Stockholder Rights Plan permits Aquila to
beneficially own up to 37.71% of the voting power of
Quanta’s common stock (assuming conversion of all
outstanding shares of Quanta’s Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock).

The March 13, 2002 amendment rendered the
Rights inapplicable to an offer for all outstanding shares of
Quanta’s common stock in a manner that treats all
stockholders equally if upon completion of the offer, the
offeror owns shares of Quanta’s voting stock representing
75% or more of the then outstanding voting stock. The
Stockholder Rights Plan as so amended would also require the
bidder to commit irrevocably to purchase all shares not tendered
at the same price paid to the tendering stockholder.

As part of the settlement of the proxy contest
with Aquila, Quanta agreed with Aquila to amend and restate the
Stockholder Rights Plan (or to adopt a new rights plan) so that
the Rights became exercisable if a person or group (other than
Aquila) became the beneficial owner of 15% of the voting power
of Quanta’s capital stock, assuming conversion, or if
Aquila’s beneficial ownership level in Quanta increased
from 37.71%, assuming conversion. These changes were made in the
October 15, 2002 amendment.

The October 15, 2002 amendment also included
some technical amendments to the Stockholder Rights Plan, and
provided that all of the shares of the Series B and
Series C Preferred Stock previously authorized but unissued
in connection with the Stockholder Rights Plan would be
eliminated and a new class, Series D Junior Participating
Preferred Stock, would be authorized as part of the amendment to
the Stockholders Rights Plan.

The term “assuming conversion” means
assuming conversion of all outstanding equity securities,
whether or not then convertible, other than the Series E
Preferred Stock, and excluding the conversion of outstanding
options, warrants and other similar rights. When used in
reference to First Reserve or any of its transferees, however,
“assuming conversion” means assuming conversion of all
outstanding equity securities, whether or not then convertible,
including the Series E Preferred Stock and including the
conversion of outstanding options, warrants and other similar
rights to acquire equity securities of Quanta.

Limited Vote Common Stock

The shares of Limited Vote Common Stock have
rights similar to shares of common stock, except that such
shares are entitled to elect one member of the board of
directors and are entitled to one-tenth of one vote for each
share held on all other matters. Each share of Limited Vote
Common Stock will convert into common stock upon disposition by
the holder of such shares in accordance with the transfer
restrictions applicable to such shares. In 2001 and 2002,
respectively, 649,674 and 32,488 shares of Limited Vote
Common Stock were converted to common stock.

Treasury Stock

The board of directors of Quanta authorized a
Stock Repurchase Plan under which up to $75.0 million of
Quanta’s common stock could be repurchased. Under the Stock
Repurchase Plan, Quanta could conduct purchases through open
market transactions in accordance with applicable securities
laws. During 2001, Quanta purchased 986,000 shares of
common stock for approximately $15.3 million. On
March 13, 2002, the 986,000 shares of common stock
were sold to Quanta’s Stock Employee Compensation Trust
(SECT), a trust formed in 2002 to fund certain of Quanta’s
future employee benefit obligations using Quanta’s common
stock, and were no longer considered treasury stock. These
shares were subsequently retired on June 28, 2002, after


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Quanta terminated the SECT (See Note 13).
During the second quarter of 2002, Quanta purchased
924,500 shares of its common stock for approximately
$11.7 million under the Stock Repurchase Plan. As of
July 1, 2002, the independent committee of Quanta’s
board of directors determined to cease the Stock Repurchase
Plan. In addition, Quanta acquired into treasury
1,871 shares of previously restricted stock for settlement
of a tax liability pursuant to a deferred compensation
arrangement. As a result of the credit facility and senior
secured notes amendments, any further stock repurchases, other
than those associated with Quanta’s stock incentive plans,
are prohibited.

Restricted Stock

Under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan discussed in
Note 10 below, 72,701 shares of Quanta’s common
stock were issued in 2001 at the fair market value of the common
stock at the date of issuance. The shares of common stock issued
pursuant to the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan are subject to
restrictions on transfer and certain other conditions. During
the restriction period, the plan participants are entitled to
vote and receive dividends on such shares. Upon issuance of the
72,701 shares of Quanta’s common stock pursuant to the
2001 Stock Incentive Plan, an unamortized compensation expense
equivalent to the market value of the shares on the date of
grant was charged to stockholders’ equity and was being
amortized over the six-year restriction period. On
October 31, 2002, 63,614 unvested restricted shares of
this issuance were forfeited and cancelled and the remaining
unamortized deferred compensation expense of $1.6 million
related to this issuance was reversed against additional paid-in
capital.

During 2002, 95,903 shares of Quanta’s
common stock, net of forfeitures, were issued at the fair value
of the common stock at the date of issuance. An unamortized
compensation expense equivalent to the market value of the
shares on the date of grant was charged to stockholders’
equity and is being amortized over the three-year restriction
period of the common stock.

The compensation expense recognized with respect
to all restricted shares during the years ended
December 31, 2001 and 2002, respectively, was approximately
$230,000 and $220,000.

10.

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS:

Stock Incentive Plan

In December 1997, the board of directors adopted,
and the stockholders of Quanta approved, the 1997 Stock Option
Plan. In May 2000, the 1997 Stock Option Plan was amended to
expand the definition of “Stock” to include
Quanta’s Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, common
stock and Limited Vote Common Stock. In May 2001, the 1997 Stock
Option Plan was amended and renamed the 2001 Stock Incentive
Plan. In November 2001, the plan was amended to allow certain
employees to participate. The plan was further amended during
2002 to make explicit the Compensation Committee’s power to
grant shares of restricted stock in exchange for options and to
reduce the aggregate number of shares available for issuance
under the plan from 15% to 12% of the outstanding shares of
Stock. The purpose of the plan is to provide directors, key
employees, officers and certain advisors with additional
incentives by increasing their proprietary interest in Quanta.

The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the
grant of incentive stock options (ISOs) as defined in
Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the Code), nonqualified stock options and restricted
stock (collectively, the Awards). The amount of ISOs that may be
granted under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan is limited to
3,571,275 shares. The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan is
administered by the Compensation Committee of the board of
directors. The Compensation Committee has, subject to the terms
of the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, the sole authority to grant
Awards under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, to construe and
interpret the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan and to make all other
determinations and take any and all actions necessary or
advisable for the administration of the 2001 Stock Incentive
Plan; provided, however,


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

that Quanta’s Chief Executive Officer has
the authority to grant nonqualified stock options to individuals
who are not officers, provided that such grants do not exceed in
any calendar quarter options to
purchase 100,000 shares to all optionees and 20,000 to
any individual.

All of Quanta’s employees (including
officers), non-employee directors and certain consultants and
advisors are eligible to receive Awards under the 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan, but only employees of Quanta are eligible to
receive ISOs. Options will be exercisable during the period
specified in each option agreement and will generally become
exercisable in installments pursuant to a vesting schedule
designated by the Compensation Committee. Unless specifically
provided otherwise in the option agreement, options become
immediately vested and exercisable in the event of a
“change in control” (as defined in the 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan) of Quanta. No option will remain exercisable
later than ten years after the date of grant (or five years in
the case of ISOs granted to employees owning more than 10% of
the voting capital stock).

The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan also provides for
automatic option grants to directors who are not otherwise
employed by Quanta or its subsidiaries. Upon commencement of
service, a non-employee director will receive a non-qualified
option to purchase 15,000 shares of common stock, and
each continuing or re-elected non-employee director annually
will receive an option to purchase 7,500 shares of
common stock. Options granted to non-employee directors are
fully exercisable following the expiration of six months from
the date of grant. The exercise price for ISOs granted under the
2001 Stock Incentive Plan may be no less than the fair market
value of a share of the common stock on the date of grant (or
110% in the case of ISOs granted to employees owning more than
10% of the voting capital stock). No ISOs have been granted as
of December 31, 2002.

The following table summarizes activity under the
2001 Stock Incentive Plan for the years ended December 31,
2000, 2001 and 2002 (shares in thousands):


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Options exercisable are based on term vesting
periods as outlined in each option agreement. Based on
Aquila’s voting interest in Quanta, options to purchase
additional shares of common stock of Quanta may also be
currently exercisable pursuant to the change of control
provisions of certain option agreements.

The following table summarizes information for
outstanding options at December 31, 2002 (shares in
thousands):

On January 21, 2003, Quanta offered eligible
employees and consultants the opportunity to exchange certain
outstanding stock options, with an exercise price of $10.00 or
more, for restricted shares of Quanta’s common stock at an
exchange ratio of one share of restricted stock for every 2.24
option shares tendered. See Note 16 for further discussion.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

An Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the ESPP) was
adopted by the board of directors of Quanta and was approved by
the stockholders of Quanta in May 1999. The purpose of the ESPP
is to provide an incentive for employees of Quanta and any
Participating Company (as defined in the ESPP) to acquire or
increase a proprietary interest in Quanta through the purchase
of shares of Quanta’s common stock. At the date hereof, all
of the existing subsidiaries of Quanta have been designated as
Participating Companies. The ESPP is intended to qualify as an
“Employee Stock Purchase Plan” under Section 423
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). The
provisions of the ESPP are construed in a manner consistent with
the requirements of that section of the Code. The ESPP is
administered by a committee, appointed from time to time, by the
board of directors. The ESPP is not subject to any of the
provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended. During 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively,
Quanta issued a total of 222,364 shares, 462,179 shares and
662,147 shares, respectively pursuant to the ESPP.

11.

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:

Union’s Multi-Employer Pension
    Plans

In connection with its collective bargaining
agreements with various unions, Quanta participates with other
companies in the unions’ multi-employer pension plans.
These plans cover all of Quanta’s employees who are members
of such unions. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments
Act of 1980, imposes certain liabilities upon employers who are


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

contributors to a multi-employer plan in the
event of the employer’s withdrawal from, or upon
termination of such plan. Quanta has no plans to withdraw from
these plans. The plans do not maintain information on the net
assets and actuarial present value of the plans’ unfunded
vested benefits allocable to Quanta, and the amounts, if any,
for which Quanta may be contingently liable, are not
ascertainable at this time.

401(k) Plan

Effective February 1, 1999, Quanta adopted a
401(k) plan pursuant to which employees who are not provided
retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement
may make contributions through a payroll deduction. Quanta will
make a matching cash contribution of 100% of each
employee’s contribution up to 3% of that employee’s
salary and 50% of each employee’s contribution between 3%
and 6% of such employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount
permitted by law. Prior to joining Quanta’s 401(k) plan,
certain subsidiaries of Quanta provided various defined
contribution plans to their employees. Contributions to all
non-union defined contribution plans by Quanta were
approximately $5.9 million, $7.3 million and
$7.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2000,
2001 and 2002, respectively.

12.

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS:

As previously discussed, Aquila has made
investments in Quanta. Quanta has had transactions in the normal
course of business with Aquila. In addition, in September 1999,
Quanta entered into a strategic alliance agreement with Aquila.
Under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement, Aquila will
use Quanta, subject to Quanta’s ability to perform the
required services, as a preferred contractor in outsourced
transmission and distribution infrastructure installation and
maintenance and natural gas distribution, installation and
maintenance in all areas serviced by Aquila, provided that
Quanta provides such services at a competitive cost. The
strategic alliance agreement has a term of six years. Subsequent
to the investment by Aquila, revenues from Aquila in 2000, 2001
and 2002 were approximately $14.4 million,
$17.2 million and $29.7 million, respectively, and
balances due Quanta at year-end were approximately
$1.8 million, $2.4 million and $2.6 million,
respectively. In addition, Quanta performed work for an
affiliate of Aquila with revenues in 2000, 2001 and 2002 of
$4.3 million, $19.3 million and $0.4 million,
respectively, and balances due Quanta at year-end were
approximately $4.1 million, $3.4 million and none,
respectively.

Quanta entered into a management services
agreement in September 1999 with Aquila for advice and services
including financing activities; corporate strategic planning;
research on the restructuring of the electric power industry;
the development, evaluation and marketing of Quanta’s
products, services and capabilities; identification of and
evaluation of potential U.S. acquisition candidates and
other merger and acquisition advisory services; and other
services that Quanta may reasonably request. The management
services agreement required Quanta to make quarterly payments to
Aquila of $2,325,000 through September 30, 2005. In
December 2000, Quanta agreed to conclude its obligations under
the management services agreement with Aquila in exchange for a
one-time payment to Aquila of approximately $28.6 million,
which has been reflected as a special charge during the year
ended December 31, 2000.

Certain of Quanta’s subsidiaries have
entered into related party lease arrangements for operational
facilities. These lease agreements generally have a term of five
years. Related party lease expense for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002, respectively, was
approximately $2.1 million, $2.8 million and
$3.6 million.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

Leases

Quanta leases certain buildings and equipment
under non-cancelable lease agreements including related party
leases as discussed in Note 12. The following schedule
shows the future minimum lease payments under these leases as of
December 31, 2002 (in thousands):

Rent expense related to operating leases was
approximately $16.2 million, $24.1 million and
$31.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2000,
2001 and 2002, respectively. Assets under capital leases are
included as part of property and equipment.

Quanta has guaranteed a residual value on certain
equipment operating leases. Quanta guarantees the difference
between this residual value and the fair market value of the
underlying asset at the date of termination of the leases. At
December 31, 2002, the maximum guaranteed residual value
would have been approximately $123.4 million. Quanta
believes that no significant payments will be made as a result
of the difference between the fair market value of the leased
equipment and the guaranteed residual value. However, there can
be no assurance that future significant payments will not be
required.

Litigation

On November 28, 2001, Aquila filed an
arbitration demand against Quanta challenging the amendment to
Quanta’s Stockholder Rights Plan. As part of the settlement
of Aquila’s proxy contest discussed below, this lawsuit was
dismissed with prejudice on May 21, 2002.

On November 28, 2001, Aquila also filed a
complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery that challenged the
adoption of Quanta’s Stockholder Rights Plan amendment. As
part of the settlement of Aquila’s proxy contest, this
lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice on May 31, 2002.

On December 21, 2001, a purported
stockholder of Quanta filed a putative class action and
derivative complaint alleging that the named directors breached
their fiduciary duties by taking certain actions, including the
Stockholder Rights Plan amendment, in response to the
announcement by Aquila that it intended to acquire control of
Quanta through open market purchases of Quanta’s shares. On
October 31, 2002, the case was dismissed at the request of
the plaintiffs.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

On March 21, 2002, Aquila filed a complaint
in the Delaware Court of Chancery alleging that a special
committee of Quanta’s board of directors breached its
fiduciary duty in connection with the March 13, 2002
adoption of Quanta’s SECT and the employment agreements
entered into with certain of Quanta’s employees. As part of
the settlement of Aquila’s proxy contest, this lawsuit was
dismissed with prejudice on May 30, 2002.

On February 8, 2002, Aquila announced its
intention to conduct a proxy solicitation to replace members of
Quanta’s board of directors with a slate of its own
nominees. On May 20, 2002, Quanta and Aquila announced that
they had reached an agreement for Aquila to terminate its proxy
contest. Under the terms of the settlement, Aquila withdrew all
pending litigation and arbitration against Quanta. The companies
also agreed to a standstill whereby Aquila agreed not to
purchase shares of Quanta’s common stock on the open market
and not to wage another proxy fight for control of Quanta and
Quanta agreed to terminate the SECT. Quanta recorded
approximately $1.1 million and $10.5 million in proxy
costs for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2002,
respectively, which are included in selling, general and
administrative expenses.

In addition, Quanta is from time to time party to
various other lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that
arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions
typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged
personal injury, breach of contract, property damage, punitive
damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or
declaratory relief. With respect to such lawsuits, claims and
proceedings, Quanta accrues reserves when it is probable a
liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be
reasonably estimated. Quanta does not believe that any of these
other proceedings, separately or in the aggregate, would be
expected to have a material adverse effect on Quanta’s
results of operations or financial position.

Derivatives

SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended,
was effective for Quanta on January 1, 2001. These
statements establish accounting and reporting standards
requiring that all derivative instruments be recorded as either
assets or liabilities measured at fair value. These statements
also require that changes in the derivative’s fair value be
recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge
accounting criteria are met.

In October 2001, Quanta entered into a forward
purchase contract (Contract A) with settlements through 2006, in
order to secure pricing on anticipated gas requirements related
to a project in process at December 31, 2001 that was
substantially complete at March 31, 2002. The objective was
to mitigate the variability in the price of natural gas by
securing the price Quanta will have to pay the Contract A
counterparty. On March 29, 2002, Quanta entered into a
sub-services agreement with one of its customers (the
Counterparty Contract) whereby the customer assumed all
obligations associated with Contract A. On November 5,
2002, Contract A was sold for a gain of $0.3 million and
the related Counterparty Contract was terminated.

In April 2002, Quanta entered into another
forward purchase contract (Contract B) with settlements through
March 2003, in order to secure pricing on anticipated gas
requirements related to a project completed during the quarter
ended September 30, 2002. The objective was to mitigate the
variability of the price of natural gas by securing the price
Quanta will have to pay the Contract B counterparty. As of
December 31, 2002, the fair value of Contract B was
approximately $257,000.

Performance Bonds

In certain circumstances, Quanta is required to
provide performance bonds in connection with its contractual
commitments. Quanta has indemnified the surety for any expenses
paid out under these performance bonds. As of December 31,
2002, the total amount of outstanding performance bonds was
approximately $461.0 million.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Contingent Payments

Quanta is subject to an agreement with the former
owners of an operating unit that was acquired in 2000. Under the
terms of this agreement and depending upon the ultimate
profitability of certain contracts obtained by the operating
unit and the collection of the underlying receivables, Quanta
may be required to make additional payments to such former
owners with a combination of common stock and cash. At
December 31, 2002, the amount of additional payments based
on performance to date could equal up to $15.7 million.
This amount may be adjusted significantly higher or lower over
the term of the agreement.

Employment Agreements

Quanta has entered into various employment
agreements with certain executives which provide for
compensation and certain other benefits and for severance
payments under certain circumstances. In addition, certain
employment agreements contain clauses which become effective
upon a change of control of Quanta. Upon any of the defined
events in the various employment agreements, Quanta will pay
certain amounts to the employee, which vary with the level of
the employee’s responsibility.

Other

During the course of its operations, Quanta is
subject to audit by tax authorities for varying periods in
various federal, state and local foreign tax jurisdictions.
Disputes arise during the course of such audits as to facts and
matters of law.

Quanta has indemnified various parties against
specified liabilities that those parties might incur in the
future in connection with companies previously acquired or
disposed of by Quanta. These indemnities usually are contingent
upon the other party incurring liabilities that reach specified
thresholds. As of December 31, 2002, Quanta is not aware of
circumstances that would lead to future indemnity claims against
it for material amounts in connection with these transactions.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

14.

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
    (UNAUDITED):

The table below sets forth the unaudited
consolidated operating results by quarter for the years ended
December 31, 2001 and 2002 (in thousands, except per share
information).

In accordance with FAS 142, the effect of
the adoption is required to be presented in the first interim
period of 2002, irrespective of the period in which the
transitional impairment loss was measured. Accordingly, the
above quarterly financial data has been restated to reflect the
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax,
in the quarter ended March 31, 2002.

The sum of the individual quarterly earnings per
share amounts may not agree with year-to-date earnings per share
as each period’s computation is based on the weighted
average number of shares outstanding during the period.


QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

15.

SEGMENT INFORMATION:

Quanta operates in one reportable segment as a
specialty contractor. Quanta provides comprehensive network
solutions to the electric power, gas, telecommunications and
cable television industries, including designing, installing,
repairing and maintaining network infrastructure. In addition,
Quanta provides ancillary services such as inside electrical
wiring, intelligent traffic networks, cable and control systems
for light rail lines, airports and highways, and specialty rock
trenching, directional boring and road milling for industrial
and commercial customers. Each of these services is provided by
various Quanta subsidiaries and discrete financial information
is not provided to management at the service level. The
following table presents information regarding revenues derived
from the industries noted above.

Quanta does not have significant operations or
long-lived assets in countries outside of the United States.

16.

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS:

On January 21, 2003, Quanta offered eligible
employees and consultants the opportunity to exchange certain
outstanding stock options, with an exercise price of $10.00 or
more, for restricted shares of Quanta’s common stock at an
exchange ratio of one share of restricted stock for every 2.24
option shares tendered. As restricted stock, the shares are
subject to forfeiture and other restrictions until they vest.
Regardless of the vesting schedule of the eligible options
offered for exchange, the restricted stock granted in the offer
vests over three years in equal annual installments on
February 28 of each year, beginning February 28, 2004,
assuming the employee or consultant continues to meet the
requirements for vesting. On March 10, 2003, Quanta
accepted for exchange and canceled eligible options to purchase
an aggregate of 6,769,483 shares of its common stock,
representing approximately 93% of the 7,289,750 options that
were eligible to be tendered in the offer as of the expiration
date. Pursuant to the terms of the offer, Quanta granted
restricted stock representing an aggregate of
3,022,112 shares of its common stock, or approximately
$9.0 million in value, in exchange for the tendered
eligible options. This restricted stock issuance will require
Quanta to recognize a non-cash compensation charge of
approximately $3.0 million per year over the three year
vesting period of the restricted stock. The remaining
520,267 eligible options that were not exchanged will be
required to be accounted for under variable plan accounting. The
weighted average exercise price of these remaining eligible
options is $23.92. In the future, to the extent that
Quanta’s stock price exceeds an option’s exercise
price, the difference will be recorded as a non-cash
compensation charge with an offset to additional paid-in capital.


ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

On June 28, 2002, Quanta dismissed its
former independent public accountants and appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as its new independent public
accountants for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2002.
This determination followed Quanta’s decision to seek
proposals from independent public accountants to audit the
financial statements of Quanta, and was approved by
Quanta’s board of directors upon the recommendation of its
Audit Committee. Prior to the selection of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Arthur Andersen LLP served as the
company’s independent auditors.

Arthur Andersen’s reports on Quanta’s
consolidated financial statements for each of the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 2001 did not contain an adverse
opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor were they qualified or
modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles.

During the years ended December 31, 2000 and
2001 and through June 28, 2002, there were no disagreements
with Arthur Andersen on any matter of accounting principle or
practice, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or
procedure which, if not resolved to Arthur Andersen’s
satisfaction, would have caused them to make reference to the
subject matter in connection with their report on Quanta’s
consolidated financial statements for such years. During the
years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001 and through
June 28, 2002, there were no reportable events of the kind
listed in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K. Quanta
requested that Arthur Andersen furnish a letter addressed to the
Securities and Exchange Commission stating whether or not they
agreed with the statements made in the Form 8-K filed on
July 8, 2002. A letter was received from Arthur Andersen
that corroborated the statements contained in the Form 8-K
and was filed with the Form 8-K and incorporated by
reference into this Form 10-K as exhibit 16.1.

During the years ended December 31, 2000 and
2001 and through June 28, 2002, Quanta did not consult with
PricewaterhouseCoopers regarding any of the matters or events
set forth in Item 304(a)(2)(i) or (ii) of
Regulation S-K.

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

The information required by Item 10 is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in
Quanta’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 11 is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in
Quanta’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management

The information required by Item 12 is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in
Quanta’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

The information required by Item 13 is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in
Quanta’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2003 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 14.

Controls and Procedures

Within the 90 days prior to the date of this
report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including our Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of Quanta’s
disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 15d-14. Based upon that evaluation, our Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that our disclosure controls and procedures were


effective. There have been no significant changes
in our internal controls or other factors that could
significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of
our evaluation.

PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
    and Reports on Form 8-a)

The following financial statements, schedules and
exhibits are filed as part of this Report

(1) Financial Statements. Reference is made
to the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on
page      of this Report.

(2) All schedules are omitted because they
are not applicable or the required information is shown in the
financial statements or the notes to the financial statements.

(3) Exhibits





*

Management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:

(1) Quanta filed a Form 8-K on
    July 8, 2002 in which it reported changes in its certifying
    accountants.


(2) Quanta filed a Form 8-K on
    October 22, 2002 in which it reported the purchase of
    common stock of the Company by First Reserve Fund IX, L.P.

(3) Quanta filed a Form 8-K on
    December 11, 2002 in which it reported amending the
    Securities Purchase Agreement dated October 15, 2002
    between Quanta and First Reserve.

(4) Quanta filed a Form 8-K on
    December 24, 2002 in which it reported the purchase of
    Series E Preferred Stock of the Company by First Reserve.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Quanta
Services, Inc. has duly caused this Report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the
City of Houston, State of Texas, on March 28, 2003.

QUANTA SERVICES, INC.

By

/s/ JOHN R. COLSON

John R. Colson

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed by the
following persons in the capacities indicated on March 28,
2003.


CERTIFICATIONS

I, John R. Colson, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
Form 10-K of Quanta Services, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this
annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether
there were significant changes in internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
and material weaknesses.

By:

/s/ JOHN R. COLSON

John R. Colson,

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Date: March 28, 2003


I, James H. Haddox, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on
Form 10-K of Quanta Services, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report
does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
in light of the circumstances under which such statements were
made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
annual report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial
statements, and other financial information included in this
annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual
report;

4. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a. designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b. evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c. presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):

a. all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b. any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6. The registrant’s other certifying
officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether
there were significant changes in internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
and material weaknesses.

By:

/s/ JAMES H. HADDOX

James H. Haddox,

Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 28, 2003


INDEX TO EXHIBITS

*

Management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements