10-K


h13605e10vk.htm

QUANTA SERVICES, INC. - DATED 12/31/2003

e10vk


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Commission file number 1-13831

Quanta Services, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Delaware

74-2851603

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

1360 Post Oak Boulevard,
Suite 2100

Houston, Texas 77056

(Address of principal executive offices,
including ZIP Code)

(713) 629-7600

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days:     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statement incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).     Yes

þ

No

o

As of March 9, 2004, the aggregate market
value of the Common Stock and Limited Vote Common Stock of the
Registrant held by non-affiliates of the Registrant, based on
the last sale price of the Common Stock on such date, was
approximately $455.7 million and $1.8 million,
respectively (for purposes of calculating these amounts, only
directors, officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the
outstanding capital stock of the Registrant have been deemed
affiliates).

As of March 9, 2004, the number of shares of
the Common Stock of the Registrant outstanding was 115,485,267.
As of the same date, 1,051,067 shares of Limited Vote
Common Stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Form 10-K.

QUANTA SERVICES, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

For the Year Ended December 31,

INDEX

i


PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

General

Quanta is a leading provider of specialized
contracting services, offering end-to-end network solutions to
the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
industries. Our comprehensive services include designing,
installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure.
Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31,
2003 were $1.6 billion, of which 60% was attributable to
electric power and gas customers, 15% to telecommunications
customers, 7% to cable television operators and 18% to ancillary
services, such as inside electrical wiring, intelligent traffic
networks, cable and control systems for light rail lines,
airports and highways, and specialty rock trenching, directional
boring and road milling for industrial and commercial customers.
We were organized in the state of Delaware in 1997 and since
that time have made strategic acquisitions to expand our
geographic presence, generate operating synergies with existing
businesses and develop new capabilities to meet our
customers’ evolving needs.

We currently have offices that provide services
nationwide, giving us the presence and capability to quickly,
reliably and effectively complete projects throughout the United
States. We work for many of the leading companies in the
industries we serve.

Representative customers include:

•

Adelphia Communications

•

Alabama Power

•

Alltel

•

AT&T

•

CenterPoint Energy

•

Century Telephone

•

Comcast

•

Entergy

•

Ericsson

•

Georgia Power Company

•

Illinois Power

•

Intermountain Rural Electric

•

Pacific Gas & Electric

•

Puget Sound Energy

•

San Diego Gas & Electric

•

Southern California Edison

Our reputation for responsiveness, performance,
geographic reach and a comprehensive service offering has also
enabled us to develop strong strategic alliances with numerous
customers.

Industry Overview

We believe the following trends are impacting
demand for our services:

Increasing Need to Upgrade Electric Power
Transmission and Distribution
Networks.

We believe that the aging of
many electric power networks may require increased investment in
electric power transmission and distribution networks, and that
concerns about power quality and reliability should result in
increased investment in transmission and distribution
infrastructure. Additionally, as the selling of electricity
increases across regional networks, capacity and reliability
will become even more important.

Improving Customer Balance Sheets Leads to
Increased Capital Expenditures.

We
believe that as our customers continue to improve their balance
sheets, both capital spending and maintenance budgets will
stabilize and move toward historical levels during 2004. During
the last three years, the telecommunications and cable
television industries suffered a severe downturn that resulted
in a number of companies, including several of our customers,
filing for bankruptcy protection or experiencing financial
difficulties. The downturn has adversely affected capital
expenditures for infrastructure projects even among companies
that are not experiencing financial difficulties. We expect that
during 2004 telecom capital expenditures will continue to
stabilize with a possible increase. We also anticipate
increasing capital expenditures from our wireless and central
office installations customers in 2004 as they strive to meet
the ever increasing demand for bandwidth at home and in offices
throughout the nation.

In the electric power and natural gas industries,
our customers continue to be restrained by limited capital
spending, uncertain regulatory progress and competition. While
the blackout in the Northeast brought the



state of the U.S. transmission grid to the
forefront, there has been little regulatory progress or other
efforts to map out methods to pay for the upgrades, determine
accountability or provide incentives to utilities for
infrastructure enhancements to address the bottlenecks and
dilapidated systems.

Increased
Outsourcing.

Financial and economic
pressures on electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable
television providers have caused an increased focus by providers
on core competencies and, accordingly, an increase in
outsourcing of network services. Total employment at investor
owned utilities has declined dramatically in the last decade
due, in part, to increased outsourcing. The movement from a
regulated business environment to an environment exposed to
market forces has led our customers to increase outsourcing of
non-core activities, particularly network development.
Outsourcing network services can reduce costs, provide
flexibility in budgets and improve service and performance for
many of our customers.

Increased Demand for Comprehensive End-to-End
Solutions.

We believe that electric
power, gas, telecommunications and cable television companies
will continue to seek service providers who can rapidly and
effectively design, install and maintain their networks. The
strategic and financial value to these companies of
geographically expanded and technologically improved networks
has caused them to seek quick and reliable, yet cost effective,
network solutions within increasingly challenging scale, time
and complexity constraints. Accordingly, they are partnering
with proven full-service network providers with broad geographic
reach, financial capability and technical expertise.

Strategy

The key elements of our strategy are:

Focus on Expanding Operating
Efficiencies.

We intend to continue to:

Focus on Internal Growth and
Integration.

We believe we can improve
our internal revenue growth by providing our customers
comprehensive end-to-end solutions for their infrastructure
needs. Our operating units cooperate to spread their best
practices and innovative technology and also share equipment and
human resources, which positions each operating unit to deepen
its relationship with current customers and develop
relationships with new customers

Expand Portfolio of Services to Meet
Customers’ Evolving Needs.

We
continue to offer an expanding portfolio of services that allows
us to develop, build and maintain networks on both a regional
and national scale and adapt to our customers’ changing
needs. We intend to expand further our geographic and
technological capabilities through both internal development and
innovation and through selective acquisitions.

Pursue New Opportunities for
Growth.

We have established a new
subsidiary, Quanta Government Solutions (QGS), that will
leverage our core expertise to pursue additional opportunities
in the government arena. QGS was formed to respond, as prime
contractor, to requests for proposals from the United States
government for power and communications infrastructure projects
in the United States and overseas.



Services

We design, install and maintain networks for the
electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
industries as well as commercial, industrial and governmental
entities. The following provides an overview of the types of
services we provide:

Electric Power and Gas Network
Services.

We provide a variety of
end-to-end services to the electric power and gas industries,
including:

Telecommunications Network
Services.

Our telecommunications
network services include:



Cable Television Network
Services.

The network services we
provide to the cable television industry include:

Ancillary Services.

We provide a variety of comprehensive ancillary services to
commercial, industrial and governmental entities, including:

Foreign Operations.

We derived $8.5 million and $15.1 million of our
revenues from foreign operations during the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2003. We had no material foreign
operations in 2001.

Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred
Provider Relationships

Our customers include electric power, gas,
telecommunications and cable television companies, as well as
commercial, industrial and governmental entities. Our 10 largest
customers accounted for 29.4% of our consolidated revenues in
2003. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 6% of our
consolidated revenues for the year ended 2003.

Although we have a centralized marketing
strategy, management at each of our operating units is
responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term
relationships with customers. Our management is incented to
cross-sell services of other operating units to their customers.
In addition, our business development group promotes and markets
our services for prospective large national accounts and
projects that would require services from multiple business
units.

Many of our customers and prospective customers
have qualification procedures for approved bidders or vendors
based upon the satisfaction of particular performance and safety
standards set by the customer. These customers typically
maintain a list of vendors meeting these standards and award
contracts for individual jobs only to those vendors. We strive
to maintain our status as a preferred or qualified vendor to
these customers.

We believe that our strategic relationships with
large providers of electric power and telecommunications
services will offer opportunities for future growth. Many of
these strategic relationships take the form of a strategic
alliance or long-term maintenance agreement. Strategic alliance
agreements generally state an intention to work together and
many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. Strategic
alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically
agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four
years that may include an option to add a one to two year
extension at the end of the initial term. Certain of our
strategic alliance and long-term maintenance agreements are
“evergreen” contracts with exclusivity clauses
providing that we will be awarded all contracts, or a right of
first refusal, for a certain type of work or in a certain
geographic region. None of these contracts, however, guarantees
a specific dollar amount of work to



be performed by us. Certain of our strategic
alliances and long-term maintenance relationships are listed in
the following table:

Backlog

Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we
expect to realize from work to be performed over the next twelve
months on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual
agreements on which work has not begun. Our backlog at
December 31, 2002 and 2003 was approximately
$980.0 million and $1.0 billion. In many instances,
our customers are not contractually committed to specific
volumes of services under our long-term maintenance contracts
and many of our contracts may be terminated with notice. There
can be no assurance as to our customer’s requirements or
that our estimates are accurate.

Competition

The markets in which we operate are highly
competitive. We compete with other independent contractors in
most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several
of our competitors are large domestic companies that may have
greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do.
In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into
some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any
organization that has adequate financial resources and access to
technical expertise may become a competitor. A significant
portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or
fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor
in the award of such agreements. Accordingly, we could be
underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such
business. We believe that as demand for our services increases,
customers will increasingly consider other factors in choosing a
service provider, including technical expertise and experience,
financial and operational resources, nationwide presence,
industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to
benefit contractors such as us. There can be no assurance,
however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise,
experience and resources to provide services that are superior
in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be
able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We may
also face competition from the in-house service organizations of
our existing or prospective customers, including electric power,
gas, telecommunications and cable television companies, which
employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services
as those provided by us. Although a significant portion of these
services is currently outsourced by our customers, there can be
no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will
continue to outsource services in the future.



Employees

As of December 31, 2003, we had
1,476 salaried employees, including executive officers,
project managers or engineers, job superintendents, staff and
clerical personnel and 9,741 hourly employees, the number
of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the
projects we undertake at any particular time. Approximately 43%
of our employees at December 31, 2003, were covered by
collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW). Under
our agreements with our unions, we agree to pay specified wages
to our union employees, observe certain workplace rules and make
employee benefit payments to multi-employer pension plans and
employee benefit trusts rather than administering the funds on
behalf of these employees. These collective bargaining
agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. The majority
of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that
prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified
negotiation periods relating to agreement renewal, and provide
for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of
prolonged disagreement.

We provide a health, welfare and benefit plan for
employees who are not covered by collective bargaining
agreements. We have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which
eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits
through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions
through a payroll deduction. We make matching cash contributions
of 100% of each employee’s contribution up to 3% of that
employee’s salary and 50% of each employee’s
contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee’s salary,
up to the maximum amount permitted by law. We also have an
employee stock purchase plan that provides that eligible
employees may contribute up to 10% of their cash compensation,
not to exceed $21,250 annually, toward the semi-annual
purchase of our common stock at a discounted price. Over
870 of our employees participated in the employee stock
purchase plan during the year ended December 31, 2003.

Our industry is experiencing a shortage of
journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. In response to
the shortage, we seek to take advantage of various IBEW and
National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) referral
programs and hire graduates from the joint IBEW/ NECA
apprenticeship program which trains qualified electrical workers.

We believe our relationships with our employees
and union representatives are good.

Training, Quality Assurance and
Safety

Performance of our services requires the use of
equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous.
Although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and
prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to
claims by employees, customers and third parties for property
damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our
services. Our policies require that employees complete the
prescribed training and service program of the operating unit
for which they work in addition to those required, if
applicable, by the IBEW and NECA prior to performing more
sophisticated and technical jobs. For example, all journeyman
linemen are required by the IBEW and NECA to complete a minimum
of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately
200 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and
certification. Each operating unit requires additional training,
depending upon the sophistication and technical requirements of
each particular job. We have established company-wide training
and educational programs, as well as comprehensive safety
policies and regulations, by sharing “best practices”
throughout our operations.



Regulation

Our operations are subject to various federal,
state and local laws and regulations including:

We believe that we have all the licenses required
to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial
compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure
to comply with applicable regulations could result in
substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses.

Risk Management, Insurance and
Performance Bonds

The primary risks in our operations are bodily
injury and property damage. We are insured for employer’s
liability and general liability claims, subject to a deductible
of $1,000,000 per occurrence, and for auto liability and
workers’ compensation insurance subject to a deductible of
$2,000,000 per occurrence. We also have a corporate
non-union employee related health care benefit plan that is
subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year.
Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our
estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an
estimate of claims incurred but not reported. However, insurance
liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to the many
relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown,
including the severity of an injury, the determination of our
liability in proportion to other parties, the number of
incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety
program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical
trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate.

Contracts in the industries we serve may require
performance bonds or other means of financial assurance to
secure contractual performance. The current market for
performance bonds is limited. If we were unable to obtain surety
bonds or letters of credit in sufficient amounts or at
acceptable rates, we might be precluded from entering into
additional contracts with certain of our customers.

Website Access

Our website address is www.quantaservices.com.
You may obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports in
our Investor Center under the heading “SEC Filings”.
These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish
them to, the SEC. In addition, our corporate governance
guidelines, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters
of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating
and Governance Committee are or, prior to our 2004 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, will be posted on our website under the
heading “Corporate Governance.” We intend to disclose
any amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct on our website. You may obtain free copies of these
items from our website or by contacting our Corporate Secretary.

Risk Factors

Our business is subject to a variety of risks,
including the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones facing our company.
Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not
described below may also impair our business operations. If any
of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial
condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may
not be able to achieve our goals. This Annual Report also
includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations,
projections, intentions, or beliefs about future events that are
intended as “forward-looking statements” under



the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled

“Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and
Information.”

Our operating results may vary significantly
from quarter to quarter.

We experience
lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to
lower demand for our services and more difficult operating
conditions. Additionally, our quarterly results may also be
materially and adversely affected by:

Accordingly, our operating results in any
particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you
can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year.

An economic downturn may lead to less demand
for our services.

If the general level
of economic activity remains slow or deteriorates further, our
customers may delay or cancel new projects. The
telecommunications and utility markets experienced substantial
change during 2002 as evidenced by an increased number of
bankruptcies in the telecommunications market, continued
devaluation of many of our customers’ debt and equity
securities and pricing pressures resulting from challenges faced
by major industry participants. These factors have contributed
to the delay and cancellation of projects and reduction of
capital spending that have impacted our operations and ability
to grow at historical levels. A number of other factors,
including financing conditions for and potential bankruptcies in
the industries we serve, could adversely affect our customers
and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in
the future or pay for past services. In addition, consolidation,
competition or capital constraints in the electric power, gas,
telecommunications or cable television industries may result in
reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our
customers.

Our dependence upon fixed price contracts
could adversely affect our business.

We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a
portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. We must
estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for
fixed price contracts. The cost of labor and materials, however,
may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These
variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed
price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for
a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could
result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending
upon the size of a particular project, variations from the
estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our
operating results for any fiscal quarter or year.

Our industry is highly
competitive.

Our industry is served by
numerous small, owner-operated private companies, a few public
companies and several large regional companies. In addition,
relatively few barriers prevent entry into some of our
industries. As a result, any organization that has adequate
financial resources



and access to technical expertise may become one
of our competitors. Competition in the industry depends on a
number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors
may have lower overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be
able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able
to provide. In addition, some of our competitors have greater
resources than we do. We cannot be certain that our competitors
will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to
provide services that are superior in both price and quality to
our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be
able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our
industry or maintain a customer base at current levels. We may
also face competition from the in-house service organizations of
our existing or prospective customers. Electric power, gas,
telecommunications and cable television service providers
usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of
services we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or
prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the
future.

We may incur liabilities relating to
occupational health and safety
matters.

Our operations are subject to
extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of
safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and
will continue to invest, substantial resources in our
occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a
high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance
that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we
have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have
suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional
fatalities in the future. Claims for damages to persons,
including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result
in substantial costs and liabilities.

The industries we serve are subject to rapid
technological and structural changes that could reduce the
demand for the services we provide.

The electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of
technological advances that could, in certain cases, reduce the
demand for our services or otherwise negatively impact our
business. New or developing technologies could displace the
wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions,
and improvements in existing technology may allow
telecommunications and cable television companies to
significantly improve their networks without physically
upgrading them.

Failure to obtain or maintain necessary
performance bonds could adversely affect our
business.

Contracts in the industries
we serve often require performance bonds or other means of
financial assurance to secure contractual performance. During
2002 and 2003, the market for performance bonds tightened
significantly. If we are unable to obtain performance bonds or
letters of credit in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms,
we might be precluded from entering into additional contracts
with certain of our customers. Management believes that our
current surety arrangements will satisfy all of our bonding
needs for the foreseeable future, but there can be no assurance
that such surety arrangements will be sufficient to satisfy all
of our future bonding needs

Many of our contracts may be canceled on short
notice, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts if
they are cancelled or as they are completed or
expire.

We could experience a decrease
in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following
occur:

Many of our customers may cancel our contracts on
short notice, typically 30-90 days, even if we are not in
default under the contract. Certain of our customers assign work
to us on a project-by-project basis under master service
agreements. Under these agreements, our customers often have no
obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. Our
operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume
of work is not assigned to us. Many of our contracts, including
our master service contracts, are opened to public bid at the
expiration of their terms. There can be no assurance that we
will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that
come up for bid.



We are self-insured against potential
liabilities.

Although we maintain
insurance policies with respect to automobile, general
liability, workers’ compensation and employers’
liability, those policies are subject to deductibles of
$1,000,000 to $2,000,000 per occurrence, and we are
primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the
amount of the applicable deductible. We also maintain a
non-union employee related health care benefit plan that is
subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year.
Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our
estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an
estimate of claims incurred but not reported. However, insurance
liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown
factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination
of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of
incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety
program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs
above our estimates, our business could be materially and
adversely affected.

The departure of key personnel could disrupt
our business.

We depend on the
continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior
management of the businesses we acquire. Although we have
entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three
years with most of our executive officers and certain other key
employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will
continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The
loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain
qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to
manage our business. We do not carry key-person life insurance
on any of our employees.

Our unionized workforce could adversely affect
our operations and our ability to complete future
acquisitions.

As of December 31,
2003, approximately 43% of our employees were covered by
collective bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these
agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be
certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the
future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our
relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose
business and decrease our revenue. In addition, our ability to
complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because
of our union status for a variety of reasons. For instance, our
union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements
of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not
want to become affiliated with a union based company.

Our business is labor intensive, and we may be
unable to attract and retain qualified
employees.

Our ability to maintain our
productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to
employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our
requirements. We may experience shortages of qualified
journeyman linemen. We cannot be certain that we will be able to
maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate
efficiently and to support our growth strategy or that our labor
expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the
supply of these skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased
labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or
grow our revenues.

Our business growth could outpace the
capability of our corporate management
infrastructure.

We cannot be certain
that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our
operations as they expand. Future growth also could impose
significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior
management, including the need to recruit and integrate new
senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that
we can recruit and retain such additional managers and
executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our
growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain
additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand
our operations or execute our business plan.

We could have potential exposure to
environmental liabilities.

Our
operations are subject to various environmental laws and
regulations, including those dealing with the handling and
disposal of waste products, PCBs, fuel storage and air quality.
As a result of past and future operations at our facilities, we
may be required to incur environmental remediation costs and
other cleanup expenses. In addition, we cannot be certain that
we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential
environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business,
property or assets.

Opportunities within the government arena
could lead to increased governmental regulation applicable to
Quanta and unrecoverable start up
costs.

Most government contracts are
awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. As we
pursue increased opportunities in the government arena
management’s



focus associated with the start up and bidding
process may be diverted away from other opportunities. If we
were to be successful in being awarded government contracts, a
significant amount of costs could be required before any
revenues were realized from these contracts. In addition, as a
government contractor we would be subject to a number of
procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any
deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a
loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and
investigate government contractors. Government agencies may
review a contractor’s performance under its contracts,
costs structure, and compliance with applicable laws,
regulations and standards. If government agencies determine
through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly
allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the
contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to
refund previously reimbursed costs. Moreover, our internal
controls may not prevent improper conduct. If government
agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may
be subject to civil and criminal penalties. We also could
experience serious harm to our reputation. Many government
contracts must be appropriated each year. If appropriations are
not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the
potential revenues from any awarded contracts.

We may not be successful in meeting the
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
has introduced many new requirements applicable to Quanta
regarding corporate governance and financial reporting. Among
many other requirements is the requirement under
Section 404 of the Act, beginning with the 2004 Annual
Report, for management to report on the Company’s internal
controls over financial reporting and for Quanta’s
independent public accountants to attest to this report. During
2003, the Company commenced actions to ensure its ability to
comply with these requirements, including but not limited to,
the engaging of outside experts to assist in the evaluation of
our controls, additional staffing requirements of our internal
audit department and documentation of existing controls. In
addition, the Company expects to continue to devote substantial
time and incur substantial costs during 2004 to ensure
compliance. There can no assurance what we will be successful in
complying with Section 404. Failure to do so could result
in the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of
customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the
requirements.

We may not have access in the future to
sufficient funding to finance desired
growth.

If we cannot secure additional
financing in the future on acceptable terms, we may be unable to
support our growth strategy. We cannot readily predict the
ability of certain customers to pay for past services or the
timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. Using cash
for acquisitions limits our financial flexibility and makes us
more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or
equity financings. Our existing debt agreements contain
significant restrictions on our operational and financial
flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt, and
if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional
covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility.
When we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be
certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us
on terms acceptable to us or at all.

We may be unsuccessful at generating internal
growth.

Our ability to generate
internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our
ability to:

In addition, our customers may reduce the number
or size of projects available to us due to their inability to
obtain capital or pay for services provided. Many of the factors
affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond
our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will
be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow
sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal
growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve
internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business.



Our results of operations could be adversely
affected as a result of goodwill
impairments.

When we acquire a
business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal
to the excess amount we pay for the business, including
liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and
intangible assets of the business we acquire. Through
December 31, 2001, pursuant to generally accepted
accounting principles, we amortized this goodwill over its
estimated useful life of 40 years following the
acquisition, which directly impacted our earnings. The Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 which
provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have
indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be
tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets
that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized
over their useful lives. SFAS No. 142 also provides
specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized
intangible assets for impairment. SFAS No. 142
requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions to
allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair
value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including,
among other things, an assessment of market conditions,
projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and
growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported
value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is
determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow,
market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches.
Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment
tests annually during the fourth quarter. Future impairments, if
any, will be recognized as operating expenses.

We may be unsuccessful at integrating
companies that we either have acquired or that we may acquire in
the future.

We cannot be sure that we
can successfully integrate our acquired companies with our
existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other
operational or financial problems. If we do not implement proper
overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy
could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices
at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could
be adversely affected. Integrating our acquired companies
involves a number of special risks which could have a negative
impact on our business, financial condition and results of
operations, including:

If one of our acquired companies suffers customer
dissatisfaction or performance problems, the reputation of our
entire company could suffer.

First Reserve’s investment in us may
result in potential conflicts of interest with, or dilution of,
existing stockholders.

First Reserve
Fund IX, L.P. (First Reserve) owned approximately 33.8% of
the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 9,
2004. By reason of such stock ownership, conflicts of interest
may arise in the future between us and First Reserve and its
affiliates with respect to, among other things, issuances of
additional shares of voting securities or the payment of
dividends. There are no contractual or other restrictions on the
ability of First Reserve or its affiliates to pursue other
investment opportunities in any of the industries we serve. In
addition, First Reserve may have interests that could be in
conflict with those of the holders of our convertible
subordinated notes or other stockholders.

You are unlikely to be able to seek remedies
against Arthur Andersen LLP, our former independent
auditor.

Our consolidated financial
statements for the fiscal years ended prior to December 31,
2002 were audited by Arthur Andersen LLP, our former independent
auditor. In June 2002 Arthur Andersen LLP was convicted of
federal obstruction of justice charges in connection with its
destruction of documents. As a result of its conviction, Arthur
Andersen LLP has ceased operations and is no longer in a
position to reissue its audit reports or to provide consent to
include financial statements reported on by it in this
prospectus. Because Arthur Andersen LLP has not reissued its
reports and because we are not able to obtain a consent from
Arthur Andersen LLP, you will have no effective remedy against
Arthur Andersen LLP in connection with their role



as our independent public accountants for the
period covered by its previously issued reports. Even if you
have a basis for asserting a remedy against, or seeking to
recover from, Arthur Andersen LLP, we believe that it is
unlikely that you would be able to recover damages from Arthur
Andersen LLP.

Certain provisions of our corporate governing
documents could make an acquisition of our company more
difficult.

The following provisions of
our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in
effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law,
could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or
prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that
investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our
common stock:

ITEM 2.

Properties

Facilities

We lease our corporate headquarters in Houston,
Texas and maintain offices nationwide. This space is used for
offices, equipment yards, warehousing, storage and vehicle
shops. We own 31 of the facilities we occupy, all of which are
encumbered by our credit facility, and we lease the rest. We
believe that our existing facilities are sufficient for our
current needs.

Equipment

We operate a fleet of owned and leased trucks and
trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment,
such as backhoes, excavators, trenchers, generators, boring
machines, cranes, wire pullers and tensioners. As of
December 31, 2003, the total size of the rolling-stock
fleet was approximately 19,700 units. Most of this fleet is
serviced by our own mechanics who work at various maintenance
sites and facilities. We believe that these vehicles generally
are well maintained and adequate for our present operations.

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are from time to time a party to various
lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the
ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among
other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach
of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties
or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With
respect to such lawsuits, claims, and proceedings, we accrue
reserves when it is probable a liability has been incurred and
the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We do not expect
the outcome of any of these proceedings, separately or in the
aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or financial position.



PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Stock
    and Related Stockholder Matters

We initially offered our common stock to the
public on February 12, 1998, at a price of $6.00 per
share. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PWR.” The
following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our
common stock per quarter, as reported by the NYSE, for the two
most recent fiscal years.

On March 9, 2004, there were 1,032 holders
of record of our common stock and 24 holders of record of our
Limited Vote Common Stock. There is no established trading
market for the Limited Vote Common Stock; however, the Limited
Vote Common Stock converts into common stock immediately upon
sale.

Dividends

We currently intend to retain our future
earnings, if any, to finance the growth, development and
expansion of our business. Accordingly, we do not currently
intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock
in the immediate future. The declaration, payment and amount of
future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our
board of directors after taking into account various factors.
These factors include our financial condition, results of
operations, cash flows from operations, current and anticipated
capital requirements and expansion plans, the income tax laws
then in effect and the requirements of Delaware law. In
addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility and
convertible subordinated notes include limitations on the
payment of cash dividends without the consent of the respective
lenders.

Recent Sales of Unregistered
Securities

On October 21, 2003 and October 24,
2003, we sold $225 million and $45 million principal
amount of our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes due 2023
to Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., in a private placement pursuant to
Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, the notes
will be convertible into shares of common stock at an initial
rate of 89.7989 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal
amount of notes (or a conversion price of approximately
$11.14 per share of common stock). These securities were
registered subsequent to issuance.



ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data

The following historical selected financial data
has been derived from the audited financial statements of the
company. The historical financial statement data represents the
financial position and results of operations of a company
acquired in a pooling transaction in 1999 and reflects the
acquisitions of businesses accounted for as purchase
transactions as of their respective acquisition dates. The
historical selected financial data should be read in conjunction
with the historical Consolidated Financial Statements and
related notes thereto included in Item 8 “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.”

(a)

In June 1999, as a result of the termination of
    an Employee Stock Ownership Plan associated with a company
    acquired in a pooling transaction, we incurred a non-cash
    compensation charge of $5.3 million



The consolidated financial statements for the
years ended December 31, 1999 through 2001, were audited by
Arthur Andersen LLP (Andersen), which has ceased operations. A
copy of the report previously issued by Andersen on our
financial statements as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and
for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2001, is included in Item 8 of this
Form 10-K. Such report has not been reissued by Andersen.



ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our
financial condition and results of operations should be read in
conjunction with our historical consolidated financial
statements and related notes thereto in Item 8
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The
discussion below contains forward-looking statements that are
based upon our current expectations and are subject to
uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may
differ materially from these expectations due to inaccurate
assumptions and known or unknown risks and uncertainties,
including those identified in “Uncertainty of
Forward-Looking Statements and Information.”

Introduction

We derive our revenues from one reportable
segment by providing specialized contracting services and
offering comprehensive network solutions. Our customers include
electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental
entities. We had consolidated revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2003 of $1.6 billion, of which 60% was
attributable to electric power and gas customers, 15% to
telecommunications customers, 7% to cable television operators
and 18% to ancillary services, such as inside electrical wiring,
intelligent traffic networks, cable and control systems for
light rail lines, airports and highways, and specialty rock
trenching, directional boring and road milling for industrial
and commercial customers.

We enter into contracts principally on the basis
of competitive unit price or fixed price bids, the final terms
and prices of which we frequently negotiate with the customer.
Although the terms of our contracts vary considerably, most are
made on either a unit price or fixed price basis in which we
agree to do the work for a price per unit of work performed
(unit price) or for a fixed amount for the entire project (fixed
price). We also perform services on a cost-plus or time and
materials basis. We complete a substantial majority of our fixed
price projects within one year, while we frequently provide
maintenance and repair work under open-ended, unit price or
cost-plus master service agreements which are renewable
annually. Some of our customers require us to post performance
and payment bonds upon execution of the contract, depending upon
the nature of the work to be performed.

Cost of services consists primarily of salaries,
wages and benefits to employees, depreciation, fuel and other
vehicle expenses, equipment rentals, subcontracted services,
insurance, facilities expenses, materials and parts and
supplies. Our gross margin, which is gross profit expressed as a
percentage of revenues, is typically higher on projects where
labor, rather than materials, constitute a greater portion of
the cost of services. We seek higher margins on our
labor-intensive projects because we can predict materials costs
more accurately than labor costs. Operating margins could be
impacted by fluctuations in insurance accruals related to our
deductibles in the period in which such adjustments are made. As
of December 31, 2003, we had a deductible of
$1,000,000 per occurrence related to employer’s
liability and general liability claims and a deductible of
$2,000,000 per occurrence for automobile liability and
workers’ compensation insurance. We also have a non-union
employee related health care benefit plan that is subject to a
deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year.

Selling, general and administrative expenses
consist primarily of compensation and related benefits to
management, administrative salaries and benefits, marketing,
office rent and utilities, communications, professional fees and
bad debt expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses
can be impacted by our customers’ inability to pay for
services performed.

Seasonality; Fluctuations of Results

Our results of operations can be subject to
seasonal variations. During the winter months, demand for new
projects and new maintenance service arrangements may be lower
due to reduced construction activity. However, demand for repair
and maintenance services attributable to damage caused by
inclement weather during the winter months may partially offset
the loss of revenues from lower demand for new projects and new
maintenance service arrangements. Additionally, our industry can
be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be
adversely affected by declines in new projects in various
geographic regions in the



United States. Typically, we experience lower
gross and operating margins during the winter months due to
lower demand for our services and more difficult operating
conditions. The financial condition of our customers and their
access to capital, variations in the margins of projects
performed during any particular quarter, the timing and
magnitude of acquisition assimilation costs, regional economic
conditions and timing of acquisitions may also materially affect
quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any
particular quarter or year may not be indicative of the results
that can be expected for any other quarter or for any other year.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash
Requirements

During 2003, our cash flow from operations
coupled with the 4.5% convertible subordinated notes
offering and a new credit facility allowed us to increase the
amount of cash on our balance sheet. We anticipate that our cash
on hand and cash flow from operations will provide sufficient
cash to enable us to meet our future operating needs, debt
service requirements and planned capital expenditures and to
ensure our future ability to grow. Expansion into governmental
contracts, momentum in deployment of fiber to the home or
initiatives to rebuild the United States electric power grid
might require a significant amount of additional working
capital. However, we feel that we have adequate cash and
availability under our credit facility to meet such needs.

Sources
and Uses of Cash

As of December 31, 2003, we had cash and
cash equivalents of $179.6 million, working capital of
$476.7 million and long-term debt of $500.6 million,
net of current maturities. Our long-term debt balance at that
date included $442.5 million of convertible subordinated
notes and $58.1 million of other debt. In addition, we had
$96.7 million of letters of credit outstanding under our
credit facility.

During the year ended December 31, 2003,
operating activities provided net cash to us of
$117.2 million. Operating cash flow before changes in
working capital and other operating accounts totaled
$131.1 million. Net changes in working capital and other
operating accounts used $13.9 million of cash flow from
operations, in 2003. Cash flow from operations is primarily
influenced by demand for our services, operating margins and the
type of services we provide. We used net cash in investing
activities of $42.1 million, including $35.9 million
used for capital expenditures and $9.3 million used to fund
our casualty self-insurance obligation, partially offset by
proceeds from the sale of equipment. Cash flow from financing
activities was $76.6 million resulting from the proceeds of
$270.0 million convertible subordinated notes offering,
$56.0 million drawn down on the term loan portion of the
credit facility discussed below, $7.1 million from
issuances of common stock and $4.9 million of proceeds from
other debt offset by the $210.0 million in retirement of
senior secured notes, $31.7 million in make-whole
prepayment premiums and other related costs associated with the
retirement of the senior secured notes, $7.6 million in
payments of other long-term debt obligations and
$12.1 million in costs relating to the new financings.

Debt
Instruments

Credit
Facility

On December 19, 2003, we entered into a
$185.0 million credit facility with various lenders, which
replaced our previous credit facility. The credit facility
consists of a $150.0 million letter of credit facility
maturing on June 19, 2008, which also provides for term
loans, and a $35.0 million revolving credit facility
maturing on December 19, 2007, which provides for revolving
loans and letters of credit. The letter of credit facility is
linked to a $150.0 million deposit made by the lenders,
which is held in an account with Bank of America, N.A. This
deposit may be used either to support letters of credit or, to
the extent that amounts available under the facility are not
used to support letters of credit, for term loans. As of
December 31, 2003, we had approximately $93.6 million
of letters of credit issued under the letter of credit facility,
approximately $3.1 million of letters of credit issued
under the revolving facility and $56.0 million outstanding
as a term loan under the credit facility with an interest rate
of 4.15% as of December 31, 2003. Our borrowing
availability was $31.9 million as of December 31, 2003.



Under the letter of credit facility, we are
subject to a fee equal to 3.00% of the letters of credit
outstanding, plus an additional 0.15% of the amount outstanding
to the extent the funds in the deposit account do not earn the
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), as defined in the credit
facility. Term loans under the facility bear interest at a rate
equal to either (a) the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the
credit facility) plus 3.00% or (b) the Base Rate (as
described below) plus 3.00%. The Base Rate equals the higher of
(i) the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the credit
facility) plus 1/2 of 1% and (ii) the bank’s prime
rate. The maximum availability under the facility is
automatically reduced on December 31 of each year by
$1.5 million, beginning December 31, 2004.

Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit
facility bear interest at a rate equal to either (a) the
Eurodollar Rate plus 1.75% to 3.00%, as determined by the ratio
of our total funded debt to EBITDA, or (b) the Base Rate
plus 0.25% to 1.50%, as determined by the ratio of our total
funded debt to EBITDA. Letters of credit issued under the
revolving credit facility are subject to a letter of credit fee
of 1.75% to 3.00%, based on the ratio of our total funded debt
to EBITDA. If we choose to cash collateralize letters of credit
issued under the revolving credit facility, those letters of
credit will be subject to a letter of credit fee of 0.50%. We
are also subject to a commitment fee of 0.375% to 0.625%, based
on the ratio of our total funded debt to EBITDA, on any unused
availability under the revolving credit facility.

The credit facility contains certain covenants,
including a maximum funded debt to EBITDA ratio, a maximum
senior debt to EBITDA ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio,
a minimum asset coverage ratio and a minimum consolidated net
worth covenant. The credit facility also limits acquisitions,
capital expenditures and asset sales and, subject to some
exceptions, prohibits stock repurchase programs and the payment
of dividends (other than dividend payments or other
distributions payable solely in capital stock). After
December 31, 2004, however, we may pay dividends and engage
in stock repurchase programs in any fiscal year in an aggregate
amount up to twenty-five percent of our consolidated net income
(plus the amount of non-cash charges that reduced such
consolidated net income) for the immediately prior fiscal year.
The credit facility carries cross-default provisions with our
other debt instruments.

The credit facility is secured by a pledge of all
of the capital stock of our U.S. subsidiaries, 65% of the
capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries and substantially all
of our assets, and it restricts pledges on all material assets.
Borrowings under the credit facility are to be used for working
capital, capital expenditures and for other general corporate
purposes. Our U.S. subsidiaries guarantee the repayment of
all amounts due under the credit facility. Our obligations under
the credit facility constitute designated senior indebtedness
under our convertible subordinated notes.

4.0% Convertible
Subordinated Notes

As of December 31, 2003, we had
$172.5 million in 4.0% convertible subordinated notes
outstanding. These 4.0% convertible subordinated notes are
convertible into shares of our common stock at a price of
$54.53 per share, subject to adjustment as a result of
certain events. These 4.0% convertible subordinated notes
require semi-annual interest payments until the notes mature on
July 1, 2007. We have the option to redeem some or all of
the 4.0% convertible subordinated notes beginning
July 3, 2003 at specified redemption prices, together with
accrued and unpaid interest; however, redemption is prohibited
by our credit facility. If certain fundamental changes occur, as
described in the indenture under which we issued the
4.0% convertible subordinated notes, holders of the
4.0% convertible subordinated notes may require us to
purchase all or part of their notes at a purchase price equal to
100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
In the event of such circumstance, consent to repurchase the
4.0% convertible subordinated notes would be required under
our credit facility.

4.5% Convertible
Subordinated Notes

In October 2003, we issued $270.0 million
principal amount of 4.5% convertible subordinated notes.
These 4.5% convertible subordinated notes are convertible
into shares of Quanta’s common stock at a price of
$11.14 per share, subject to adjustment as a result of
certain events. The 4.5% convertible subordinated notes
require semi-annual interest payments beginning April 1,
2004, until the notes mature on October 1, 2023.



The 4.5% convertible subordinated notes are
convertible by the holder if (i) during any fiscal quarter
commencing after December 31, 2003 the last reported sale
price of our common stock is greater than or equal to 120% of
the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the period
of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the first trading day
of such fiscal quarter, (ii) during the five business
day period after any five consecutive trading day period in
which the trading price per note for each day of that period was
less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of
our common stock and the conversion rate, (iii) upon us
calling the notes for redemption or (iv) upon the
occurrence of specified corporate transactions. If the notes
become convertible under one of these circumstances, we have the
option to deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a
combination thereof to satisfy our conversion obligation. If we
satisfy the obligation with shares of our common stock, we will
deliver a number of shares equal to the par value of the notes
divided by the conversion price. If we satisfy the obligation
with cash, we will pay cash in an amount equal to the par value
of the notes divided by the conversion price multiplied by the
average trading price of our common stock. The maximum number of
shares of common stock that could be issued under these
circumstances is equal to the par value of the notes divided by
the conversion price.

Beginning October 8, 2008, we may redeem for
cash some or all of the 4.5% convertible subordinated notes
at par value plus accrued and unpaid interest. The holders of
the notes may require us to repurchase some or all of the notes
at par value plus accrued and unpaid interest on October 1,
2008, 2013, or 2018, or upon the occurrence of a fundamental
change, as defined by the indenture under which we issued the
notes. We must pay any required repurchase on October 1,
2008 in cash. For all other required repurchases, we have the
option to deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a
combination thereof to satisfy our repurchase obligation. We
presently do not anticipate using stock to satisfy any future
obligations. If we were to satisfy the obligation with shares of
our common stock, we will deliver a number of shares equal to
the par value of the notes divided by 98.5% of the average
trading price of our common stock. The number of shares of
common stock issuable by us under this circumstance is not
capped. Our right to satisfy a required repurchase obligation
with shares of common stock can be surrendered by us. The
4.5% convertible subordinated notes carry cross-default
provisions with our credit facility and any other debt
instrument that exceeds $10.0 million in borrowings.

Senior
Secured Notes

In the fourth quarter of 2003, we retired the
$210.0 million of senior secured notes that were then
outstanding and paid associated make-whole prepayment premiums
in the amount of $31.3 million. The make-whole prepayment
premiums, along with unamortized deferred financing costs for
the senior notes in the amount of approximately
$2.5 million and other related costs, were expensed in the
fourth quarter of 2003.

Preferred
Stock

On December 20, 2002, First Reserve
purchased from us approximately 2.4 million shares of newly
issued Series E Preferred Stock. The Series E
Preferred Stock was converted into 24.3 million shares of
common stock on December 31, 2002 and the series was
eliminated during the second quarter of 2003. Through
February 20, 2003, First Reserve had the right to require
us to repurchase for cash the shares of common stock issued as a
result of the conversion of the shares of Series E
Preferred Stock if we had a change in control. As such, the
investment was reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as
redeemable common stock at December 31, 2002. On
February 20, 2003, at the expiration of this right, the
redeemable common stock was reclassified to stockholders’
equity.

During the first quarter of 2003, all outstanding
shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were
converted into shares of common stock and the series was
eliminated during the second quarter of 2003. Dividends of
$2.3 million that had accrued on the shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, which included
$0.2 million accrued during the first quarter of 2003, were
forfeited and reversed on the date of the conversion.



Off-balance
Sheet Transactions

As is common in our industry, we have entered
into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary
course of business that result in risks not directly reflected
in our balance sheets. Our significant off-balance sheet
transactions include liabilities associated with non-cancelable
operating leases, letter of credit obligations and surety
guarantees. We have not engaged in any off-balance sheet
financing arrangements through special purpose entities.

We enter into non-cancelable operating leases for
many of our facility, vehicle and equipment needs. These leases
allow us to conserve cash by paying a monthly lease rental fee
for use of facilities, vehicles and equipment rather than
purchasing them. At the end of the lease, we have no further
obligation to the lessor. We may decide to cancel or terminate a
lease before the end of its term, in which case we are typically
liable to the lessor for the remaining lease payments under the
term of the lease.

We have guaranteed the residual value on certain
of our equipment operating leases. We guarantee the difference
between this residual value and the fair market value of the
underlying asset at the date of termination of the leases. At
December 31, 2003, the maximum guaranteed residual value
would have been approximately $118.8 million. We believe
that no significant payments will be made as a result of the
difference between the fair market value of the leased equipment
and the guaranteed residual value. However, there can be no
assurance that future significant payments will not be required.

Certain of our vendors require letters of credit
to ensure reimbursement for amounts they are disbursing on our
behalf, such as to beneficiaries under our self-funded insurance
programs. In addition, from time to time some customers require
us to post letters of credit to ensure payment to our
subcontractors and vendors under those contracts and to
guarantee performance under our contracts. Such letters of
credit are generally issued by a bank or similar financial
institution. The letter of credit commits the issuer to pay
specified amounts to the holder of the letter of credit if the
holder demonstrates that we have failed to perform specified
actions. If this were to occur, we would be required to
reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit. Depending on the
circumstances of such a reimbursement, we may also have to
record a charge to earnings for the reimbursement. To date, we
have not had a claim made against a letter of credit that
resulted in payments by the issuer of the letter of credit or by
us and do not believe that it is likely that any claims will be
made under a letter of credit in the foreseeable future.

As of December 31, 2003, we had
$96.7 million in letters of credit outstanding under our
credit facility primarily to secure obligations under our
casualty insurance program. These are irrevocable stand-by
letters of credit with maturities expiring at various times
throughout 2004 and 2005. Upon maturity, it is expected that the
majority of these letters of credit will be renewed for
subsequent one-year periods. On March 5, 2004, we issued an
additional $11.1 million letter of credit to secure
additional obligations under our casualty insurance program. We
may be required to issue additional letters of credit during
2004.

As of December 31, 2003, we had restricted
cash pursuant to an obligation with our casualty insurance
policy for the period from March 1, 2003 to
February 29, 2004. The total restricted cash will be
reduced by amounts used to pay claims in the future. As of
December 31, 2003, the balance of restricted cash was
$9.3 million of which $8.7 million was classified in
other current assets and $0.6 million was classified in
Other Assets, net.

Many customers, particularly in connection with
new construction, require us to post performance and payment
bonds issued by a financial institution known as a surety. These
bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that we will perform
under the terms of a contract and that we will pay
subcontractors and vendors. If we fail to perform under a
contract or to pay subcontractors and vendors, the customer may
demand that the surety make payments or provide services under
the bond. We must reimburse the surety for any expenses or
outlays it incurs. To date, we have not had any significant
reimbursements to our surety for bond-related costs. We believe
that it is unlikely that we will have to fund claims under our
surety arrangements in the foreseeable future. As of
December 31, 2003, the total amount of outstanding
performance bonds was approximately $334.6 million.



Contractual Obligations

As of December 31, 2003, our future
contractual obligations, including interest under capital
leases, were as follows (in thousands):

Concentration of Credit Risk

We grant credit, generally without collateral, to
our customers, which include electric power and gas companies,
telecommunications and cable television system operators,
governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners
and managers of commercial and industrial properties located
primarily in the United States. Consequently, we are subject to
potential credit risk related to changes in business and
economic factors throughout the United States. However, we
generally have certain lien rights on our services provided.
Under certain circumstances, such as foreclosures or negotiated
settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu
of cash in settlement of receivables. As previously discussed
herein, our customers in the telecommunications business have
experienced significant financial difficulties and in several
instances have filed for bankruptcy. A number of our utility
customers are also experiencing business challenges in the
current business climate. These economic conditions expose us to
increased risk related to collectibility of receivables for
services we have performed.

In June 2002, a large customer, Adelphia
Communications Corporation (Adelphia), filed for bankruptcy
protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, as
amended. We have filed liens on various properties to secure
substantially all of our pre-petition receivables. Our carrying
value is based upon our understanding of the current status of
the Adelphia bankruptcy proceeding and a number of assumptions,
including assumptions about the validity, priority and
enforceability of our security interests. We currently believe
we will collect a substantial majority of the balances owed.
Should any of the factors underlying our estimate change, the
amount of our allowance could change significantly. We are
uncertain as to whether such receivables will be collected
within one year and therefore have included this amount in
non-current assets as Accounts and Notes Receivable as of
December 31, 2003. Also included in non-current Accounts
and Notes Receivable are amounts due from another customer
relating to the construction of independent power plants. We
have agreed to long-term payment terms for this customer. The
notes receivable are partially secured. We have provided
allowances for these notes receivable due to a substantial
deterioration in the estimated future cash flows of the plants,
resulting in a carrying value equal to the estimated value of
the collateral securing these notes. As of December 31,
2003, the total long-term balances due from both of these
customers was $80.7 million, with an allowance for doubtful
accounts of $46.4 million.

Litigation

We are from time to time a party to various
lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the
ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among
other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach
of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties
or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With
respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we accrue
reserves when it is probable a liability has been incurred and
the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We do not expect
the outcome of any of these proceedings, separately or in the
aggregate to have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations or financial position.

Change of Control

We have employment agreements with certain
employees that become effective upon a change of control of
Quanta (as defined in the employment agreements). The employment
agreements provide that, following a



change in control, if we terminate the employee
without cause (as defined in the employment agreements), the
employee terminates employment for good reason (as defined in
the employment agreements), or the employee’s employment
terminates due to death or disability, we will pay certain
amounts to the employee, which may vary with the level of the
employee’s responsibility and the terms of the
employee’s prior employment arrangements. In addition, in
the case of certain senior executives except for
Mr. Colson, our chief executive officer, these payments
would also be due if the employee terminates his or her
employment within the 30-day window period commencing six months
after the change in control.

Related Party Transactions

In the normal course of business, we from time to
time enter into transactions with related parties. These
transactions typically take the form of facility leases with
prior owners of acquired companies. In addition, we perform
network service work for Aquila, which had an investment in us
until 2003. Aquila sold all investments in us during 2003. See
additional discussion in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Inflation

Due to relatively low levels of inflation
experienced during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002
and 2003, inflation did not have a significant effect on our
results.

Significant Balance Sheet Changes

Total assets increased approximately
$101.6 million as of December 31, 2003 compared to
December 31, 2002. This increase is primarily due to the
following:



In 2003, total liabilities increased
approximately $123.1 million, redeemable common stock
decreased $72.9 million and stockholders’ equity
increased approximately $51.5 million compared to 2002.
These fluctuations were primarily due to the following:



Results of Operations

The following table sets forth selected
statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of
revenues for the years indicated (dollars in thousands):

Year ended December 31, 2003 compared to
the year ended December 31, 2002

Revenues.

Revenues
decreased $107.9 million to $1.6 billion, or 6.2%, for
the year ended December 31, 2003, with revenues derived
from the cable television network services industry decreasing
by approximately $81.5 million and revenues from the
telecommunications network services industry decreasing by
approximately $48.9 million. These decreases were partially
offset by increases in revenues derived from the electric power
and gas network services industry of approximately
$7.5 million and revenues from ancillary services
increasing approximately $15.1 million. The overall
decrease was due to the continued reduction in capital spending
by our customers, which negatively impacted the award of work to
specialty contractors. Pricing pressures have also contributed
to lower revenues as the competitive bid environment has
tightened.

Gross profit.

Gross
profit decreased $36.9 million, or 15.6%, to
$199.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
As a percentage of revenue, gross margin decreased from 13.5%
for the year ended December 31, 2002 to 12.2% for the year
ended December 31, 2003. The decrease in gross margin was
attributable to the negative impact of the factors affecting
revenue noted above, shutdowns, delays and substantial operating
inefficiencies resulting from severe snowfall in the Northeast
and Mountain regions of the United States during the first
quarter of 2003 and substantially higher than normal rainfall
amounts in the South and Southeast during the first and second
quarters of 2003, partially offset by increased margins on
telecommunications revenues.



Selling, general and administrative
expenses.

Selling, general and
administrative expenses decreased $48.9 million, or 21.6%,
to $176.9 million for the year ended December 31,
2003. During the year ended December 31, 2003, we recorded
$19.9 million in bad debt expense. During the year ended
December 31, 2002, we recorded $35.7 million in bad
debt expense, $10.5 million in proxy defense costs and
$4.5 million in expensed loan and equity costs associated
with amendments of our then existing debt agreements and
issuances of stock. Absent these items, selling, general and
administrative expenses for the year ended December 31,
2003 decreased approximately $18.1 million primarily due to
reductions in salary and benefit costs, facility related costs
and travel and entertainment costs as a result of reductions in
personnel and the closure of certain offices.

Goodwill impairment.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, as a result of our
annual impairment test, we recognized a non-cash
SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairment charge of
$6.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2002,
we recognized an interim non-cash SFAS No. 142
goodwill impairment charge of $166.6 million.

Interest expense.

Interest expense decreased $4.0 million, or 11.3%, to
$31.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
This decrease was due to lower average levels of debt in 2003
and an expense of approximately $1.0 million for
unamortized debt issuance costs relating to amendments of the
credit facility charged to interest expense during the year
ended December 31, 2002. These decreases were partially
offset by increased interest rates.

Loss on early extinguishment of
debt.

During the year ended
December 31, 2003, we recognized $35.1 million of loss
on early extinguishment of debt comprised of make-whole
prepayment premiums in the amount of $31.3 million, the
write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs of
$3.3 million associated with the retirement of our senior
secured notes and the termination of our previous credit
facility together with other related costs of $0.5 million.

Provision (benefit) for income
taxes.

The benefit for income taxes
was $18.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2003, with an effective tax rate of 34.1%, compared to a benefit
of $19.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002,
with an effective tax rate of 10.2%. The 2002 annual effective
tax rate reflects a benefit for income taxes at a rate that is
lower than the 2003 annual effective tax rate primarily due to
the significant 2002 interim goodwill impairment charge, the
majority of which was not deductible for tax purposes, thereby
reducing the amount of tax benefit recorded for the year ended
December 31, 2002.

Dividends on preferred stock, net of
forfeitures.

For the year ended
December 31, 2003, we recorded approximately
$2.1 million in forfeitures of dividends on the
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. During the first
quarter of 2003, all outstanding shares of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock were converted into shares of common
stock and the series was eliminated during the second quarter of
2003. Any dividends that had accrued on the respective shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were forfeited and
reversed on the date of conversion.

Year ended December 31, 2002 compared to
the year ended December 31, 2001

Revenues.

Revenues
decreased $264.2 million, or 13.1%, to $1.75 billion
for the year ended December 31, 2002, with revenues derived
from the telecommunications network services industry decreasing
by approximately $313.3 million and revenues from the cable
television network services industry decreasing by approximately
$81.0 million. These decreases were partially offset by
increases in revenues from the electric power and gas network
services industry of approximately $121.4 million and
revenues from ancillary services increasing approximately
$8.8 million. Also offsetting the decrease is a full year
of contributed revenues for those companies acquired during
2001. The overall decrease was due to the continued reduction in
capital spending by our customers, the inability of certain of
these customers to raise new capital, bankruptcies of certain
customers and the overall downturn in the national economy,
which had negatively impacted the award of work to specialty
contractors. Pricing pressures also contributed to lower
revenues as the competitive bid environment tightened.



Gross profit.

Gross
profit decreased $177.1 million to $236.8 million for
the year ended December 31, 2002. Gross margin decreased
from 20.5% for the year ended December 31, 2001 to 13.5%
for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease in gross
margin resulted primarily from declining volumes due to economic
factors noted above, significantly lower margins on work
performed due to increased pricing pressures and lower asset
utilization. The decrease also resulted from higher than normal
transition costs during the first six months of 2002 on one
telecommunications outsourcing contract.

Selling, general and administrative
expenses.

Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased $31.2 million, or 16.0%,
to $225.7 million for the year ended December 31,
2002. During the year ended December 31, 2002, we recorded
$35.7 million in bad debt expense, $10.5 million in
proxy costs and $4.5 million in expensed loan and equity
transaction costs associated with amendments of our existing
debt agreements and issuances of stock. During the year ended
December 31, 2001, we recorded $20.3 million in bad
debt expense and $1.1 million in proxy costs. Excluding the
impact of these items, selling, general and administrative
expenses for the year ended December 31, 2002 increased
approximately $1.8 million, primarily due to the inclusion
of a full year of costs associated with companies acquired
during 2001 and higher professional fees due to increased
collection efforts on troubled accounts, partially offset by
reductions in personnel and bonuses. As a percentage of
revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased
due to the items noted above, as well as the impact of lower
revenues.

Goodwill impairment.

During the year ended December 31, 2002, we recognized an
interim non-cash SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairment
charge of $166.6 million. Any interim impairment
adjustments recognized after adoption are required to be
recognized as operating expenses. The primary factor
contributing to the interim impairment charge was the overall
deterioration of the business climate during 2002 in the markets
we serve.

Interest expense.

Interest expense decreased $0.2 million, or 0.6%, to
$35.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002,
due to lower average levels of debt outstanding during 2002,
partially offset by higher weighted average interest rates in
2002 and expensed loan costs associated with debt amendments in
2002.

Provision (benefit) for income
taxes.

The benefit for income taxes
was $19.7 million for the year ended December 31,
2002, with an effective tax rate of 10.2%, compared to a
provision of $71.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2001 and an effective tax rate of 45.4%. The
lower tax rate in 2002 results primarily from the interim
goodwill impairment charge, the majority of which is not
deductible for tax purposes, thereby reducing the amount of tax
benefit recorded.

Cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle, net of tax.

Based on our
transitional impairment test performed upon adoption of
SFAS No. 142, we recognized a charge, net of tax, of
$445.4 million to reduce the carrying value of the goodwill
of our reporting units to its implied fair value for the year
ended December 31, 2002. Under SFAS No. 142, the
impairment adjustment recognized at adoption of the new rule was
reflected as a cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle in the year ended December 31, 2002.

Net income (loss).

Net income decreased $705.3 million to a net loss of
$619.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002,
compared to net income of $85.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2001, primarily due to impairments of goodwill
recorded pursuant to SFAS No. 142 and decreased gross
profit as described above.

Dividends on preferred
stock.

For the year ended
December 31, 2002, we recorded approximately $11,000 in
negative dividends on preferred stock. In connection with their
investment in us, on October 15, 2002, First Reserve
acquired approximately 0.9 million shares of our
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. On October 15,
2002, First Reserve forgave approximately $780,000 in dividends
that had accrued on those shares. On December 2, 2002, and
December 23, 2002, 238,000 shares and
7,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock,
respectively, were converted into shares of common stock. Any
dividends that had accrued on the respective shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were forfeited and
reversed on the date of conversion.

Non-cash beneficial conversion
charge.

The original as-converted
share price negotiated with First Reserve for the Series E
Preferred Stock on October 15, 2002 was $3.00 per
share which was an above market



price. On December 20, 2002, the date First
Reserve purchased the Series E Preferred Stock, our stock
closed at $3.35 per share. Accordingly, we recorded a
non-cash beneficial conversion charge of $8.5 million based
on the $0.35 per share differential. The non-cash
beneficial conversion charge is recognized as a deemed dividend
to the Series E Preferred Stockholder and is recorded as a
decrease to net income attributable to common stock and an
increase in additional paid-in capital. The non-cash beneficial
conversion charge had no effect on our operating income, cash
flows or stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2002.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2003, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 150, “Accounting for Certain Financial
Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and
Equity.” SFAS No. 150 establishes standards for
classifying and measuring certain financial instruments with
characteristics of both liabilities and equity. Financial
instruments that fall within the scope of SFAS No. 150
will be classified as liabilities (or assets in some
circumstances). This statement is effective at the beginning of
the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. The
adoption of SFAS No. 150 did not have a material
impact on our results of operations or financial position.

Critical Accounting Policies

The discussion and analysis of our financial
condition and results of operations are based on our
consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial
statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist
at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, based on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. There can be
no assurance that actual results will not differ from those
estimates. Management has reviewed its development and selection
of critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our
board of directors. We believe the following accounting
policies, which are also described in Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, affect our more significant
judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements:

Current and Non-Current Accounts and Notes
    Receivable and Provision for Doubtful
    Accounts.

We provide an allowance for
    doubtful accounts when collection of an account or note
    receivable is considered doubtful. Inherent in the assessment of
    the allowance for doubtful accounts are certain judgments and
    estimates including, among others, our customer’s access to
    capital, our customer’s willingness or ability to pay,
    general economic conditions and the ongoing relationship with
    the customer. For example, certain of our customers, primarily
    large public telecommunications carriers, have filed for
    bankruptcy or have been experiencing financial difficulties, and
    as a result we increased our allowance for doubtful accounts to
    reflect that certain customers may be unable to meet their
    obligations to us in the future. Should additional customers
    file for bankruptcy or experience difficulties, or should
    anticipated recoveries relating to the receivables in existing
    bankruptcies and other workout situations fail to materialize,
    we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of
    current reserves.

Valuation of Long-Lived
    Assets.

As stated in Note 2 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
    SFAS No. 142 provides that goodwill and other
    intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be
    amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for
    impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives
    should continue to be amortized over their useful lives.
    SFAS No. 142 also provides specific guidance for
    testing goodwill and other nonamortized intangible assets for
    impairment. Goodwill of a reporting unit shall be tested for
    impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or
    circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the
    fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.
    Examples of such events or circumstances may include a
    significant change in business climate or a loss of key
    personnel, among others. SFAS No. 142 requires that
    management make certain estimates and assumptions in order to
    allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair
    value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including,
    among other things, an assessment of market



Outlook

The following statements are based on current
expectations. These statements are forward looking, and actual
results may differ materially.

Like many companies that provide installation and
maintenance services to the electric power, gas,
telecommunications and cable television industries, we are
facing a number of challenges. The telecommunications and
utility markets experienced substantial change during 2002 and
2003 as evidenced by an increased number of bankruptcies in the
telecommunications market, continued devaluation of many of our
customers’ debt and equity securities and pricing pressures
resulting from challenges faced by major industry participants.



These factors have contributed to the delay and
cancellation of projects and reduction of capital spending that
have impacted our operations and ability to grow at historical
levels.

We continue to focus on the elements of the
business we can control, including cost control, the margins we
accept on projects, collecting receivables, ensuring quality
service and right sizing initiatives to match the markets we
serve. These initiatives include aligning our work force with
our current revenue base, evaluating opportunities to reduce the
number of field offices and evaluating our non-core assets for
potential sale. Such initiatives could result in future charges
related to, among others, severance, facilities shutdown and
consolidation, property disposal and other exit costs as we
execute these initiatives.

We expect consistent demand for our services from
our electric power and gas customers throughout 2004 with
stabilization in the demand for our services from our
telecommunications and cable customers and relatively level
demand for our ancillary services. Financial and economic
pressures have led our customers to return to their core
competencies and focus on cost reductions, resulting in an
increased focus on outsourcing services. In addition, our
utility customers have an increasing awareness of transmission
and distribution network upgrade needs. We believe that we are
adequately positioned to provide these services because of our
proven full-service operating units with broad geographic reach,
financial capability and technical expertise.

Capital expenditures in 2004 are expected to be
approximately $40.0 million to $50.0 million. A
majority of the expenditures will be for operating equipment. We
expect expenditures for 2004 to be funded substantially through
internal cash flows and, to the extent necessary, from cash on
hand.

Sarbanes-Oxley
Act and New SEC Rules

Several regulatory and legislative initiatives
were introduced in 2002 and 2003 in response to developments
during 2001 and 2002 regarding accounting issues at large public
companies, resulting disruptions in the capital markets and
ensuing calls for action to prevent repetition of those events.
We support the actions called for under these initiatives and
believe these steps will ultimately be successful in
accomplishing the stated objectives. However, implementation of
reforms in connection with these initiatives have added and will
add to the costs of doing business for all publicly-traded
entities, including Quanta. These costs will have an adverse
impact on future income and cash flows, especially in the near
term as legal, accounting and consulting costs are incurred to
analyze the new requirements, formalize current practices and
implement required changes to ensure that we maintain compliance
with these new rules. There is little in the way of historical
guidance to accurately predict these costs and we are not able
to estimate the magnitude of increase in our costs that will
result from such reforms.

Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and
Information

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes
statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections,
intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as
“forward-looking statements” under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these
statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts. They use words such as
“anticipate,” “estimate,”
“project,” “forecast,” “may,”
“will,” “should,” “could,”
“expect,” “believe” and other words of
similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not
limited to, statements relating to the following:



Any or all of our forward-looking statements may
turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate
assumptions and by known or unknown risks and uncertainties,
including the following:

Many of these factors will be important in
determining our actual future results. Consequently, no
forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Our actual future
results may vary materially from those expressed or implied in
any forward-looking statements.

All of our forward-looking statements, whether
written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary
statements and any other cautionary statements that may
accompany such forward-looking statements. In addition, we
disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements
to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.



ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk related to
potential adverse changes in interest rates. Management does not
generally use derivative financial instruments for trading or to
speculate on changes in interest rates or commodity prices.
Management is actively involved in monitoring exposure to market
risk and continues to develop and utilize appropriate risk
management techniques. We are not exposed to any other
significant market risks, foreign currency exchange risk or
interest rate risk from the use of derivative financial
instruments.

The sensitivity analyses below, which illustrate
our hypothetical potential market risk exposure, estimate the
effects of hypothetical sudden and sustained changes in the
applicable market conditions on 2003 earnings. The sensitivity
analyses presented do not consider any additional actions we may
take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. The hypothetical
changes and assumptions may be different from what actually
occurs in the future.

Interest Rates.

As
of December 31, 2003, we had no derivative financial
instruments to manage interest rate risk. As such, we are
exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to changes in
interest rates with respect to our long-term obligations. As of
December 31, 2002 and 2003, the fair value of our
fixed-rate debt of $392.3 million and $449.6 million
was approximately $317.3 million and $449.2 million,
respectively, based upon discounted future cash flows using
incremental borrowing rates and current market prices. As of
December 31, 2003, the fair value of our variable rate debt
of $56.0 million approximated book value and the
detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical
50 basis point increase in variable interest rates would be
approximately $0.3 million. As of December 31, 2002,
we had no borrowings under our credit facility and no other
variable rate obligations.



ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Quanta Services, Inc.:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholders’ equity and cash flows present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Quanta Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2002 and 2003, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the two years in the
period then ended in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion. The consolidated financial statements of
Quanta Services, Inc. as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2001, prior to the revisions discussed in
Note 2, were audited by other independent public
accountants who have ceased operations. Those independent public
accountants expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements in their report dated February 14, 2002 (except
for the matters discussed in prior year Note 16 (not
separately presented herein), as to which the date was
March 25, 2002).

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements, effective January 1, 2002, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”.

As discussed above, the consolidated financial
statements of Quanta Services, Inc. for the year ended
December 31, 2001, prior to the revisions described in
Note 2, were audited by other independent public
accountants who have ceased operations. As described in
Note 2, these consolidated financial statements have been
revised to include the transitional disclosures required by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, which was
adopted by the Company as of January 1, 2002. We audited
the transitional disclosures described in Note 2. In our
opinion, the transitional disclosures for 2001 in Note 2
are appropriate. However, we were not engaged to audit, review
or apply any procedures to the 2001 consolidated financial
statements of Quanta Services, Inc. other than with respect
to such disclosures and, accordingly, we do not express an
opinion or any other form of assurance on the 2001 consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole.

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Houston, Texas

March 10, 2004



NOTE:

This is a copy of a report previously issued by
    Arthur Andersen LLP, our former independent public accountants.
    This report has not been reissued by Arthur Andersen LLP in
    connection with the filing of Quanta Services, Inc.’s
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 2002. Quanta Services Inc.’s consolidated
    balance sheet as of December 31, 2000 and 2001 and the
    consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity
    and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 1999 and
    2000 are not required to be presented and are not included in
    this Form 10-K. Additionally, the reference to Note 16
    below is applicable to the Company’s footnotes to their
    audited financial statements as of December 31, 2001.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC
ACCOUNTANTS

To Quanta Services, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Quanta Services, Inc. (a Delaware
corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and
2001, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
cash flows and stockholders’ equity for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2001. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Quanta Services, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 2001, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2001, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States.

ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Houston, Texas

February 14, 2002 (except for the matters

discussed in Note 16, as to which

the date is March 25, 2002)



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands, except share
information)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS

(In thousands, except share
information)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

(In thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

(In thousands, except share
information)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

1.

BUSINESS AND ORGANIZATION:

Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading
provider of specialized contracting services, offering
end-to-end network solutions to the electric power, gas,
telecommunications and cable television industries.
Quanta’s comprehensive services include designing,
installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure.

In the course of its operations, Quanta is
subject to certain risk factors, including but not limited to
risks related to significant fluctuations in quarterly results,
economic downturn, contract terms, competition, occupational
health and safety matters, rapid technological and structural
changes in the industries Quanta serves, ability to obtain or
maintain performance bonds, management of growth, dependence on
key personnel, unionized workforce, availability of qualified
employees, self-insured against potential liabilities, potential
exposure to environmental liabilities, pursuit of additional
work in the government arena, requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, access to capital, internal growth and operating
strategies, recoverability of goodwill, replacing cancelled or
completed contracts, acquisition integration and financing and
anti-takeover measures.

2.

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES:

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements of Quanta
include the accounts of Quanta and its wholly owned
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made in prior
years’ financial statements to conform to classifications
used in the current year.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States requires the use of estimates and assumptions by
management in determining the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities
known to exist as of the date the financial statements are
published and the reported amount of revenues and expenses
recognized during the periods presented. Quanta reviews all
significant estimates affecting its consolidated financial
statements on a recurring basis and records the effect of any
necessary adjustments prior to their publication. Judgments and
estimates are based on Quanta’s beliefs and assumptions
derived from information available at the time such judgments
and estimates are made. Uncertainties with respect to such
estimates and assumptions are inherent in the preparation of
financial statements. Estimates are primarily used in
Quanta’s assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts,
valuation of inventory, fair value assumptions in analyzing
goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims
liabilities, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion
accounting and provision for income taxes.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Quanta considers all highly liquid investments
purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to
be cash equivalents.

Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Quanta had non-cash investing and financing
activities, pursuant to its acquisition program. In 2002, Quanta
acquired assets through purchase acquisitions with an estimated
fair value, net of cash acquired, of $2.0 million and
liabilities of $2.5 million, resulting in the recording of
$11.8 million in goodwill. In 2001,



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Quanta acquired assets through purchase
acquisitions with an estimated fair value, net of cash acquired,
of $20.9 million and liabilities of $13.1 million
resulting in the recording of $156.9 million in goodwill.

Current and Long-Term Accounts and Notes
    Receivable and Provision for Doubtful Accounts

Quanta provides an allowance for doubtful
accounts when collection of an account or note receivable is
considered doubtful. Inherent in the assessment of the allowance
for doubtful accounts are certain judgments and estimates
including, among others, our customer’s access to capital,
the customer’s willingness or ability to pay, general
economic conditions and the ongoing relationship with the
customer. Under certain circumstances such as foreclosures or
negotiated settlements, Quanta may take title to the underlying
assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. As of
December 31, 2002 and 2003, Quanta has provided allowances
for doubtful accounts of approximately $66.0 million and
$73.7 million. Certain of Quanta’s customers, several
of them large public telecommunications carriers have filed for
bankruptcy or have been experiencing financial difficulties.
Also a number of Quanta’s utility customers are
experiencing financial difficulties in the current business
climate. Should additional customers file for bankruptcy or
continue to experience difficulties, or should anticipated
recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or
other workout situations fail to materialize, Quanta could
experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current
allowances provided. In addition, material changes in our
customers’ revenues or cash flows could affect our ability
to collect amounts due from them.

In June 2002, one of Quanta’s customers,
Adelphia Communications Corporation, filed for bankruptcy
protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, as
amended. Quanta has filed liens on various properties to secure
substantially all of its pre-petition receivables. The carrying
value is based upon Quanta’s understanding of the current
status of the Adelphia bankruptcy proceeding and a number of
assumptions, including assumptions about the validity, priority
and enforceability of our security interests. Quanta currently
believes it will collect a substantial majority of the balances
owed. Should any of the factors underlying Quanta’s
estimate change, the amount of Quanta’s allowance could
change significantly. Quanta is uncertain as to whether such
receivables will be collected within one year and therefore has
included this amount in non-current assets as Accounts and Notes
Receivable. Also included in Accounts and Notes Receivable are
amounts due from another customer relating to the construction
of independent power plants. Quanta has agreed to long-term
payment terms for this customer. The notes receivable are
partially secured. During 2002 and 2003, we provided allowances
for a significant portion of these notes receivable due to a
change in the economic viability of the plants securing them.
The collectibility of these notes may ultimately depend on the
value of the collateral securing these notes. As of
December 31, 2002, the total balance due from both of these
customers was $78.4 million, net of an allowance for
doubtful accounts of $28.4 million. As of December 31,
2003, the total balance from both of these customers was
$80.7 million, with an allowance for doubtful accounts of
$46.4 million.

The balances billed but not paid by customers
pursuant to retainage provisions in certain contracts will be
due upon completion of the contracts and acceptance by the
customer. Based on Quanta’s experience with similar
contracts in recent years, the majority of the retention balance
at each balance sheet date will be collected within the
subsequent fiscal year. Current retainage balances as of
December 31, 2002 and 2003 were approximately
$47.2 million and $37.2 million, and are included in
accounts receivable.

Due to contractual provisions, certain balances,
though the earnings process is complete, are not billable to
customers until defined milestones are reached. These balances
are considered to be unbilled receivables and are included in
accounts receivable at year-end. At December 31, 2002 and
2003, these balances were approximately $39.7 million and
$42.8 million.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Concentration of Credit Risk

Quanta grants credit, generally without
collateral, to its customers, which include electric power and
gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system
operators, governmental entities, general contractors, builders
and owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties
located primarily in the United States. Consequently, Quanta is
subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business
and economic factors throughout the United States. However,
Quanta generally is entitled to payment for work performed and
typically has certain lien rights on the services provided. No
customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable or
revenues as of or for the years ended December 31, 2002 or
2003.

Inventories

Inventories consist of parts and supplies held
for use in the ordinary course of business and are valued by
Quanta at the lower of cost or market using the first-in,
first-out (FIFO) method. As of December 31, 2002 and
2003, Quanta has recorded a valuation allowance of approximately
$3.0 million.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost, and
depreciation is computed using the straight-line method, net of
estimated salvage values, over the estimated useful lives of the
assets. Leasehold improvements are capitalized and amortized
over the lesser of the life of the lease or the estimated useful
life of the asset. Depreciation and amortization expense related
to property and equipment was approximately $53.4 million,
$60.2 million and $59.5 million for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively.

Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are
charged to expense when incurred. Expenditures for major
renewals and betterments, which extend the useful lives of
existing equipment, are capitalized and depreciated. Upon
retirement or disposition of property and equipment, the cost
and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the
accounts and any resulting gain or loss is recognized in the
statements of operations.

Management reviews long-lived assets for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount may not be realizable. If an evaluation
is required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows
associated with the asset are compared to the asset’s
carrying amount to determine if an impairment of such asset is
necessary. The effect of any impairment would be to expense the
difference between the fair value of such asset and its carrying
value.

Debt Issuance Costs

As of December 31, 2002 and 2003,
capitalized debt issuance costs related to Quanta’s credit
facility, the convertible subordinated notes and the senior
secured notes were included in Other Assets, net and are being
amortized into interest expense over the terms of the respective
agreements. As of December 31, 2002 and 2003, capitalized
debt issuance costs were $15.9 million and
$17.8 million with accumulated amortization of
$6.4 million and $3.2 million. For the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, amortization expense was
$2.0 million, $3.6 million and $3.5 million,
respectively.

Quanta incurred $7.7 million in debt
issuance costs related to the October 2003 4.5% convertible
subordinated notes offering, which were capitalized and are
being amortized over five years to October 1, 2008, the
first date of the holders’ put option discussed in
Note 7. Quanta capitalized debt issuance costs of
$4.4 million in connection with the credit facility entered
into in December 2003. Upon retirement of the senior secured
notes and the termination of Quanta’s former credit
facility in the fourth quarter of 2003 discussed in Note 7,
Quanta expensed $3.3 million of unamortized debt issuance
costs as part of the loss on early extinguishment of debt.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Goodwill and Other Intangibles

Effective January 1, 2002, Quanta adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets,” which establishes new accounting and reporting
requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets. Under
SFAS No. 142, all goodwill amortization ceased
effective January 1, 2002.

Material amounts of recorded goodwill
attributable to each of Quanta’s reporting units were
tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of each
reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value was
determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow,
market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches.
These impairment tests are required to be performed at adoption
of SFAS No. 142 and at least annually thereafter.
Significant estimates used in the methodologies include
estimates of future cash flows, future short-term and long-term
growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimates of
market multiples for each of the reportable units. On an ongoing
basis, absent any impairment indicators, Quanta performs
impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter.

Based on Quanta’s transitional impairment
test performed upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 on
January 1, 2002, it recognized a $488.5 million
non-cash charge, ($445.4 million, net of tax) to reduce the
carrying value of goodwill to the implied fair value of
Quanta’s reporting units. This impairment is a result of
adopting a fair value approach, under SFAS No. 142, to
testing impairment of goodwill as compared to the previous
method utilized, as permitted under accounting standards
existing at that time, in which evaluations of goodwill
impairment were made by Quanta using estimated future
undiscounted cash flows to determine if goodwill would be
recoverable. Under SFAS No. 142, the impairment
adjustment recognized at adoption of the new rules was reflected
as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of
tax, in the year ended December 31, 2002.

Quanta further recognized an interim non-cash
goodwill impairment charge of $166.6 million during the
year ended December 31, 2002. Impairment adjustments
recognized after adoption are required to be recognized as
operating expenses. The primary factor contributing to the
interim impairment charge was the overall deterioration of the
business climate during 2002 in the markets Quanta serves as
evidenced at the time by an increased number of bankruptcies in
the telecommunications industry, continued devaluation of
several of Quanta’s customers’ debt and equity
securities and pricing pressures resulting from challenges faced
by major industry participants. Fair value was determined using
a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and
market capitalization valuation approaches.

During the fourth quarter of 2003, as part of our
annual goodwill test for impairment, goodwill of
$6.5 million was written off as a non-cash operating
expense.

A summary of changes in Quanta’s goodwill is
as follows (in thousands):

Quanta recorded an Other Intangible Asset of
$2.1 million related to customer relationships during 2002.
The estimated life of this intangible asset is eight years and
accumulated amortization as of December 31, 2002 and 2003,
was approximately $0.3 million and $0.5 million.
Estimated annual amortization expense for future periods is
approximately $0.3 million.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The adjusted results of operations for the year
ended December 31, 2001, reflect the operations of Quanta
had the non-amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142
been adopted effective January 1, 2001 (in thousands,
except per share data):

Revenue Recognition

Quanta recognizes revenue when services are
performed except when work is being performed under a fixed
price contract. Revenues from fixed price contracts are
recognized on the percentage-of-completion method measured by
the percentage of costs incurred-to-date to total estimated
costs for each contract. Such contracts generally provide that
the customer accept completion of progress to date and
compensate Quanta for services rendered, measured typically in
terms of units installed, hours expended or some other measure
of progress. Contract costs typically include all direct
material, labor and subcontract costs and those indirect costs
related to contract performance, such as indirect labor,
supplies, tools, repairs and depreciation costs. Provisions for
the total estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made in
the period in which such losses are determined. Changes in job
performance, job conditions, estimated profitability and final
contract settlements may result in revisions to costs and income
and their effects are recognized in the period in which the
revisions are determined.

The current asset “Costs and estimated
earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts”
represents revenues recognized in excess of amounts billed. The
current liability “Billings in excess of costs and
estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts” represents
billings in excess of revenues recognized.

Income Taxes

Quanta follows the liability method of accounting
for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
“Accounting for Income Taxes.” Under this method,
deferred assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax
consequences of temporary differences between the financial
reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and are
measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in
effect when the underlying assets or liabilities are recovered
or settled.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Collective Bargaining Agreements

Certain of the subsidiaries are party to various
collective bargaining agreements with certain of their
employees. The agreements require such subsidiaries to pay
specified wages and provide certain benefits to their union
employees. These agreements expire at various times.

Self-Insurance

As of December 31, 2003, Quanta is insured
for employer’s liability and general liability claims,
subject to a deductible of $1,000,000 per occurrence and
for auto liability and workers compensation, subject to a
deductible of $2,000,000 per occurrence. In addition,
Quanta maintains a non-union employee related health care
benefits plan that is subject to a deductible of
$250,000 per claimant per year. Losses up to the deductible
amounts are accrued based upon Quanta’s estimates of the
ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims
incurred but not reported. The accruals are based upon known
facts and historical trends and management believes such
accruals to be adequate. At December 31, 2002 and 2003, the
amounts accrued for self-insurance claims were
$45.0 million and $62.3 million, with
$27.4 million and $36.2 million, considered to be
long-term and included in Other Non-Current Liabilities.

As of December 31, 2003, Quanta had
restricted cash pursuant to an obligation with Quanta’s
casualty insurance policy for the period from March 1, 2003
to February 29, 2004. The total restricted cash will be
reduced by amounts used to pay claims in the future. As of
December 31, 2003, the balance of restricted cash was
$9.3 million of which $8.7 million was classified in
other current assets and $0.6 million was classified in
Other Assets, net.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, accounts payable, the credit facility and
notes payable to various financial institutions approximate fair
value. The fair value of the senior secured notes was estimated
based on interest rates for the same or similar debt offered to
Quanta having the same or similar remaining maturities and
collateral requirements. At December 31, 2002, the fair
value of Quanta’s senior secured notes of
$210.0 million approximated fair value. The fair value of
the convertible subordinated notes is estimated based on quoted
secondary market prices for these notes as of year-end. At
December 31, 2002 and 2003, the fair value of Quanta’s
4.0% convertible subordinated notes of $172.5 million
was approximately $97.5 million and $157.2 million.
The fair value of Quanta’s 4.5% convertible
subordinated notes of $270.0 million was approximately
$284.9 million at December 31, 2003.

Stock Based Compensation

Quanta accounts for its stock-based compensation
under APB Opinion No. 25 “Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees.” Under this accounting method, no
compensation expense is recognized in the consolidated
statements of operations if no intrinsic value of the option
exists at the date of grant. In October 1995, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.” SFAS No. 123, as amended,
encourages companies to account for stock based compensation
awards based on the fair value of the awards at the date they
are granted. The resulting compensation cost would be shown as
an expense in the consolidated statements of operations.
Companies can choose not to apply the new accounting method and
continue to apply current accounting requirements; however,
disclosure is required as to what net income and earnings per
share would have been had the new accounting method been
followed. In addition, Quanta has an Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (ESPP). SFAS No. 123 requires the inclusion of
stock issued pursuant to an ESPP. The accounting for the
restricted stock awards are the same under APB Opinion
No. 25 and SFAS No. 123.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The fair market value of each option grant is
estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions for 2001 and
2002: (i) risk-free interest rates ranging from 4.64% to
4.84% and 3.45% to 5.27%, (ii) expected life of 7.9 and
6.7 years, (iii) average volatility of 66.9% and
144.5% (iv) dividend yield of 0%. There were no option
grants during 2003.

For the ESPP, compensation cost approximates the
difference between the fair value of Quanta’s common stock
and the actual common stock purchase price on the date of grant.

Had compensation costs for the 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan and the ESPP been determined consistent with
SFAS No. 123, Quanta’s net income attributable to
common stock and earnings per share would have been reduced to
the following as adjusted amounts (in thousands, except per
share information):

The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in
the as adjusted disclosure may not be indicative of future
amounts as additional awards may or may not be awarded. See
Note 10 for additional discussion of Quanta’s stock
incentive plans.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2003, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 150, “Accounting for Certain Financial
Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and
Equity.” SFAS No. 150 establishes standards for
classifying and measuring certain financial instruments with
characteristics of both liabilities and equity. Financial
instruments that fall within the scope of SFAS No. 150
will be classified as liabilities (or assets in some
circumstances). This statement is effective at the beginning of
the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. The
adoption of SFAS No. 150 did not have a material
impact on our results of operations or financial position.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.

PER SHARE INFORMATION:

Earnings (loss) per share amounts are based on
the weighted average number of shares of common stock and common
stock equivalents outstanding during the period. The weighted
average number of shares used to compute basic and diluted
earnings per share for 2001, 2002 and 2003 is illustrated below
(in thousands):

Pursuant to EITF Topic D-95, “Effect of
Participating Convertible Securities on the Computation of Basic
Earnings Per Share,” the impact of the Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock has been included in the computation
of basic earnings per share for the year ended December 31,
2001 using the if-converted method. For the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, stock options for
approximately 3.9 million, 7.9 million and
0.9 million shares, respectively, were excluded from the
computation of diluted earnings per share because the
options’ exercise prices were greater than the average
market price of Quanta’s common stock. For the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2003, approximately 116,000 and
16,000 stock options with exercise prices lower than the average
market price of Quanta’s common stock were also excluded
from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the
effect of including them would be antidilutive. For the years
ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, the effect of
assuming conversion of the convertible subordinated notes would
be antidilutive and they were therefore excluded from the
calculation of diluted earnings per share. For the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, shares of non-vested
restricted stock were excluded from the calculation of diluted
earnings per share as the impact would have been antidilutive.
See Note 10 for further discussion on restricted stock.

4.

BUSINESS COMBINATIONS:

During 2001, Quanta completed 9 acquisitions
accounted for as purchases. The aggregate consideration paid in
these transactions consisted of $119.9 million in cash and
2.4 million shares of common stock. The following
summarized unaudited pro forma financial information adjusts the
historical financial information by



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

assuming the acquisition of the companies
acquired during 2001 occurred on January 1, 2001 (in
thousands, except per share information):

Pro forma adjustments included in the amounts
above primarily relate to: (a) contractually agreed
reductions in salaries and benefits for former owners, and
certain key employees; (b) adjustments to amortization
expense due to the purchase price allocations; (c) an
assumed increase in interest expense in connection with
financing the acquisitions; and (d) the adjustment to the
federal and state income tax provisions based on the combined
operations. The pro forma financial data does not purport to
represent what the Company’s combined financial position or
results of operations would actually have been if such
transactions had in fact occurred on the dates indicated and are
not necessarily representative of Quanta’s financial
position or results of operations for any future period.

During 2002, Quanta completed
two acquisitions. The aggregate consideration paid in these
transactions consisted of $8.0 million in cash, net of cash
acquired, and 251,079 shares of common stock. The pro forma
effects of these transactions were not material. During 2003,
Quanta did not complete any acquisitions.

5.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:

Property and equipment consists of the following
(in thousands):



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

6.

DETAIL OF CERTAIN BALANCE SHEET
    ACCOUNTS:

Activity in Quanta’s current and long-term
allowance for doubtful accounts consists of the following (in
thousands):

Accounts payable and accrued expenses consists of
the following (in thousands):

Contracts in progress are as follows (in
thousands):



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

7.

LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS:

Quanta’s long-term debt obligations consist
of the following (in thousands):

Credit
Facility

On December 19, 2003, Quanta entered into a
$185.0 million credit facility with various lenders, which
replaced our previous credit facility discussed below. The
credit facility consists of a $150.0 million letter of
credit facility maturing on June 19, 2008, which also
provides for term loans, and a $35.0 million revolving
credit facility maturing on December 19, 2007, which
provides for revolving loans and letters of credit. The letter
of credit facility is linked to a $150.0 million deposit
made by the lenders, which is held in an account with Bank of
America, N.A. This deposit may be used either to support letters
of credit or, to the extent that amounts available under the
facility are not used to support letters of credit, for term
loans. As of December 31, 2003, Quanta had approximately
$93.6 million of letters of credit issued under the letter
of credit facility, approximately $3.1 million of letters
of credit issued under the revolving facility and
$56.0 million outstanding as a term loan under the credit
facility with an interest rate of 4.15% as of December 31,
2003. Quanta’s borrowing availability was
$31.9 million as of December 31, 2003.

Under the letter of credit facility, Quanta is
subject to a fee equal to 3.00% of the letters of credit
outstanding, plus an additional 0.15% of the amount outstanding
to the extent the funds in the deposit account do not earn the
LIBOR, as defined in the credit facility. Term loans under the
facility bear interest at a rate equal to either (a) the
Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the credit facility) plus 3.00%
or (b) the Base Rate (as described below) plus 3.00%. The
Base Rate equals the higher of (i) the Federal Funds Rate
(as defined in the credit facility) plus 1/2 of 1% and
(ii) the bank’s prime rate. The maximum availability
under the facility is automatically reduced on December 31
of each year by $1.5 million, beginning December 31,
2004.

Amounts borrowed under the revolving facility
bear interest at a rate equal to either (a) the Eurodollar
Rate plus 1.75% to 3.00%, as determined by the ratio of our
total funded debt to EBITDA, or (b) the Base Rate plus
0.25% to 1.50%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded
debt to EBITDA. Letters of credit issued under the revolving
facility are subject to a letter of credit fee of 1.75% to
3.00%, based on the ratio of our total funded debt to EBITDA. If
Quanta chooses to cash collateralize letters of credit issued
under the revolving facility, those letters of credit will be
subject to a letter of credit fee of 0.50%. Quanta is also
subject to a commitment fee of 0.375% to 0.625%, based on the
ratio of its total funded debt to EBITDA, on any unused
availability under the revolving facility.

The credit facility contains certain covenants,
including a maximum funded debt to EBITDA ratio, a maximum
senior debt to EBITDA ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio,
a minimum asset coverage ratio



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

and a minimum consolidated net worth covenant.
The credit facility also limits acquisitions, capital
expenditures and asset sales and, subject to some exceptions,
prohibits stock repurchase programs and the payment of dividends
(other than dividend payments or other distributions payable
solely in capital stock). After December 31, 2004, however,
Quanta may pay dividends and engage in stock repurchase programs
in any fiscal year in an aggregate amount up to twenty-five
percent of Quanta’s consolidated net income (plus the
amount of non-cash charges that reduced such consolidated net
income) for the immediately prior fiscal year. The credit
facility carries cross-default provisions with Quanta’s
other debt instruments.

The credit facility is secured by a pledge of all
of the capital stock of Quanta’s U.S. subsidiaries,
65% of the capital stock of Quanta’s foreign subsidiaries
and substantially all of Quanta’s assets, and it restricts
pledges on all material assets. Borrowings under the credit
facility are to be used for working capital, capital
expenditures and for other general corporate purposes.
Quanta’s U.S. subsidiaries guarantee the repayment of
all amounts due under the credit facility. Quanta’s
obligations under the credit facility constitute designated
senior indebtedness under our convertible subordinated notes.

Credit Facility

As of December 31, 2002, Quanta had a
$250.0 million credit facility, as amended, (2000 Credit
Facility) with 14 participating banks, which was to mature on
June 14, 2004. Upon closing of the above discussed credit
facility, the 2000 Credit Facility was terminated. In connection
with the termination of the agreement, the related unamortized
debt issuance costs in the amount of approximately
$0.8 million were expensed in the fourth quarter of 2003 as
part of the loss on early extinguishment of debt discussed
below. As of December 31, 2002, Quanta had no outstanding
borrowings under the 2000 Credit Facility and $71.1 million
of letters of credit outstanding.

4.0% Convertible
Subordinated Notes

During the third quarter of 2000, Quanta issued
$172.5 million principal amount of convertible subordinated
notes. These convertible subordinated notes bear interest at
4.0% per year and are convertible into shares of
Quanta’s common stock at a price of $54.53 per share,
subject to adjustment as a result of certain events. The
4.0% convertible subordinated notes require semi-annual
interest payments beginning December 31, 2000, until the
notes mature on July 1, 2007. Quanta has the option to
redeem the 4.0% convertible subordinated notes beginning
July 3, 2003 at specified redemption prices, together with
accrued and unpaid interest; however redemption is prohibited by
Quanta’s credit facility. If certain fundamental changes
occur, as described in the indenture, holders of the
4.0% convertible subordinated notes may require Quanta to
purchase all or part of the notes at a purchase price equal to
100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
In the event of such circumstance, consent to repurchase the
4.0% convertible subordinated notes would be required under
Quanta’s credit facility.

4.5% Convertible
Subordinated Notes

In October 2003, Quanta issued
$270.0 million principal amount of 4.5% convertible
subordinated notes. These convertible subordinated notes bear
interest at 4.5% per year and are convertible into shares
of Quanta’s common stock at a conversion price of
$11.14 per share, subject to adjustment as a result of
certain events. The 4.5% convertible subordinated notes
require semi-annual interest payments beginning April 1,
2004, until they mature on October 1, 2023.

The 4.5% convertible subordinated notes are
convertible by the holder if (i) during any fiscal quarter
commencing after December 31, 2003 the last reported sale
price of Quanta’s common stock is greater than or equal to
120% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the
period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the first
trading day of such fiscal quarter, (ii) during the five
business day period after any five consecutive trading day
period in which the trading price per note for each day of that
period was less than



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

98% of the product of the last reported sale
price of Quanta’s common stock and the conversion rate,
(iii) upon Quanta calling the notes for redemption or
(iv) upon the occurrence of specified corporate
transactions. If the notes become convertible under one of these
circumstances, Quanta has the option to deliver cash, shares of
Quanta’s common stock or a combination thereof, with a
value equal to the par value of the notes divided by the
conversion price multiplied by the average trading price of
Quanta’s common stock. The maximum number of shares of
common stock that could be issued under these circumstances is
equal to the par value of the notes divided by the conversion
price.

Beginning October 8, 2008, Quanta may redeem
for cash some or all of the 4.5% convertible subordinated
notes at par value plus accrued and unpaid interest. The holders
of the 4.5% convertible subordinated notes may require
Quanta to repurchase all or some of the notes at par value plus
accrued and unpaid interest on October 1, 2008, 2013 or
2018, or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined
by the indenture under which Quanta issued the notes. We must
pay any required repurchases on October 1, 2008 in cash.
For all other required repurchases, Quanta has the option to
deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a combination
thereof to satisfy our repurchase obligation. Quanta presently
does not anticipate using stock to satisfy any future
obligations. If Quanta were to satisfy the obligation with
shares of our common stock, the number of shares delivered will
equal the dollar amount to be paid in common stock divided by
98.5% of the market price of Quanta’s common stock, as
defined by the indenture. The number of shares to be issued
under this circumstance is not limited. The right to settle for
shares of common stock can be surrendered by Quanta. The
4.5% convertible subordinated notes carry cross-default
provisions with Quanta’s credit facility and any other debt
instrument that exceeds $10.0 million in borrowings.

Senior
Secured Notes

In the fourth quarter of 2003, Quanta retired its
$210.0 million of senior secured notes and paid associated
make-whole prepayment premiums in the amount of
$31.3 million. The make-whole prepayment premiums, along
with the related unamortized debt issuance costs for the senior
notes in the amount of approximately $2.5 million were
expensed in the fourth quarter of 2003 as part of the loss on
early extinguishment of debt discussed below.

Loss
on Early Extinguishment of Debt

During the year ended December 31, 2003,
Quanta recognized a $35.1 million loss on early
extinguishment of debt relating to the termination of the 2000
Credit Facility and the retirement of the senior secured notes
discussed above. Included in this amount is a make-whole
prepayment premium for $31.3 million, write-off of
unamortized debt issuance costs of $3.3 million together
with other related costs of $0.5 million.

Maturities

The maturities of long-term debt obligations,
excluding capital leases, as of December 31, 2003, are as
follows (in thousands):



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

See discussion of capital leases in Note 13.

8.

INCOME TAXES:

The components of the provision (benefit) for
income taxes are as follows (in thousands):

Actual income tax provision (benefit) differs
from the income tax provision (benefit) computed by applying the
U.S. federal statutory corporate rate to the income before
provision for income taxes as follows (in thousands):



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Deferred income taxes result from temporary
differences in the recognition of income and expenses for
financial reporting purposes and for tax purposes. The tax
effects of these temporary differences, representing deferred
tax assets and liabilities, result principally from the
following (in thousands):

At December 31, 2003, Quanta had federal net
operating loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which is
approximately $10.4 million. These carryforwards, which may
provide future tax benefits, begin to expire in 2020. Quanta
also had state net operating loss carryforwards, the tax effect
of which is approximately $11.8 million. These
carryforwards will expire as follows: 2006, $0.1 million;
2007, $0.6 million; 2008, $1.1 million and
$10.0 million thereafter. As of December 31, 2003,
Quanta had a $31.3 million federal income tax receivable as
the result of a federal net operating loss incurred during 2003,
which currently is classified in Prepaid Expenses and Other
Current Assets. Quanta intends to file a carryback claim with
the Internal Revenue Service in 2004.

In assessing the value of deferred tax assets at
December 31, 2003, Quanta considered whether it was more
likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets
would not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax
assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income
during the periods in which those temporary differences become
deductible. Quanta considers the scheduled reversal of deferred
tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax
planning strategies in making this assessment. Based upon these
considerations, Quanta provided a valuation allowance to reduce
the carrying value of certain of its deferred tax assets to
their net expected realizable value at December 31, 2003. A
portion of the valuation allowance was recorded through the
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, as it
related to deferred tax assets recorded as part of the adoption
of SFAS No. 142.

9.

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY:

Series A Convertible Preferred
    Stock

In September 1999, Quanta issued shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, $.00001 par
value per share. The holders of the Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock were entitled to receive dividends in cash at a
rate of 0.5% per annum on an amount equal to $53.99 per share,
plus all unpaid dividends accrued. In connection with the First
Reserve Fund IX, L.P. (First Reserve) investment in Quanta,
on October 15, 2002,



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

First Reserve acquired approximately
0.9 million shares of our Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock. On October 15, 2002, First Reserve forgave
approximately $780,000 in dividends that had accrued on those
shares. During the fourth quarter of 2002, 245,000 shares
of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were converted into
shares of common stock. During the first quarter of 2003, all
remaining outstanding shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock were converted into shares of common stock and
the series was eliminated during the second quarter of 2003. Any
dividends that had accrued on the respective shares of
Series A Preferred Stock were forfeited and reversed on the
date of conversion.

Series E Preferred Stock and Redeemable
    Common Stock

During the fourth quarter of 2002, First Reserve
purchased from Quanta approximately 2.4 million shares of
newly issued Series E Preferred Stock at $30.00 per
share. The Series E Preferred Stock was converted into
24.3 million shares of common stock on December 31,
2002 and the series was eliminated during the second quarter of
2003.

The original as-converted share price negotiated
with First Reserve for the Series E Preferred Stock on
October 15, 2002 was $3.00 per share which was an
above market price. On December 20, 2002, the date First
Reserve purchased the Series E Preferred Stock,
Quanta’s stock closed at $3.35 per share. Accordingly,
Quanta recorded a non-cash beneficial conversion charge of
$8.5 million based on the $0.35 per share
differential. The non-cash beneficial conversion charge is
recognized as a deemed dividend to the Series E Preferred
Stockholder and is recorded as a decrease to net income
attributable to common stock and an increase in additional
paid-in capital. The non-cash beneficial conversion charge had
no effect on Quanta’s operating income, cash flows or
stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2002.

Through February 20, 2003, First Reserve had
the right to require Quanta to repurchase for cash the shares of
common stock issued as a result of the conversion of the shares
of Series E Preferred Stock if Quanta had a change in
control. As such, the $72.9 million investment was
reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as Redeemable Common
Stock at December 31, 2002. On February 20, 2003, at
the expiration of this right, the Redeemable Common Stock was
reclassified to stockholders’ equity.

In connection with their investment, First
Reserve is entitled to a pre-emptive right to purchase shares of
common stock upon Quanta’s issuance of shares to third
parties. During 2003, First Reserve acquired
1,201,128 shares pursuant to such right.

Stockholder Rights Plan

On March 8, 2000, the board of directors
adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan. The Stockholder Rights Plan
was amended several times in 2001 and 2002 and was amended and
restated on October 24, 2002. Under the Stockholder Rights
Plan, as amended, a dividend of one preferred share purchase
right (a Right) was declared on each outstanding share of
Quanta’s common stock (including Quanta’s limited vote
common stock) and Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (on
an as-converted basis) for holders of record as of the close of
business on March 27, 2000. The Rights also attach to all
common stock (including Quanta’s limited vote common stock)
and Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that become
outstanding between March 27, 2000 and the earliest of the
Distribution Date, the Redemption Date and the Final Expiration
Date (as such terms are defined in the Stockholder Rights Plan).
No separate certificates evidencing the Rights will be issued
unless and until they become exercisable. Each Right has an
initial exercise price of $153.33. The Rights will be
exercisable if a person or group (other than Aquila or First
Reserve and their transferees) becomes the beneficial owner of
15% or more of the voting power of Quanta’s common shares,
assuming conversion, or commences a tender offer which if
completed would result in that person or group becoming the
beneficial owner of 15% or more of Quanta’s common shares.
The Rights also will be exercisable if Aquila or First Reserve,
together with any affiliates or associates, becomes the
beneficial owner of more than 37.71% or 37.00%, respectively, of
the voting power of Quanta’s common shares, assuming
conversion. Upon a “Flip-In



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Event” as defined in the Stockholder Rights
Plan, the Rights held by anyone other than the Acquiring Person,
as defined in the Stockholder’s Rights Plan, and its
transferees would be exercisable for common stock of Quanta at a
discount. The Rights will expire on March 8, 2010.

The term “assuming conversion” means
assuming conversion of all outstanding equity securities,
whether or not then convertible, and excluding the conversion of
outstanding options, warrants and other similar rights. When
used in reference to First Reserve or any of its transferees,
however, “assuming conversion” means assuming
conversion of all outstanding equity securities, whether or not
then convertible, including the conversion of outstanding
options, warrants and other similar rights to acquire equity
securities of Quanta.

Limited Vote Common Stock

The shares of Limited Vote Common Stock have
rights similar to shares of common stock, except that such
shares are entitled to elect one member of the board of
directors and are entitled to one-tenth of one vote for each
share held on all other matters. Each share of Limited Vote
Common Stock will convert into common stock upon disposition by
the holder of such shares in accordance with the transfer
restrictions applicable to such shares. In 2001,
649,674 shares, in 2002, 32,488 shares and 2003,
16,000 shares of Limited Vote Common Stock, respectively,
were converted to common stock.

Treasury Stock

The board of directors of Quanta authorized a
Stock Repurchase Plan under which up to $75.0 million of
Quanta’s common stock could be repurchased. Under the Stock
Repurchase Plan, Quanta could conduct purchases through open
market transactions in accordance with applicable securities
laws. During 2001, Quanta purchased 986,000 shares of
common stock for approximately $15.3 million. On
March 13, 2002, the 986,000 shares of common stock
were sold to Quanta’s Stock Employee Compensation Trust
(SECT), a trust formed in 2002 to fund certain of Quanta’s
future employee benefit obligations using Quanta’s common
stock, and were no longer considered treasury stock. These
shares were subsequently retired on June 28, 2002, after
Quanta terminated the SECT. During the second quarter of 2002,
Quanta purchased 924,500 shares of its common stock for
approximately $11.7 million under the Stock Repurchase
Plan. As of July 1, 2002, the independent committee of
Quanta’s board of directors determined to cease the Stock
Repurchase Plan. Quanta acquired into treasury 1,871 shares
in 2002 and 69 shares in 2003, of previously restricted
stock for settlement of employee tax liabilities pursuant to the
2001 Stock Incentive Plan discussed in Note 10.

Deferred Compensation

Under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan discussed in
Note 10, shares of Quanta’s common stock are issued at
the fair market value of the common stock at the date of
issuance. As restricted stock, the shares are subject to
forfeiture and other restrictions until they vest, generally
over three years in equal annual installments. However, during
the restriction period, the plan participants are entitled to
vote and receive dividends on such shares. Upon issuance of
shares of restricted stock under the plan, an unamortized
compensation expense equivalent to the market value of the
shares on the date of grant is charged to stockholders’
equity and is amortized over the restriction period as non-cash
compensation expense. If shares of restricted stock are
cancelled during a given period, any remaining unamortized
deferred compensation expense related to the issuance is
reversed against additional paid-in capital. Compensation
expense recognized with respect to restricted stock awards
during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003 was
approximately $230,000, $219,000 and $2.8 million,
respectively.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

10.

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS:

Stock Incentive Plan

In December 1997, the board of directors adopted,
and the stockholders of Quanta approved, the 1997 Stock Option
Plan. In May 2000, the 1997 Stock Option Plan was amended to
expand the definition of “Stock” to include
Quanta’s Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, common
stock and Limited Vote Common Stock. In May 2001, the 1997 Stock
Option Plan was amended and renamed the 2001 Stock Incentive
Plan. In November 2001, the plan was amended to allow certain
employees to participate. The plan was further amended during
2002 to make explicit the Compensation Committee’s power to
grant shares of restricted stock in exchange for options and to
reduce the aggregate number of shares available for issuance
under the plan from 15% to 12% of the outstanding shares of
stock. The purpose of the plan is to provide directors, key
employees, officers and certain advisors with additional
incentives by increasing their proprietary interest in Quanta.

The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the
grant of incentive stock options (ISOs) as defined in
Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the Code), nonqualified stock options and restricted
stock (collectively, the Awards). The amount of ISOs that may be
granted under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan is limited to
3,571,275 shares. The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan is
administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors. The Compensation Committee has, subject to applicable
regulation and the terms of the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, the
authority to grant Awards under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan,
to construe and interpret the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan and to
make all other determinations and take any and all actions
necessary or advisable for the administration of the 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan; provided, however, that Quanta’s Chief
Executive Officer has the authority to grant restricted stock or
nonqualified stock options to individuals who are not officers,
provided that (i) the aggregate number of shares of common
stock issuable upon the exercise of non-qualified stock options
granted in any one calendar quarter does not exceed
100,000 shares and the aggregate value of awards of
restricted stock granted in any one calendar quarter does not
exceed $250,000 determined based on the fair market value of the
common stock at the time of the grants, and (ii) the
aggregate number of shares of common stock issuable upon the
exercise of non-qualified stock options granted to any
individual in any one calendar quarter does not exceed
20,000 shares of common stock and the aggregate value of
awards of restricted stock granted in any one calendar quarter
to any individual does not exceed $25,000 determined based on
the fair market value of the common stock at the time of the
grants.

All of Quanta’s employees (including
officers), non-employee directors and certain consultants and
advisors are eligible to receive Awards under the 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan, but only employees of Quanta are eligible to
receive ISOs. Awards will be exercisable during the period
specified in each Award agreement and will generally become
exercisable in installments pursuant to a vesting schedule
designated by the Compensation Committee. Unless specifically
provided otherwise in the Award agreement, Awards become
immediately vested and exercisable in the event of a
“change in control” (as defined in the 2001 Stock
Incentive Plan) of Quanta. No option will remain exercisable
later than ten years after the date of grant (or five years in
the case of ISOs granted to employees owning more than 10% of
the voting capital stock).



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table summarizes option activity
under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003 (shares in thousands):

Generally, options exercisable are based on term
vesting periods as outlined in each option agreement.

The following table summarizes information for
outstanding options at December 31, 2003 (shares in
thousands):



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As discussed below, on January 21, 2003,
Quanta offered eligible employees and consultants the
opportunity to exchange certain outstanding stock options, with
an exercise price of $10.00 or more, for restricted shares of
Quanta’s common stock at an exchange ratio of one share of
restricted stock for every 2.24 option shares tendered. The
remaining eligible options that were not exchanged will be
required to be accounted for under variable plan accounting
under APB Opinion No. 25. In the future, to the extent that
Quanta’s stock price exceeds the exercise price of an
eligible option that was not exchanged, the difference will be
recorded as a non-cash compensation charge with an offset to
additional paid-in capital. No charges have been recorded with
respect to these options under variable plan accounting through
December 31, 2003.

Restricted
Stock

Pursuant to the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan
discussed above, Quanta granted 72,701 shares,
95,903 shares, and 3,431,354 shares of restricted
stock with a weighted average grant price of $27.51, $3.27 and
$3.10, respectively, during the years ended December 31,
2001, 2002 and 2003.

On January 21, 2003, Quanta offered eligible
employees and consultants the opportunity to exchange certain
outstanding stock options, with an exercise price of $10.00 or
more, for restricted shares of Quanta’s common stock at an
exchange ratio of one share of restricted stock for every 2.24
option shares tendered. Regardless of the vesting schedule of
the eligible options offered for exchange, the restricted stock
granted in the offer vests on February 28 of each year,
beginning February 28, 2004, assuming the employee or
consultant continues to meet the requirements for vesting. On
March 10, 2003, Quanta accepted for exchange and canceled
eligible options to purchase an aggregate of
6,769,483 shares of its common stock, representing
approximately 93% of the 7,289,750 options that were eligible to
be tendered in the offer as of the expiration date. Pursuant to
the terms of the offer, Quanta granted restricted stock
representing an aggregate of 3,022,112 shares of its common
stock, or approximately $9.0 million in value, in exchange
for the tendered eligible options which will be amortized as
non-cash compensation expense over the three-year vesting period
of the restricted stock.

Employee
Stock Purchase Plan

An Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the ESPP) was
adopted by the board of directors of Quanta and was approved by
the stockholders of Quanta in May 1999. The purpose of the ESPP
is to provide an incentive for employees of Quanta and any
Participating Company (as defined in the ESPP) to acquire or
increase a proprietary interest in Quanta through the purchase
of shares of Quanta’s common stock. At the date hereof, all
of the existing subsidiaries of Quanta have been designated as
Participating Companies. The ESPP is intended to qualify as an
“Employee Stock Purchase Plan” under Section 423
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). The
provisions of the ESPP are construed in a manner consistent with
the requirements of that section of the Code. The ESPP is
administered by a committee, appointed from time to time, by the
board of directors. The ESPP is not subject to any of the
provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended. During 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively,
Quanta issued a total of 462,179 shares,
662,147 shares and 1,148,632 shares, respectively,
pursuant to the ESPP.

11.

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:

Union’s
Multi-Employer Pension Plans

In connection with its collective bargaining
agreements with various unions, Quanta participates with other
companies in the unions’ multi-employer pension plans.
These plans cover all of Quanta’s employees who are members
of such unions. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments
Act of 1980, imposes certain liabilities upon employers who are
contributors to a multi-employer plan in the event of the
employer’s withdrawal from, or upon termination of such
plan. Quanta has no plans to withdraw from these plans. The
plans do not maintain information on the



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

net assets and actuarial present value of the
plans’ unfunded vested benefits allocable to Quanta, and
the amounts, if any, for which Quanta may be contingently
liable, are not ascertainable at this time. Contributions to all
union multi-employer pension plans by Quanta were approximately
$41.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.

401(k)
Plan

Effective February 1, 1999, Quanta adopted a
401(k) plan pursuant to which employees who are not provided
retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement
may make contributions through a payroll deduction. Quanta will
make a matching cash contribution of 100% of each
employee’s contribution up to 3% of that employee’s
salary and 50% of each employee’s contribution between 3%
and 6% of such employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount
permitted by law. Prior to joining Quanta’s 401(k) plan,
certain subsidiaries of Quanta provided various defined
contribution plans to their employees. Contributions to all
non-union defined contribution plans by Quanta were
approximately $7.3 million, $7.2 million and
$6.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2002 and 2003, respectively.

12.

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS:

Aquila Inc. (Aquila) has made investments in
Quanta in the form of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock.
See additional discussion in Note 9. During 2003, Aquila
sold all investments in Quanta. Quanta had transactions in the
normal course of business with Aquila during 2003. Subsequent to
the initial investment by Aquila, revenues from Aquila in 2001,
2002 and 2003 were approximately $17.2 million,
$29.7 million and $15.4 million, respectively, and
balances due Quanta at year-end were approximately
$2.4 million, $2.6 million and $3.1 million,
respectively. In addition, Quanta performed work for an
affiliate of Aquila with revenues in 2001 and 2002 of
$19.3 million and $0.4 million, and balances due
Quanta at December 31, 2002 were approximately
$3.4 million.

Certain of Quanta’s subsidiaries have
entered into related party lease arrangements for operational
facilities. These lease agreements generally have a term of five
years. Related party lease expense for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively, was
approximately $2.8 million, $3.6 million and
$3.2 million.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

Leases

Quanta leases certain buildings and equipment
under non-cancelable lease agreements including related party
leases as discussed in Note 12. The following schedule
shows the future minimum lease payments under these leases as of
December 31, 2003 (in thousands):

Rent expense related to operating leases was
approximately $24.1 million, $31.3 million and
$48.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2002 and 2003, respectively. Assets under capital leases are
included as part of property and equipment.

Quanta has guaranteed the residual value on
certain of its equipment operating leases. Quanta guarantees the
difference between this residual value and the fair market value
of the underlying asset at the date of termination of the
leases. At December 31, 2003, the maximum guaranteed
residual value would have been approximately
$118.8 million. Quanta believes that no significant
payments will be made as a result of the difference between the
fair market value of the leased equipment and the guaranteed
residual value. However, there can be no assurance that future
significant payments will not be required.

Litigation

Quanta is from time to time party to various
other lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in
the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek,
among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury,
breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil
penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief.
With respect to such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, Quanta
accrues reserves when it is probable a liability has been
incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.
Quanta does not expect the outcome of any of these other
proceedings, separately or in the aggregate to have a material
adverse effect on Quanta’s results of operations or
financial position.

Performance
Bonds

In certain circumstances, Quanta is required to
provide performance bonds in connection with its contractual
commitments. Quanta has indemnified the surety for any expenses
potentially paid out under



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

these performance bonds. As of December 31,
2003, the total amount of outstanding performance bonds was
approximately $334.6 million.

Contingent
Payments

Quanta is subject to an agreement with the former
owners of an operating unit that was acquired in 2000. Under the
terms of this agreement and depending upon the ultimate
profitability or losses on certain projects and the collection
of the underlying receivables, Quanta may be required to make
additional payments to such former owners with a combination of
common stock and cash. At December 31, 2003, the amount of
additional payments based on performance to date could equal up
to $15.5 million, depending on the contingencies outlined
above. This amount may be adjusted significantly higher or lower
over the term of the agreement.

Employment
Agreements

Quanta has entered into various employment
agreements with certain executives which provide for
compensation and certain other benefits and for severance
payments under certain circumstances. In addition, certain
employment agreements contain clauses which become effective
upon a change of control of Quanta. Upon any of the defined
events in the various employment agreements, Quanta will pay
certain amounts to the employee, which vary with the level of
the employee’s responsibility.

Other

During the course of its operations, Quanta is
subject to audit by tax authorities for varying periods in
various federal, state and local foreign tax jurisdictions.
Disputes arise during the course of such audits as to facts and
matters of law.

Quanta has indemnified various parties against
specified liabilities that those parties might incur in the
future in connection with companies previously acquired or
disposed of by Quanta. These indemnities usually are contingent
upon the other party incurring liabilities that reach specified
thresholds. As of December 31, 2003, Quanta is not aware of
circumstances that would lead to future indemnity claims against
it for material amounts in connection with these transactions.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

14.

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
    (UNAUDITED):

The table below sets forth the unaudited
consolidated operating results by quarter for the years ended
December 31, 2002 and 2003 (in thousands, except per share
information).

The sum of the individual quarterly earnings per
share amounts may not agree with year-to-date earnings per share
as each period’s computation is based on the weighted
average number of shares outstanding during the period.

15.

SEGMENT INFORMATION:

Quanta has aggregated each of its individual
operating units into one reportable segment as a specialty
contractor. Quanta provides comprehensive network solutions to
the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
industries, including designing, installing, repairing and
maintaining network infrastructure. In addition, Quanta provides
ancillary services such as inside electrical wiring, intelligent
traffic networks, cable and control systems for light rail
lines, airports and highways, and specialty rock trenching,
directional boring and road milling for industrial and
commercial customers. Each of these services is provided



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND
SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

by various Quanta subsidiaries and discrete
financial information is not provided to management at the
service level. The following table presents information
regarding revenues derived from the industries noted above.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior periods in
order to conform to the current period presentation.

Quanta does not have significant operations or
long-lived assets in countries outside of the United States. We
derived $15.1 million of our revenues from foreign
operations during 2003.



ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

On June 28, 2002, Quanta dismissed its former
independent public accountants and appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as its new independent public
accountants for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2002.
This determination followed Quanta’s decision to seek
proposals from independent public accountants to audit the
financial statements of Quanta, and was approved by
Quanta’s board of directors upon the recommendation of its
Audit Committee. Prior to the selection of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Arthur Andersen LLP served as the
company’s independent auditors.

Arthur Andersen’s reports on Quanta’s
consolidated financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 2001 did not contain an adverse opinion or
disclaimer of opinion, nor were they qualified or modified as to
uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles.

During the year ended December 31, 2001 and
through June 28, 2002, there were no disagreements with
Arthur Andersen on any matter of accounting principle or
practice, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or
procedure which, if not resolved to Arthur Andersen’s
satisfaction, would have caused them to make reference to the
subject matter in connection with their report on Quanta’s
consolidated financial statements for such years. During the
year ended December 31, 2001 and through June 28,
2002, there were no reportable events of the kind listed in
Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K. Quanta requested
that Arthur Andersen furnish a letter addressed to the
Securities and Exchange Commission stating whether or not they
agreed with the statements made in the Form 8-K filed on
July 8, 2002. A letter was received from Arthur Andersen
that corroborated the statements contained in the Form 8-K
and was filed with the Form 8-K and is incorporated by
reference into this Form 10-K as exhibit 16.1.

During the year ended December 31, 2001 and
through June 28, 2002. Quanta did not consult with
PricewaterhouseCoopers regarding any of the matters or events
set forth in Item 304(a)(2)(i) or (ii) of
Regulation S-K.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Our management evaluated, with the participation
of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange
Act)), as of December 31, 2003. Based on their evaluation,
our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
were effective as of December 31, 2003.

There has been no change in our internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the
quarter ended December 31, 2003, that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

The information required by Item 10 is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in
Quanta’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 11 is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in
Quanta’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management

The information required by Item 12 is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in
Quanta’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.



ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

The information required by Item 13 is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in
Quanta’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and
    Services

The information required by Item 14 is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in
Quanta’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
    and Reports on Form 8-K

The following financial statements, schedules and
exhibits are filed as part of this Report

(1) Financial Statements. Reference is made
to the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on
page      of this Report.

(2) All schedules are omitted because they
are not applicable or the required information is shown in the
financial statements or the notes to the financial statements.

(3) Exhibits







*

Management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K:



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Quanta
Services, Inc. has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the
City of Houston, State of Texas, on March 12, 2004.

QUANTA SERVICES, INC.

By

/s/ JOHN R. COLSON

John R. Colson

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed by the
following persons in the capacities indicated on March 12,
2004.



INDEX TO EXHIBITS



*

Management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements