10-K


h22727e10vk.htm

QUANTA SERVICES, INC. - DECEMBER 31, 2004

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Commission file number 1-13831

Quanta Services, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

74-2851603

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

1360 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 2100

Houston, Texas 77056

(Address of principal executive offices, including ZIP
Code)

(713) 629-7600

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, $.00001 par value

(including rights attached thereto)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act:

Title of Each Class

None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days:     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statement incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated
filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).     Yes

þ

No

o

As of June 30, 2004, the aggregate market value of the
Common Stock and Limited Vote Common Stock of the
Registrant held by non-affiliates of the Registrant, based on
the last sale price of the Common Stock on such date, was
approximately $372.8 million and $4.5 million,
respectively (for purposes of calculating these amounts, only
directors, officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of the
outstanding capital stock of the Registrant have been deemed
affiliates).

As of March 10, 2005, the number of outstanding shares of
the Common Stock of the Registrant was 116,086,371. As of the
same date, 1,011,780 shares of Limited Vote Common
Stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for
the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

QUANTA SERVICES, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

For the Year Ended December 31, 2004

INDEX



PART I

ITEM 1.

Business

General

Quanta is a leading provider of specialty contracting services,
offering end-to-end network solutions to the electric power,
gas, telecommunications, cable television, and specialty
services industries. We believe that we are the largest
contractor serving the transmission and distribution sector of
the North American electric utility industry. Our consolidated
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 were
$1.6 billion, of which 64.7% was attributable to electric
power and gas customers, 16.8% to telecommunications and cable
television system operators and 18.5% to ancillary services,
such as inside electrical wiring, intelligent traffic networks,
cable and control systems for light rail lines, airports and
highways, and specialty rock trenching, directional boring and
road milling for industrial and commercial customers. We were
organized in the state of Delaware in 1997 and since that time
have made strategic acquisitions to expand our geographic
presence, generate operating synergies with existing businesses
and develop new capabilities to meet our customers’
evolving needs.

We have established a nationwide presence with a workforce of
over 10,000 employees, which enables us to quickly and reliably
serve our diversified customer base. Our customers include many
of the leading companies in the industries we serve.

Representative customers include:

• Alabama Power

• American Electric Power

• Alltel

• CenterPoint Energy

• Century Telephone

• Entergy

• Ericsson

• Florida Power & Light

• Georgia Power Company

• Intermountain Rural Electric

• MidAmerican Energy

• Pacific Gas & Electric

• Progress Energy

• Puget Sound Energy

• San Diego Gas & Electric

• Southern California Edison

• Verizon

• WE Energies

Our reputation for responsiveness, performance, geographic reach
and a comprehensive service offering has also enabled us to
develop strong strategic alliances with numerous customers.

Industry Overview

We estimate that the total amount of annual outsourced
infrastructure spending in the three primary industries we serve
is in excess of $30 billion. We believe that we are the
largest specialty contractor providing services for the
installation and maintenance of network infrastructure and that
we and the other five largest specialty contractors providing
these services account for less than 15% of this market.
Smaller, typically private companies provide the balance of
these services.

We believe the following industry trends impact demand for our
services:

Increased opportunities in Fiber to the Premises, or FTTP,
and Fiber to the Node, or FTTN.

We believe that several of
the large telecommunications companies are increasing their
spending, particularly for FTTP and FTTN initiatives.
Initiatives for this last-mile fiber build-out have been
announced by Verizon and SBC as well as municipalities
throughout the United States. In late 2004, Verizon added six
states to its deployment plan, with a stated goal to access two
million homes during 2005. SBC has announced plans to deliver
Internet telephone service to 18 million homes by the end
of 2007, including the installation of more than
38,000 miles of fiber at an estimated cost of
$4 billion. This fiber will deliver integrated IP-based
television, high-speed Internet and IP voice and wireless
bundles of products and services. As a result of these efforts,
we expect an increase in demand for our telecommunications and
underground construction services over the next few years. While
not all of this spending will be for services that we provide,
we believe that we are well positioned to furnish infrastructure
solutions on a rapid basis for these initiatives.



Increased capital expenditures resulting from improved
customer balance sheets.

During the last several years, the
industries we serve suffered a severe downturn that resulted in
a number of companies, including several of our customers,
filing for bankruptcy protection or experiencing financial
difficulties. We believe that as our customers continue to
improve their balance sheets, both capital spending and
maintenance budgets will stabilize and move toward historical
levels.

Increased outsourcing of network infrastructure installation
and maintenance.

Financial and economic pressures on
electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
providers have caused an increased focus by providers on core
competencies and, accordingly, an increase in the outsourcing of
network services. Total employment in the electric utility
industry declined dramatically in the last decade, reflecting,
in part, the outsourcing trend by utilities. We believe that by
outsourcing network services to third-party service providers,
our customers can reduce costs, provide flexibility in budgets
and improve service and performance. As a specialty contractor
with nationwide scope, we are able to leverage our existing
labor force and equipment infrastructure across multiple
customers and projects, resulting in better utilization of labor
and assets.

Increasing need to upgrade electric power transmission and
distribution networks.

The nation’s electrical power
grid is aging and requires significant maintenance and expansion
to handle the country’s current and growing power needs.
While the demand for electricity has grown, transmission
capacity has decreased over the last ten years. The awareness of
the need to upgrade the nation’s electrical power grid was
heightened by the largest blackout in North America’s
history on August 14, 2003. Additionally, as the selling of
electricity increases across regional networks, capacity and
reliability will become more important. We believe the current
spending level is insufficient to adequately address future
infrastructure maintenance requirements.

Increased demand for comprehensive end-to-end solutions.

We believe that electric power, gas, telecommunications and
cable television companies will continue to seek service
providers who can design, install and maintain their networks on
a quick and reliable, yet cost effective basis. Accordingly,
they are partnering with proven full-service network providers,
like us, with broad geographic reach, financial capability and
technical expertise.

Strengths

Geographic reach and significant size and scale.

As a
result of our nationwide operations and significant scale, we
are able to deploy services to customers across the United
States. This capability is particularly important to our
customers who operate networks that span multiple states or
regions. The scale of our operations also allows us to mobilize
significant numbers of employees on short notice for emergency
service restoration. For example, after the damage from
Hurricane Frances in August 2004, we quickly deployed
approximately 1,300 workers to Florida to restore affected power
lines.

Strong financial profile.

Our strong liquidity position
provides us with the flexibility to capitalize on new business
and growth opportunities. As of December 31, 2004, we had
$265.6 million in cash and cash equivalents on our balance
sheet and no significant debt obligations maturing before 2007.

Strong and diverse customer relationships.

We have
established a solid base of long-standing customer relationships
by providing high quality service in a cost-efficient and timely
manner. We enjoy multi-year relationships with many of our
customers. In some cases, these relationships are decades old.
We derive a significant portion of our revenues from strategic
alliances or long-term maintenance agreements with our
customers, which we believe offer opportunities for future
growth. For example, certain of our strategic alliances contain
an exclusivity clause or a right of first refusal for a certain
type of work or in a certain geographic region.

Proprietary technology.

Our electric power customers
benefit from our ability to perform services without
interrupting power service to their customers, which we refer to
as energized services. Our proprietary
LineMaster

tm

robotic arm technology enhances our ability to deliver these
energized services to our customers. We own the U.S. rights
and the exclusive right to use the
LineMaster

tm

robotic arm for more than the next 10 years. We believe
that delivery of energized services is a significant factor in
differentiating us from



our competition and winning new business. Our energized services
workforce is specially trained to deliver these services and
operate the
LineMaster

tm

robotic arm.

Delivery of comprehensive end-to-end solutions.

We are
one of the few network service providers capable of regularly
delivering end-to-end solutions on a nationwide basis. As
companies in the electric power, gas, telecommunications and
cable television industries continue to search for service
providers who can effectively design, install and maintain their
networks, we believe that our service, industry and geographical
breadth place us in a strong position to meet these needs.

Experienced management team.

Our senior management team
has an average of 28 years of experience within the
contracting industry, and our operating unit executives average
over 25 years of experience in their respective industries.

Strategy

The key elements of our business strategy are:

Focus on expanding operating efficiencies.

We intend to
continue to:

Focus on organic growth and leveraging existing customer
relationships.

We believe we can improve our rate of organic
growth by expanding the breadth of products and solutions for
our existing and potential customer base. We believe the
combination of promoting best practices and cross-selling
products to our customers positions us well for an improving
end-market environment.

Expand portfolio of services to meet customers’ evolving
needs.

We continue to offer an expanding portfolio of
services that allows us to develop, build and maintain networks
on both a regional and national scale and adapt to our
customers’ changing needs. We intend to expand further our
geographic and technological capabilities through both internal
development and innovation and through selective acquisitions.

Pursue new business opportunities.

We continuously
evaluate and pursue new business opportunities. Our subsidiary,
Quanta Government Solutions (QGS), leverages our core expertise
in pursuing additional opportunities in the government arena.
QGS was formed to respond, as prime contractor, to requests for
proposals from the U.S. government for power and
communications infrastructure projects in the United States and
overseas.

Services

We design, install and maintain networks for the electric power,
gas, telecommunications and cable television industries as well
as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. The
following provides an overview of the types of services we
provide:

Electric power and gas network services.

We provide a
variety of end-to-end services to the electric power and gas
industries, including:

•

installation, repair and maintenance of electric power
    transmission lines ranging in capacity from 69,000 volts to
    765,000 volts;

•

installation, repair and maintenance of electric power
    distribution networks;



Telecommunications and cable television network services.

Our telecommunications and cable television network services
include:

Ancillary services.

We provide a variety of comprehensive
ancillary services to commercial, industrial and governmental
entities, including:

•

design, installation, maintenance and repair of electrical
    components, fiber optic cabling and building control and
    automation systems;

•

installation of intelligent traffic networks such as traffic
    signals, controllers, connecting signals, variable message
    signs, closed circuit television and other monitoring devices
    for governments;

•

installation of cable and control systems for light rail lines,
    airports and highways; and



•

provision of specialty rock trenching, rock saw, rock wheel,
    directional boring and road milling for industrial and
    commercial customers.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

During the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, we
operated primarily in the United States. We derived
$8.5 million, $15.1 million and $22.8 million of
our revenues from foreign operations during the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. As of
December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, we held property and
equipment in the amount of $1.0 million, $1.9 million
and $3.1 million, respectively, in foreign countries.

Our business, financial condition and results of operations in
foreign countries may be adversely impacted by monetary and
fiscal policies, currency fluctuations, energy shortages and
other political, social and economic development.

Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred Provider
Relationships

Our customers include electric power, gas, telecommunications
and cable television companies, as well as commercial,
industrial and governmental entities. Our 10 largest customers
accounted for 29.5% of our consolidated revenues in 2004. Our
largest customer accounted for approximately 6.1% of our
consolidated revenues for the year ended 2004.

Although we have a centralized marketing strategy, management at
each of our operating units is responsible for developing and
maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers.
Our management is incented to cross-sell services of other
operating units to their customers. In addition, our business
development group promotes and markets our services for
prospective large national accounts and projects that would
require services from multiple operating units.

Many of our customers and prospective customers have
qualification procedures for approved bidders or vendors based
upon the satisfaction of particular performance and safety
standards set by the customer. These customers typically
maintain a list of vendors meeting these standards and award
contracts for individual jobs only to those vendors. We strive
to maintain our status as a preferred or qualified vendor to
these customers.

We believe that our strategic relationships with large providers
of electric power and telecommunications services will offer
opportunities for future growth. Many of these strategic
relationships take the form of a strategic alliance or long-term
maintenance agreement. Strategic alliance agreements generally
state an intention to work together and many provide us with
preferential bidding procedures. Strategic alliances and
long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an
initial term of approximately two to four years that may include
an option to add a one to two year extension at the end of the
initial term. Certain of our strategic alliance and long-term
maintenance agreements are “evergreen” contracts with
exclusivity clauses providing that we will be awarded all
contracts, or a right of first refusal, for a certain type of
work or in a certain geographic region. None of these contracts,
however, guarantees a specific dollar amount of work to be
performed by us.

Backlog

Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to
realize from work to be performed over the next twelve months on
uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on
which work has not begun. Our backlog at December 31, 2003
and 2004 was approximately $1.01 billion and
$1.07 billion. In many instances, our customers are not
contractually committed to specific volumes of services under
our long-term maintenance contracts and many of our contracts
may be terminated with notice. There can be no assurance as to
our customer’s requirements or that our estimates are
accurate.

Competition

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We
compete with other independent contractors in most of the
geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our
competitors are large domestic



companies that may have greater financial, technical and
marketing resources than we do. In addition, there are
relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in
which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has
adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise
may become a competitor. A significant portion of our revenues
is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements,
and price is often an important factor in the award of such
agreements. Accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors
in an effort by them to procure such business. We believe that
as demand for our services increases, customers will
increasingly consider other factors in choosing a service
provider, including technical expertise and experience,
financial and operational resources, nationwide presence,
industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to
benefit contractors such as us. There can be no assurance,
however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise,
experience and resources to provide services that are superior
in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be
able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We may
also face competition from the in-house service organizations of
our existing or prospective customers, including electric power,
gas, telecommunications and cable television companies, which
employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services
as those provided by us. Although a significant portion of these
services is currently outsourced by our customers, there can be
no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will
continue to outsource services in the future.

Employees

As of December 31, 2004, we had 1,412 salaried employees,
including executive officers, project managers or engineers, job
superintendents, staff and clerical personnel and
9,408 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates
depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake
at any particular time. Approximately 46% of our employees at
December 31, 2004 were covered by collective bargaining
agreements, primarily with the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers (IBEW). Under our agreements with our unions,
we agree to pay specified wages to our union employees, observe
certain workplace rules and make employee benefit payments to
multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather
than administering the funds on behalf of these employees. These
collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and
expiration dates. The majority of the collective bargaining
agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or
strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to
agreement renewal, and provide for binding arbitration dispute
resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement.

We provide a health, welfare and benefit plan for employees who
are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have a
401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not
provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining
agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. We
make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee’s
contribution up to 3% of that employee’s salary and 50% of
each employee’s contribution between 3% and 6% of such
employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by
law. We also have an employee stock purchase plan that provides
that eligible employees may contribute up to 10% of their cash
compensation, not to exceed $21,250 annually, toward the
semi-annual purchase of our common stock at a discounted price.
Over 700 of our employees participated in the employee stock
purchase plan during the year ended December 31, 2004.

Our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in
certain geographic areas. In response to the shortage, we seek
to take advantage of various IBEW and National Electrical
Contractors Association (NECA) referral programs and hire
graduates from the joint IBEW/ NECA apprenticeship program which
trains qualified electrical workers.

We believe our relationships with our employees and union
representatives are good.

Materials

Our customers typically supply most or all of the materials
required for each job. However, for some of our contracts, we
may procure all or part of the materials required. We purchase
such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate
experiencing any difficulties in procuring such materials.



Training, Quality Assurance and Safety

Performance of our services requires the use of equipment and
exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. Although we are
committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have
been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees,
customers and third parties for property damage and personal
injuries resulting from performance of our services. Our
policies require that employees complete the prescribed training
and service program of the operating unit for which they work in
addition to those required, if applicable, by the IBEW and NECA
prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs. For
example, all journeyman linemen are required by the IBEW and
NECA to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job
training, approximately 200 hours of classroom education
and extensive testing and certification. Each operating unit
requires additional training, depending upon the sophistication
and technical requirements of each particular job. We have
established company-wide training and educational programs, as
well as comprehensive safety policies and regulations, by
sharing “best practices” throughout our operations.

Regulation

Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local
laws and regulations including:

We believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our
operations and that we are in substantial compliance with
applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with
applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or
revocation of our operating licenses.

Environmental Matters

We are committed to the protection of the environment and train
our employees to perform their duties accordingly. We are
subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental laws
and regulations governing our operations, including the
handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and
hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and
discharges into the environment, including discharges to air,
surface water and groundwater and soil. We also are subject to
laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup
responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the
environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such
liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or
operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances
or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our
facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the
contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or
disposal. The presence of contamination from such substances or
wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely
affect our ability to sell, lease, or use our properties as
collateral for financing. In addition, we could be held liable
for significant penalties and damages under environmental laws
and could also be subject to a revocation of licenses or
permits, which could materially and adversely affect our
business and results of operations.

From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for
correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for
remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. We
believe we have complied with, or are currently complying with,
our environmental obligations to date and that such liabilities
will not have a material adverse effect on our business or
financial performance.

Risk Management and Insurance

The primary risks in our operations are bodily injury and
property damage. We are insured for employer’s liability
and general liability claims, subject to a deductible of
$1,000,000 per occurrence and for auto liability



and workers’ compensation claims subject to a deductible of
$2,000,000 per occurrence. We also have a corporate
non-union employee related health care benefit plan that is
subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year.
Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our
estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an
estimate of claims incurred but not reported. The accruals are
based upon known facts and historical trends and management
believes such accruals to be adequate. However, insurance
liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to the many
relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown,
including the severity of an injury, the determination of our
liability in proportion to other parties, the number of
incidents not yet reported and the effectiveness of our safety
program. In an effort to mitigate our exposure, we implemented a
new company-wide safety initiative in 2004 to enhance our
existing safety program.

Our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from
August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 is experiencing
financial distress, but is currently paying valid claims. In the
event that this insurer’s financial situation further
deteriorates, we may be required to pay certain obligations that
otherwise would have been paid by this insurer. We estimate that
the total future claim amount that this insurer is currently
obligated to pay on our behalf for the above-mentioned policy
periods is approximately $4.0 million; however, our
estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts is
between $2.0 million and $9.0 million. The actual
amounts ultimately paid by us related to these claims, if any,
may vary materially from the above range and could be impacted
by further claims development and the extent to which the
insurer could not honor its obligations. We continue to monitor
the financial situation of this insurer and analyze any
alternative actions that could be pursued. In any event, we do
not expect any failure by this insurer to honor its obligations
to us, or any alternative actions we may pursue, to have a
material adverse impact on our financial condition; however, the
impact could be material to our results of operations or cash
flow in a given period.

Website Access

Our website address is www.quantaservices.com. You may obtain
free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form  10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports in our
Investor Center under the heading “SEC Filings.” These
reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish
them to, the SEC. In addition, our corporate governance
guidelines, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters
of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance
and Nominating Committee are posted on our website under the
heading “Corporate Governance.” We intend to disclose
on our website any amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics
and Business Conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant
to Item 5.05 of Form 8-K. You may obtain free copies
of these items from our website or by contacting our Corporate
Secretary.

Annual CEO Certification

As required by New York Stock Exchange rules, on June 11,
2004 we submitted an annual certification signed by our Chief
Executive Officer certifying that he was not aware of any
violation by us of New York Stock Exchange corporate governance
listing standards as of the date of the certification.

Risk Factors

Our business is subject to a variety of risks, including the
risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described
below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks
and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may
also impair our business operations. If any of the following
risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and
results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to
achieve our goals. This Annual Report also includes statements
reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions,
or beliefs about future events that are intended as
“forward-looking statements” under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in
conjunction with the section entitled

“Uncertainty of
Forward-Looking Statements and Information.”



Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to
quarter.

We experience lower gross and operating margins
during winter months due to lower demand for our services and
more difficult operating conditions. Additionally, our quarterly
results may also be materially and adversely affected by:

Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may
not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any
other quarter or for the entire year.

An economic downturn may lead to less demand for our
services.

If the general level of economic activity remains
slow or deteriorates further, our customers may delay or cancel
new projects. The telecommunications and utility markets
experienced substantial change during 2002 and 2003 as evidenced
by an increased number of bankruptcies in the telecommunications
market, continued devaluation of many of our customers’
debt and equity securities and pricing pressures resulting from
challenges faced by major industry participants. These factors
have contributed to the delay and cancellation of projects and
reduction of capital spending that have impacted our operations
and ability to grow at historical levels. A number of other
factors, including financing conditions for and potential
bankruptcies in the industries we serve, could adversely affect
our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital
expenditures in the future or pay for past services. In
addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in
the electric power, gas, telecommunications or cable television
industries may result in reduced spending by, or the loss of,
one or more of our customers.

Our industry is highly competitive.

Our industry is
served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, a
few public companies and several large regional companies. In
addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some of our
industries. As a result, any organization that has adequate
financial resources and access to technical expertise may become
one of our competitors. Competition in the industry depends on a
number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors
may have lower overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be
able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able
to provide. In addition, some of our competitors have greater
resources than we do. We cannot be certain that our competitors
will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to
provide services that are superior in both price and quality to
our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be
able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our
industry or maintain a customer base at current levels. We may
also face competition from the in-house service organizations of
our existing or prospective customers. Electric power, gas,
telecommunications and cable television service providers
usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of
services we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or
prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the
future.



We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services,
and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have,
difficulty collecting receivables from major customers that have
filed bankruptcy or are otherwise experiencing financial
difficulties.

We grant credit, generally without collateral,
to our customers, which include electric power and gas
companies, telecommunications and cable television system
operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and
builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial
properties located primarily in the United States. Consequently,
we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in
business and economic factors throughout the United States. Our
customers in the telecommunications business have experienced
significant financial difficulties and in several instances have
filed for bankruptcy. A number of our utility customers are also
experiencing business challenges in the current business
climate. If additional major customers file for bankruptcy or
continue to experience financial difficulties, or if anticipated
recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or
other workout situations fail to materialize, we could
experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current
allowances provided. In addition, material changes in any of our
customer’s revenues or cash flows could affect our ability
to collect amounts due from them. As of December 31, 2004,
total current and non-current accounts and notes receivable were
$368.7 million, net of allowances for doubtful accounts of
$52.6 million.

Our casualty insurance carrier for prior periods is
experiencing financial distress, which may require us to make
payments for losses that would otherwise be insured.

Our
casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from
August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 is experiencing
financial distress, but is currently paying valid claims. In the
event that this insurer’s financial situation deteriorates,
we may be required to pay certain obligations that otherwise
would have been paid by this insurer. We estimate that the total
future claim amount that this insurer is currently obligated to
pay on our behalf for the above-mentioned policy periods is
approximately $4.0 million; however, our estimate of the
potential range of these future claim amounts is between
$2.0 million and $9.0 million. The actual amounts
ultimately paid by us related to these claims, if any, may vary
materially from the above range and could be impacted by further
claims development and the extent to which the insurer can not
honor its obligations. In any event, we do not expect any
failure by this insurer to honor its obligations to us to have a
material adverse impact on our financial condition; however, the
impact could be material to our results of operations or cash
flow in a given period.

We are self-insured against potential liabilities.

Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to
automobile, general liability, workers’ compensation and
employers’ liability, those policies are subject to
deductibles of $1,000,000 to $2,000,000 per occurrence, and
we are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed
the amount of the applicable deductible. We also maintain a
non-union employee related health care benefit plan that is
subject to a deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year.
Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our
estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an
estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. However,
insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due
to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the
determination of our liability in proportion to other parties,
the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of
our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or
costs significantly above our estimates, our results of
operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given
period.

We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact
relating to occupational health and safety matters.

Our
operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations
relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace.
While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial
resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our
industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there
can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability
exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate
precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may
suffer additional fatalities in the future. Claims for damages
to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life,
could result in substantial costs and liabilities. In addition,
if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over
time, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us
future business.

Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result
in a reduction or elimination of previously reported
profits.

As discussed in “Critical Accounting
Policies” and in the notes to our consolidated financial
statements included herein, a significant portion of our
revenues is recognized on a percentage-of-completion method of
accounting, using the cost-to-cost method. This method is used
because management considers



expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on
these contracts. This accounting method is standard for
fixed-price contracts. The percentage-of-completion accounting
practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and
earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our
incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized
on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract
revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are
recognized in full when determined, and contract profit
estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract
profitability. Further, a substantial portion of our contracts
contain various cost and performance incentives. Penalties are
recorded when known or finalized, which is generally during the
latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record cost
recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the
amounts can be reasonably estimated. Actual collection of claims
could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a
reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In
certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments
could be significant.

Our dependence upon fixed price contracts could adversely
affect our business.

We currently generate, and expect to
continue to generate, a portion of our revenues under fixed
price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a
particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. The cost of
labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we
originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks
inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual
revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we
originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability
or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular
project, variations from the estimated contract costs can have a
significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal
quarter or year.

The industries we serve are subject to rapid technological
and structural changes that could reduce the demand for the
services we provide.

The electric power, gas,
telecommunications and cable television industries are
undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances
that could, in certain cases, reduce the demand for our services
or otherwise negatively impact our business. New or developing
technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice,
video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing
technology may allow telecommunications and cable television
companies to significantly improve their networks without
physically upgrading them.

A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide
surety bonds. We may be unable to compete for or work on certain
projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety
bonds.

Surety market conditions are currently difficult as a
result of significant losses incurred by many sureties in recent
periods, both in the construction industry as well as in certain
larger corporate bankruptcies. As a result, less bonding
capacity is available in the market and terms have become more
expensive and restrictive. We have posted a $10.0 million
letter of credit to support our surety bond program and have
granted security interests in various of our assets to
collateralize our obligations to the surety. Further, under
standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue
bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue
bonds at any time or require the posting of additional
collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds.

Current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our
surety’s assessment of our operating and financial risk,
could cause our surety provider to decline to issue or renew, or
substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could
increase our bonding costs. These actions can be taken on short
notice. If our surety provider were to limit or eliminate our
access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking
bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that
does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for
project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may
be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on
acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to
experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of
bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on
certain projects.

Many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice, and we
may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts if they are
cancelled or as they are completed or expire.

We could
experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity
if any of the following occur:

•

our customers cancel a significant number of contracts;

•

we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts
    upon re-bid;



•

we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and
    cannot replace them with similar projects; or

•

we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent
    with any decrease in our revenue.

Many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice,
typically 30-90 days, even if we are not in default under
the contract. Certain of our customers assign work to us on a
project-by-project basis under master service agreements. Under
these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to
assign a specific amount of work to us. Our operations could
decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not
assigned to us. Many of our contracts, including our master
service contracts, are opened to public bid at the expiration of
their terms. There can be no assurance that we will be the
successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for bid.

We may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that we
either have acquired or that we may acquire in the future.

We cannot be sure that we can successfully integrate our
acquired companies with our existing operations without
substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial
problems. If we do not implement proper overall business
controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in
inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies
we acquire and our overall profitability could be adversely
affected. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number
of special risks which could have a negative impact on our
business, financial condition and results of operations,
including:

If one of our acquired companies suffers customer
dissatisfaction or performance problems, the reputation of our
entire company could suffer.

The departure of key personnel could disrupt our
business.

We depend on the continued efforts of our
executive officers and on senior management of the businesses we
acquire. Although we have entered into employment agreements
with terms of one to three years with most of our executive
officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain
that any individual will continue in such capacity for any
particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the
inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could
negatively impact our ability to manage our business. We do not
carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees.

Our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations
and our ability to complete future acquisitions.

As of
December 31, 2004, approximately 46% of our employees were
covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although the
majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work
stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages
will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would
adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could
cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. In addition,
our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely
affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons.
For instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the
union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some
businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union based
company.

Our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to
attract and retain qualified employees.

Our ability to
maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by
our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel
necessary to meet our requirements. We may experience shortages
of qualified journeyman linemen. We cannot be certain that we
will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force
necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth
strategy or that our labor expenses will not increase as a
result of



a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. Labor
shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to
maintain our business or grow our revenues.

Our business growth could outpace the capability of our
corporate management infrastructure.

We cannot be certain
that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our
operations as they expand. Future growth also could impose
significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior
management, including the need to recruit and integrate new
senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that
we can recruit and retain such additional managers and
executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our
growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain
additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand
our operations or execute our business plan.

Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in
significant liabilities.

Our operations are subject to
various environmental laws and regulations, including those
dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, PCBs,
fuel storage and air quality. We perform work in many different
types of underground environments. If the field location maps
supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in
the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our
underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which
may contain pollutants. In such cases, these objects may
rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. If we are
unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the
incorrect information, we may be liable for fines and damages.
In addition, we perform directional drilling operations below
certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. Due
to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it
is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface
fracture releasing subsurface materials. These releases may
contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law,
potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. We own
and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment.
Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which may be
above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be
responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential
fines.

In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of
existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously
unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new
clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant
costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that
could harm our financial condition and results of operations. In
certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants
from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such
cleanup and other obligations and liabilities that we believe
are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. However,
such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of
our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or
future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse
effect on our business operations or financial condition.
Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify
or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities
relating to any acquired business.

Opportunities within the government arena could lead to
increased governmental regulation applicable to Quanta and
unrecoverable start up costs.

Most government contracts are
awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. As we
pursue increased opportunities in the government arena
management’s focus associated with the start up and bidding
process may be diverted away from other opportunities. If we
were to be successful in being awarded government contracts, a
significant amount of costs could be required before any
revenues were realized from these contracts. In addition, as a
government contractor we would be subject to a number of
procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any
deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a
loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and
investigate government contractors. Government agencies may
review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost
structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and
standards. If government agencies determine through these audits
or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific
contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those
costs or may require the contractor to refund previously
reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we
engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and
criminal penalties. In addition, if the government were to even
allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm
to our reputation. Many government contracts must be
appropriated each year. If appropriations are not made in
subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential
revenues from any awarded contracts.



We may not be successful in continuing to meet the
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

The
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has introduced many requirements
applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial
reporting, including the requirements, beginning with this 2004
Annual Report, for management to report on our internal controls
over financial reporting and for our independent registered
public accounting firm to attest to this report. During 2004, we
continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these
requirements, including but not limited to, the engaging of
outside experts to assist in the evaluation of our controls,
adding staff to our internal audit department and documenting
our existing controls. As of December 31, 2004, we were in
compliance, however, there can be no assurance that we will be
successful in complying in future years. Failure to maintain
compliance could result in a decrease in the market value of our
common stock and other publicly-traded securities, the reduced
ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties
and additional expenditures to meet the requirements.

We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to
finance desired growth.

If we cannot secure additional
financing in the future on acceptable terms, we may be unable to
support our growth strategy. We cannot readily predict the
ability of certain customers to pay for past services or the
timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. Using cash
for acquisitions limits our financial flexibility and makes us
more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or
equity financings. Our existing debt agreements contain
significant restrictions on our operational and financial
flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt, and
if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional
covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility.
When we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be
certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us
on terms acceptable to us or at all.

We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth.

Our
ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among
other factors, our ability to:

In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of
projects available to us due to their inability to obtain
capital or pay for services provided. Many of the factors
affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond
our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will
be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow
sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal
growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve
internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business.

Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a
result of goodwill impairments.

When we acquire a business,
we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the
excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities
assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible
assets of the business we acquire. Through December 31,
2001, pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we
amortized this goodwill over its estimated useful life of
40 years following the acquisition, which directly impacted
our earnings. The Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 142 which provides that goodwill and other
intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be
amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for
impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives
should continue to be amortized over their useful lives.
SFAS No. 142 also provides specific guidance for
testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for
impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires management to make
certain estimates and assumptions to allocate goodwill to
reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting
unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things,
an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows,
investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could
significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other
intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination
of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market



capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment
indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the
fourth quarter. Future impairments, if any, will be recognized
as operating expenses.

A number of shares of our common stock are eligible for
future sale, which may cause our stock price to decline.

The
market price of our common stock could decline as a result of
sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the public
market or the perception that such sales could occur. These
sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might
make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the
future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Shares
of common stock issued upon the conversion of our
$270.0 million issuance of 4.5% convertible subordinated
notes could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders,
which could cause the market price of our common stock to
decline.

First Reserve Fund IX, L.P., which owned approximately
15.2 million shares of our common stock as of
December 31, 2004 has the ability to cause us to register
the resale of its shares under its investor’s rights
agreement. First Reserve Fund IX, L.P. may also sell such shares
in the open market subject to the volume, manner of sale and
other conditions of Rule 144.

You are unlikely to be able to seek remedies against Arthur
Andersen LLP, our former independent auditor.

Our
consolidated financial statements for the fiscal years ended
prior to December 31, 2002 were audited by Arthur Andersen
LLP, our former independent auditor. In June 2002 Arthur
Andersen LLP was convicted of federal obstruction of justice
charges in connection with its destruction of documents. As a
result of its conviction, Arthur Andersen LLP has ceased
operations. You will not be able to recover against Arthur
Andersen LLP for its liability under Section 11 of the
Securities Act in the event of any untrue statements of a
material fact contained in the periods covered by its previously
issued audit reports. Even if you have a basis for asserting a
remedy against, or seeking to recover from Arthur Andersen LLP,
because they have ceased operations, it is highly unlikely that
you would be able to recover damages from Arthur Andersen LLP.

Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could
make an acquisition of our company more difficult.

The
following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and
bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder
rights plan and Delaware law, could discourage potential
proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of
us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in
the future for shares of our common stock:

ITEM 2.

Properties

Facilities

We lease our corporate headquarters in Houston, Texas and
maintain offices nationwide. This space is used for offices,
equipment yards, warehousing, storage and vehicle shops. We own
32 of the facilities we occupy, all of which are encumbered by
our credit facility, and we lease the remainder. We believe that
our existing facilities are sufficient for our current needs.



Equipment

We operate a fleet of owned and leased trucks and trailers,
support vehicles and specialty construction equipment, such as
backhoes, excavators, trenchers, generators, boring machines,
cranes, wire pullers and tensioners, all of which are encumbered
by our credit facility. As of December 31, 2004, the total
size of the rolling-stock fleet was approximately
19,600 units. Most of this fleet is serviced by our own
mechanics who work at various maintenance sites and facilities.
We believe that these vehicles generally are well maintained and
adequate for our present operations.

ITEM 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are from time to time a party to various lawsuits, claims and
other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of
business. These actions typically seek, among other things,
compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract,
property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other
losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to all
such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we accrue reserves when
it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount
of loss can be reasonably estimated. We do not believe that any
of these proceedings, separately or in the aggregate would be
expected to have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, cash flow or financial position.

ITEM 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of the year covered by this report, no
matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders,
through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise.

PART II

ITEM 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) under the symbol “PWR.” The following
table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common
stock per quarter, as reported by the NYSE, for the two most
recent fiscal years.

On March 10, 2005, there were 933 holders of record of
our common stock and 22 holders of record of our Limited
Vote Common Stock. There is no established trading market
for the Limited Vote Common Stock; however, the Limited
Vote Common Stock converts into common stock immediately
upon sale.

Stock Repurchase

On November 28, 2004, 8,749 shares of restricted stock
that had been issued pursuant to our 2001 Stock Incentive Plan
vested. Pursuant to the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, employees may
elect to satisfy their tax withholding obligations upon vesting
by having us make such tax payments and withhold a number of
vested



shares having a value on the date of vesting equal to their tax
withholding obligation. As a result of such employee elections,
we withheld shares as follows and accounted for such shares as
treasury stock.

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

(d) Maximum

(c) Total Number

Number of Shares

of Shares Purchased

That May Yet be

as Part of Publicly

Purchased Under

(a) Total Number of

(b) Average Price

Announced Plans or

the Plans or

Period

Shares Purchased

Paid per Share

Programs

Programs

November 1, 2004 — November 30, 2004

2,802

(i)

$

7.72

None

None

(i)

These shares were not purchased through a publicly announced
    plan or program.

Dividends

We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to
finance the growth, development and expansion of our business.
Accordingly, we do not currently intend to declare or pay any
cash dividends on our common stock in the immediate future. The
declaration, payment and amount of future cash dividends, if
any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after
taking into account various factors. These factors include our
financial condition, results of operations, cash flows from
operations, current and anticipated capital requirements and
expansion plans, the income tax laws then in effect and the
requirements of Delaware law. In addition, our revolving credit
facility includes limitations on the payment of cash dividends
without the consent of the lenders.

ITEM 6.

Selected Financial Data

The following historical selected financial data has been
derived from the audited financial statements of the company.
The historical financial statement data reflects the
acquisitions of businesses accounted for as purchase
transactions as of their respective acquisition dates. The
historical selected financial data should be read in conjunction
with the historical Consolidated Financial Statements and
related notes thereto included in Item 8 “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.”



December 31,






(In thousands)

Balance Sheet Data:

Working capital

$

353,729

$

335,590

$

317,356

$

476,703

$

478,978

Total assets

1,871,897

2,042,901

1,364,812

1,466,435

1,459,997

Long-term debt, net of current maturities

318,602

327,774

213,167

58,051

21,863

Convertible subordinated notes

172,500

172,500

172,500

442,500

442,500

Redeemable common stock

—

—

72,922

—

—

Total stockholders’ equity

1,068,956

1,206,751

611,671

663,132

663,247

The consolidated financial statements for the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 2001, were audited by Arthur Andersen
LLP, which has ceased operations.

ITEM 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our financial
condition and results of operations should be read in
conjunction with our historical consolidated financial
statements and related notes thereto in Item 8
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The
discussion below contains forward-looking statements that are
based upon our current expectations and are subject to
uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may
differ materially from these expectations due to inaccurate
assumptions and known or unknown risks and uncertainties,
including those identified in “Uncertainty of
Forward-Looking Statements and Information.”



Introduction

We are a leading national provider of specialty contracting
services, offering end-to-end network solutions to the electric
power, gas, telecommunications, cable television and specialty
services industries. We believe that we are the largest
contractor servicing the transmission and distribution sector of
the North American electric utility industry. We derive our
revenues from one reportable segment. Our customers include
electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television
companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental
entities. We had consolidated revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2004 of $1.6 billion, of which 64.7% was
attributable to electric power and gas customers, 16.8% to
telecommunications and cable television operators and 18.5% to
ancillary services, such as inside electrical wiring,
intelligent traffic networks, cable and control systems for
light rail lines, airports and highways, and specialty rock
trenching, directional boring and road milling for industrial
and commercial customers.

Our customers include many of the leading companies in the
industries we serve. We have developed strong strategic
alliances with numerous customers, and strive to develop and
maintain our status as a preferred vendor to our customers. We
enter into various types of contracts including competitive unit
price, cost-plus (or time and materials basis), and fixed price
(or lump sum basis), the final terms and prices of which we
frequently negotiate with the customer. Although the terms of
our contracts vary considerably, most are made on either a unit
price or fixed price basis in which we agree to do the work for
a price per unit of work performed (unit price) or for a fixed
amount for the entire project (fixed price). We complete a
substantial majority of our fixed price projects within one
year, while we frequently provide maintenance and repair work
under open-ended, unit price or cost-plus master service
agreements that are renewable annually. Some of our customers
require us to post performance and payment bonds upon execution
of the contract, depending upon the nature of the work to be
performed.

We generally recognize revenue on our unit price and cost-plus
contracts when units are completed or services are performed.
For our fixed price contracts, we typically record revenues as
work on the contract progresses on a percentage-of-completion
basis. Under this valuation method, revenue is recognized based
on the percentage of total costs incurred to date in proportion
to total estimated costs to complete the contract. Fixed price
contracts generally include retainage provisions under which a
percentage of the contract price is withheld until the project
is complete and has been accepted by our customer.

Seasonality; Fluctuations of Results

Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to
seasonal variations. These variations are influenced by weather,
customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, and holidays.
Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the
year because cold, snowy, or wet conditions cause delays, and
the annual project bidding season is just beginning. The second
quarter is typically better than the first, as some projects
begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact
second quarter productivity. The third quarter is typically the
best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway
and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. Revenues
during the fourth quarter of the year are typically lower than
the third quarter, but higher than the second quarter. Many
projects are completed in the fourth quarter and revenues are
often positively impacted by customers seeking to spend their
capital budget before the end of the year, however, the holiday
season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays. Our
quarterly revenue and results of operations during 2004 were
consistent with these seasonal patterns. We had not experienced
these normal seasonal patterns for the last few years due to the
decline in the telecommunications and cable television industry
and inconsistent spending patterns from the utility industry as
many of our customers have dealt with challenging economic and
capital market conditions.

Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result,
our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines in
new projects in various geographic regions in the United States.
The financial condition of our customers and their access to
capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during
any particular quarter, regional economic conditions, timing of
acquisitions and the timing and magnitude of acquisition
assimilation costs may also materially affect quarterly results.
Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter or
year may not be indicative of the results that can be expected
for any other quarter or



for any other year. You should read “Outlook” and
“Understanding Margins” for additional discussion of
trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition
and results of operations.

Understanding Margins

Our gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of
revenues. Cost of services consists primarily of salaries, wages
and benefits to employees, depreciation, fuel and other
equipment expenses, equipment rentals, subcontracted services,
insurance, facilities expenses, materials and parts and
supplies. Various factors — some controllable, some
not — impact our gross margins on a quarterly or
annual basis.

Seasonal & Geographical.

As discussed above,
seasonal patterns can have a significant impact on gross
margins. Generally, business is slower in the winter months
versus the warmer parts of the year. This can be offset somewhat
by increased demand for electrical service and repair work from
severe weather. In addition, the mix of business conducted in
different parts of the country will affect margins; some parts
of the country command higher gross margins than others.

Weather.

Adverse or favorable weather conditions can
impact gross margins in a given period. For example, in the
first quarter of 2004, parts of the country experienced record
snow or rain fall that negatively impacted our revenue and gross
margin. In many cases projects were delayed or had to be
temporarily placed on hold. Conversely, in periods where weather
remains dry and temperatures are accommodating, more work can be
done, sometimes with less cost, which would have a favorable
impact on gross margin. In some cases, as in the second half of
2004, strong storms or hurricanes can provide us with high
margin emergency service restoration work, which has a positive
impact on margins.

Revenue Mix.

The mix of revenue derived from the
industries we serve will impact gross margins. Changes in our
customers’ spending patterns in each of the industries we
serve can cause an imbalance in supply and demand, and
therefore, affect margins and mix of revenue by industry served.

Service and Maintenance versus Installation.

In general,
installation work has a higher gross margin than maintenance
work. This is because installation work is often obtained on a
fixed price basis which has higher risk than other types of
pricing arrangements. We typically derive approximately 40%-50%
of our revenue from maintenance work, which is performed under
pre-established or negotiated prices or cost plus pricing
arrangements. Thus, a higher portion of installation work in a
given quarter may lead to a higher gross margin.

Subcontract Work.

Work that has to be subcontracted out
generally has lower gross margins. An increase in subcontract
work in a given period may contribute to a decrease in gross
margin. We typically derive approximately 15% of our revenue
from work that is subcontracted out to other contractors.

Materials versus Labor.

Margins may be lower on projects
on which we furnish materials as material prices are generally
more predictable than labor costs. Consequently, we generally
are not able to mark up materials as much as labor costs. In a
given period, a higher percentage of work that has a higher
materials component may decrease overall gross margin.

Depreciation.

We include depreciation in cost of
services. This is common practice in our industry, but can make
comparability to other companies difficult. This must be taken
into consideration when comparing us to other companies.

Insurance.

Operating margins could be impacted by
fluctuations in insurance accruals related to our deductibles in
the period in which such adjustments are made. As of
December 31, 2004, we have a deductible of
$1,000,000 per occurrence related to employer’s and
general liability and a deductible of $2,000,000 per
occurrence for automobile liability and workers’
compensation insurance. We also have a non-union employee
related health care benefit plan that is subject to a deductible
of $250,000 per claimant per year.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses consist primarily of
compensation and related benefits to management, administrative
salaries and benefits, marketing, office rent and utilities,
communications, professional fees, bad debt expense, letter of
credit fees and gains



and losses on the sale of property and equipment. Selling,
general and administrative expenses can be impacted by our
customers’ inability to pay for services performed.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth selected statements of operations
data and such data as a percentage of revenues for the years
indicated (dollars in thousands):

2004 compared to 2003

Revenues.

Revenues were relatively constant at
approximately $1.6 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003. Revenues derived from the
telecommunications and cable television network services
industry decreased by approximately $86.5 million. This
revenue decrease was primarily due to reduced capital spending
by our cable customers as many of them continue to face
significant financial pressures, which have negatively impacted
the award of work to specialty contractors. Revenues derived
from ancillary services decreased by approximately
$3.0 million. These decreases were partially offset by
increased revenues derived from the electric power and gas
network services industry of approximately $73.2 million.
Revenues were positively impacted by a larger volume of storm
restoration services provided during the third quarter of 2004
to our electric power and gas customers in the Southeastern
United States in the wake of four hurricanes. We have also
become more selective in the jobs we pursue, and pricing
pressures have contributed to lower revenues as the bidding
environment has remained competitive.



Gross Profit.

Gross profit decreased $18.5 million,
or 9.3%, to $181.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. Gross margin decreased from 12.2% for
the year ended December 31, 2003 to 11.2% for the year
ended December 31, 2004. This decrease in gross margin
resulted primarily from an incremental increase in the expense
associated with our self-insured casualty insurance program of
$13.0 million primarily due to higher than anticipated
claims development during the third quarter of 2004. Additional
negative margin impacts include pricing pressures on work
performed for utility and cable customers, as well as cost
overruns and weather delays on certain projects during the first
quarter of 2004. These decreases were partially offset by a
larger volume of higher margin storm restoration services
performed during the third quarter of 2004.

Selling, general and administrative expenses.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses decreased $6.7 million,
or 3.7%, to $171.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31,
2003, we recorded $19.9 million in bad debt expense related
primarily to notes receivable from one customer, compared to
only $0.4 million during the year ended December 31,
2004. Excluding bad debt expense, selling, general and
administrative expenses for the year ended December 31,
2004 increased approximately $12.8 million, primarily due
to $9.3 million in increased professional fees which
consisted of $6.3 million in fees associated with meeting
the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and
additional professional fees associated with a margin
enhancement program, costs associated with the start up of our
government solutions subsidiary, legal fees and the
implementation of new safety initiatives. In addition, our
non-cash compensation expense associated with the issuance of
restricted stock increased $1.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended
December 31, 2003.

Interest expense.

Interest expense decreased
$6.8 million, or 21.2%, to $25.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004 due to the refinancing of the
majority of our outstanding debt during the fourth quarter of
2003 at lower interest rates and a decrease in our long-term
debt balance as of December 31, 2004 compared to
December 31, 2003.

Other income (expense), net.

Other income was
$2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004,
compared to other expense of $1.4 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003. Included in 2003 was a
$2.9 million loss on the disposal of an investment in a
fiber network. Excluding this loss, the increase in other income
(expense), net was $1.1 million, primarily related to an
increase in interest income resulting from larger average cash
balances during 2004.

Benefit for income taxes.

The benefit for income taxes
was $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004,
with an effective tax rate of 27.3%, compared to a benefit of
$18.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003,
with an effective tax rate of 34.1%. The effective tax rates for
both 2004 and 2003 were lower than the statutory rates due to
the effect of certain expenses that we incur that are not
deductible for tax purposes. The non-deductibility of these
expenses has the effect of lowering the amount of tax benefit
that we record associated with the losses we incurred.

2003 compared to 2002

Revenues.

Revenues decreased $107.9 million, or
6.2%, to $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31,
2003, with revenues derived from the telecommunications and
cable television network services industry decreasing by
approximately $130.4 million. This decrease was partially
offset by increases in revenues derived from the electric power
and gas network services industry of approximately
$7.5 million and revenues from ancillary services
increasing approximately $15.1 million. The overall
decrease was due to the continued reduction in capital spending
by our customers, which negatively impacted the award of work to
specialty contractors. Pricing pressures have also contributed
to lower revenues as the competitive bid environment for new
projects has become increasingly competitive.

Gross profit.

Gross profit decreased $36.9 million,
or 15.6%, to $199.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2003. As a percentage of revenues, gross
margin decreased from 13.5% for the year ended December 31,
2002 to 12.2% for the year ended December 31, 2003. The
decrease in gross margin was attributable to the negative impact
of the factors affecting revenue noted above, shutdowns, delays
and



substantial operating inefficiencies resulting from severe
snowfall in the Northeast and Mountain regions of the United
States during the first quarter of 2003 and substantially higher
than normal rainfall amounts in the South and Southeast during
the first and second quarters of 2003, partially offset by
increased margins on revenues earned from telecommunications
customers.

Selling, general and administrative expenses.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses decreased
$51.2 million, or 22.3%, to $178.2 million for the
year ended December 31, 2003. During the year ended
December 31, 2003, we recorded $19.9 million in bad
debt expense. During the year ended December 31, 2002, we
recorded $35.7 million in bad debt expense,
$10.5 million in proxy defense costs and $4.5 million
in expensed loan and equity costs associated with amendments of
our then existing debt agreements and issuances of stock. Absent
these items, selling, general and administrative expenses for
the year ended December 31, 2003 decreased
$20.4 million primarily due to reductions in salary and
benefit costs, facility related costs and travel and
entertainment costs as a result of reductions in personnel and
the closure of certain offices and to lower net losses on the
sale of property and equipment during 2003 compared to during
2002.

Goodwill impairment.

During the year ended
December 31, 2003, we recognized a non-cash
SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairment charge of
$6.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2002,
we recognized an interim non-cash SFAS No. 142
goodwill impairment charge of $166.6 million.

Interest expense.

Interest expense decreased
$4.0 million, or 11.3%, to $31.8 million for the year
ended December 31, 2003. This decrease was due to lower
average levels of debt in 2003 and an expense of approximately
$1.0 million for unamortized debt issuance costs relating
to an amendment of the credit facility charged to interest
expense during the year ended December 31, 2002. These
decreases were partially offset by increased interest rates.

Loss on early extinguishment of debt.

During the year
ended December 31, 2003, we recognized $35.1 million
on loss on early extinguishment of debt comprised of make-whole
prepayment premiums in the amount of $31.3 million, the
write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs of
$3.3 million associated with the retirement of certain
other debt and the termination of a previous credit facility
together with other related costs of $0.5 million.

Benefit for income taxes.

The benefit for income taxes
was $18.1 million for the year ended December 31,
2003, with an effective tax rate of 34.1%, compared to a benefit
of $19.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002,
with an effective tax rate of 10.2%. The 2002 annual effective
tax rate reflects a benefit for income taxes at a rate that is
lower than the 2003 annual effective tax rate primarily due to
the significant 2002 interim goodwill impairment charge, the
majority of which was not deductible for tax purposes, thereby
reducing the amount of tax benefit recorded for the year ended
December 31, 2002.

Dividends on preferred stock, net of forfeitures.

For the
year ended December 31, 2003, we recorded approximately
$2.1 million in forfeitures of dividends on the
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. In the first quarter
of 2003, all remaining outstanding shares of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock were converted into shares of common
stock. There are currently no outstanding shares of
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the series was
eliminated during the second quarter of 2003. Any dividends that
had accrued on the respective shares of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock were reversed on the date of
conversion.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Requirements

We anticipate that our cash on hand, which totaled
$265.6 million as of December 31, 2004, our credit
facility and our future cash flow from operations will provide
sufficient cash to enable us to meet our future operating needs,
debt service requirements and planned capital expenditures and
to ensure our future ability to grow. Momentum in deployment of
fiber to the premises or initiatives to rebuild the United
States electric power grid might require a significant amount of
additional working capital. However, we feel that we have
adequate cash and availability under our credit facility to meet
such needs.



Sources and Uses of Cash

As of December 31, 2004, we had cash and cash equivalents
of $265.6 million, working capital of $479.0 million
and long-term debt of $464.4 million, net of current
maturities. Our long-term debt balance at that date included
borrowings of $442.5 million of convertible subordinated
notes and $21.9 million of other debt. We also had
$132.8 million of letters of credit outstanding under our
credit facility.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, operating
activities provided net cash flow of $144.1 million. Cash
flow from operations is primarily influenced by demand for our
services, operating margins and the type of services we provide.
The receipt of a federal tax refund of $30.2 million and
$23.5 million received from the sale of our receivable due
from Adelphia positively impacted cash flow from operating
activities during the year ended December 31, 2004. We used
net cash in investing activities of $25.1 million,
including $39.0 million used for capital expenditures,
partially offset by an $8.9 million reduction in restricted
cash no longer required by our casualty insurance program,
coupled with $4.9 million of proceeds from the sale of
equipment. We used net cash in financing activities of
$33.0 million, resulting primarily from a
$35.2 million repayment under the term loan portion of the
credit facility in order to be able to issue additional letters
of credit.

Debt Instruments

Credit Facility

As of December 31, 2004, we had a $185.0 million
credit facility with various lenders. The credit facility
consisted of a $150.0 million letter of credit facility
maturing on June 19, 2008, which also provides for term
loans, and a $35.0 million revolving credit facility
maturing on December 19, 2007, which provides for revolving
loans and letters of credit. On January 4, 2005, the
maximum availability under the letter of credit facility was
automatically reduced by $1.5 million, resulting in current
maximum availability of $183.5 million, and will be
automatically reduced by $1.5 million on December 31
of each year thereafter.

As of December 31, 2004, the letter of credit facility was
linked to a $150.0 million deposit made by the lenders,
which is held in an account with Bank of America, N.A. This
deposit may be used either to support letters of credit or, to
the extent that amounts available under the facility are not
used to support letters of credit, for term loans. As of
December 31, 2004, we were required to maintain total
borrowings outstanding under the letter of credit facility equal
to the $150.0 million available through a combination of
letters of credit or term loans. We had approximately
$128.9 million of letters of credit issued under the letter
of credit facility and $20.8 million of the letter of
credit facility outstanding as a term loan. The remaining
$0.3 million was available for issuing new letters of
credit. In the event that we desire to issue additional letters
of credit under the letter of credit facility, we are required
to make cash repayments of debt outstanding under the term loan
portion of the letter of credit facility in an amount that
approximates the additional letters of credit to be issued. The
weighted average interest rate for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2004 associated with amounts
outstanding under the term loan was 4.15% and 4.44%.

Under the letter of credit facility, we are subject to a fee
equal to 3.00% to 3.25% of the letters of credit outstanding,
depending upon the occurrence of certain events, plus an
additional 0.15% of the amount outstanding to the extent the
funds in the deposit account do not earn interest equal to the
London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR). Term loans under the
letter of credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to
either (a) the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the credit
facility) plus 3.00% to 3.25% or (b) the Base Rate (as
described below) plus 3.00% to 3.25% depending upon the
occurrence of certain events. The Base Rate equals the higher of
(i) the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the credit
facility) plus 1/2 of 1% and (ii) the bank’s prime
rate.

We had approximately $3.9 million of letters of credit
issued under the revolving credit facility, and borrowing
availability under the revolving credit facility was
$31.1 million as of December 31, 2004. Amounts
borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a
rate equal to either (a) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1.75% to
3.00%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to
EBITDA, or (b) the Base Rate plus 0.25% to 1.50%, as
determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to EBITDA.
Letters of credit issued under



the revolving credit facility are subject to a letter of credit
fee of 1.75% to 3.00%, based on the ratio of our total funded
debt to EBITDA. If we choose to cash collateralize letters of
credit issued under the revolving credit facility, those letters
of credit will be subject to a letter of credit fee of 0.50%. We
are also subject to a commitment fee of 0.375% to 0.625%, based
on the ratio of our total funded debt to EBITDA, on any unused
availability under the revolving credit facility.

The credit facility contains certain covenants, including a
maximum funded debt to EBITDA ratio, a maximum senior debt to
EBITDA ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, a minimum asset
coverage ratio and a minimum consolidated net worth covenant. As
of December 31, 2004, we were in compliance with all of our
covenants. However, other conditions such as, but not limited
to, unforeseen project delays or cancellations, adverse weather
conditions or poor contract performance, could adversely affect
our ability to comply with our covenants in the future. The
credit facility also limits acquisitions, capital expenditures
and asset sales and, subject to some exceptions, prohibits liens
on material assets, stock repurchase programs and the payment of
dividends (other than dividend payments or other distributions
payable solely in capital stock). Currently, however, the credit
facility allows us to pay dividends and engage in stock
repurchase programs in the amount of $25.0 million in 2005
and in any fiscal year thereafter in an aggregate amount up to
twenty-five percent of our consolidated net income (plus the
amount of non-cash charges that reduced such consolidated net
income) for the prior fiscal year. The credit facility carries
cross-default provisions with all of our other debt instruments
exceeding $2.0 million in borrowings.

The credit facility is secured by a pledge of all of the capital
stock of our U.S. subsidiaries, 65% of the capital stock of
our foreign subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets.
Borrowings under the credit facility are to be used for working
capital, capital expenditures and for other general corporate
purposes. Our U.S. subsidiaries guarantee the repayment of
all amounts due under the credit facility. Our obligations under
the credit facility constitute designated senior indebtedness
under our 4.0% and 4.5% convertible subordinated notes.

4.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes

As of December 31, 2004, we had $172.5 million of
4.0% convertible subordinated notes outstanding. These
4.0% convertible subordinated notes are convertible into
shares of our common stock at a price of $54.53 per share,
subject to adjustment as a result of certain events. These
4.0% convertible subordinated notes require semi-annual
interest payments on July 1 and December 31 until the
notes mature on July 1, 2007. Since July 3, 2003, we
have had the option to redeem some or all of the
4.0% convertible subordinated notes at specified redemption
prices, together with accrued and unpaid interest; however,
redemption is prohibited by our credit facility. If certain
fundamental changes occur, as described in the indenture under
which we issued the 4.0% convertible subordinated notes,
holders of the 4.0% convertible subordinated notes may
require us to purchase all or part of their notes at a purchase
price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and
unpaid interest.

4.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes

As of December 31, 2004, we had $270.0 million of
4.5% convertible subordinated notes outstanding. These
4.5% convertible subordinated notes are convertible into
shares of our common stock at a price of $11.14 per share,
subject to adjustment as a result of certain events. The
4.5% convertible subordinated notes require semi-annual
interest payments on April 1 and October 1, until the
notes mature on October 1, 2023.

The 4.5% convertible subordinated notes are convertible by
the holder if (i) during any fiscal quarter commencing
after December 31, 2003 the last reported sale price of our
common stock is greater than or equal to 120% of the conversion
price for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30
consecutive trading days ending on the first trading day of such
fiscal quarter, (ii) during the five business day period
after any five consecutive trading day period in which the
trading price per note for each day of that period was less than
98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common
stock and the conversion rate, (iii) upon us calling the
notes for redemption or (iv) upon the occurrence of
specified corporate transactions. If the notes become
convertible under one of these circumstances, we have the option
to deliver cash, shares of our common stock



or a combination thereof, with a value equal to the par value of
the notes divided by the conversion price multiplied by the
average trading price of our common stock. The maximum number of
shares of common stock that could be issued under these
circumstances is equal to the par value of the notes divided by
the conversion price. During the year ended December 31,
2004, none of the circumstances permitting conversion had
occurred.

Beginning October 8, 2008, we can redeem for cash some or
all of the 4.5% convertible subordinated notes at par value
plus accrued and unpaid interest; however, early redemption is
prohibited by our credit facility. The holders of the
4.5% convertible subordinated notes may require us to
repurchase all or some of the notes at par value plus accrued
and unpaid interest on October 1, 2008, 2013 or 2018, or
upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined by the
indenture under which we issued the notes. We must pay any
required repurchase on October 1, 2008 in cash. For all
other required repurchases, we have the option to deliver cash,
shares of our common stock or a combination thereof to satisfy
our repurchase obligation. We presently do not anticipate using
stock to satisfy any future obligations. If we were to satisfy
the obligation with shares of our common stock, we will deliver
a number of shares equal to the par value of the notes divided
by 98.5% of the average trading price of our common stock, as
defined by the indenture. The number of shares of common stock
issuable by us under this circumstance is not limited. Our right
to satisfy a required repurchase obligation with shares of
common stock can be surrendered by us. The 4.5% convertible
subordinated notes carry cross-default provisions with our
credit facility and any other debt instrument that exceeds
$10.0 million in borrowings.

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions

As is common in our industry, we have entered into certain
off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of
business that result in risks not directly reflected in our
balance sheets. Our significant off-balance sheet transactions
include liabilities associated with non-cancelable operating
leases, letter of credit obligations and surety guarantees. We
have not engaged in any off-balance sheet financing arrangements
through special purpose entities.

Leases

We enter into non-cancelable operating leases for many of our
facility, vehicle and equipment needs. These leases allow us to
conserve cash by paying a monthly lease rental fee for use of
facilities, vehicles and equipment rather than purchasing them.
We may decide to cancel or terminate a lease before the end of
its term, in which case we are typically liable to the lessor
for the remaining lease payments under the term of the lease.

We have guaranteed the residual value of the underlying assets
under certain of our equipment operating leases at the date of
termination of such leases. We have agreed to pay any difference
between this residual value and the fair market value of each
underlying asset as of the lease termination date. As of
December 31, 2004, the maximum guaranteed residual value
would have been approximately $100.2 million. We believe
that no significant payments will be made as a result of the
difference between the fair market value of the leased equipment
and the guaranteed residual value. However, there can be no
assurance that future significant payments will not be required.

Letters of Credit

Certain of our vendors require letters of credit to ensure
reimbursement for amounts they are disbursing on our behalf,
such as to beneficiaries under our self-funded insurance
programs. In addition, from time to time some customers require
us to post letters of credit to ensure payment to our
subcontractors and vendors under those contracts and to
guarantee performance under our contracts. Such letters of
credit are generally issued by a bank or similar financial
institution. The letter of credit commits the issuer to pay
specified amounts to the holder of the letter of credit if the
holder demonstrates that we have failed to perform specified
actions. If this were to occur, we would be required to
reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit. Depending on the
circumstances of such a reimbursement, we may also have to
record a charge to earnings for the



reimbursement. We do not believe that it is likely that any
claims will be made under a letter of credit in the foreseeable
future.

As of December 31, 2004, we had $132.8 million in
letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility
primarily to secure obligations under our casualty insurance
program. These are irrevocable stand-by letters of credit with
maturities expiring at various times throughout 2005 and 2006.
Upon maturity, it is expected that the majority of these letters
of credit will be renewed for subsequent one-year periods. We
will be required to issue additional letters of credit during
2005, primarily related to our casualty insurance program.

Performance Bonds

Many customers, particularly in connection with new
construction, require us to post performance and payment bonds
issued by a financial institution known as a surety. These bonds
provide a guarantee to the customer that we will perform under
the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and
vendors. If we fail to perform under a contract or to pay
subcontractors and vendors, the customer may demand that the
surety make payments or provide services under the bond. We must
reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. We
have posted a letter of credit in the amount of
$10.0 million in favor of the surety and, pursuant to the
consent of our lenders under our credit facility, we have
granted security interests in certain of our assets to fully
collateralize our obligations to the surety. We may be required
to post additional letters of credit or other collateral in
favor of the surety in the future. Posting letters of credit in
favor of the surety will also reduce the availability under our
credit facility. To date, we have not had any significant
reimbursements to our surety for bond-related costs. We
currently believe that we will not have to fund any claims under
our surety arrangements in the foreseeable future. As of
December 31, 2004, an aggregate of approximately
$481.5 million in original face amount of bonds issued by
the surety were outstanding. Our estimated cost to complete
these bonded projects was approximately $80.4 million as of
December 31, 2004.

Contractual Obligations

As of December 31, 2004, our future contractual obligations
are as follows (in thousands):

Total






Thereafter

Long-term debt — principal

$

468,270

$

4,515

$


$

172,592

$

290,800

$

—

$

—

Long-term debt — interest

62,813

19,050

19,050

15,600

9,113

—

—

Capital lease obligations, including interest

2,360

1,721


—

—

—

—

Operating lease obligations

69,490

19,569

12,735

9,079

8,128

7,278

12,701

Total

$

602,933

$

44,855

$

32,787

$

197,271

$

308,041

$

7,278

$

12,701

Excluded from the above table is interest associated with
borrowings under the credit facility because both the amount
borrowed and applicable interest rate are variable. The
principal amount borrowed under the credit facility included in
the above table is $20.8 million due in 2008, which bears
interest at a rate of 4.44% as of December 31, 2004. In
addition, our multi-employer pension plan contributions are
determined annually based on our union employee payrolls, which
cannot be determined for future periods in advance.

Concentration of Credit Risk

We grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without
collateral, to our customers, which include electric power and
gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system
operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and
builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial
properties located primarily in the United States. Consequently,
we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in
business and economic factors throughout the United States.
However, we generally have certain lien rights with respect to
services provided. Under certain circumstances such as
foreclosures or negotiated settlements, we may take title to the
underlying assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables.
As previously discussed herein, our customers have experienced
significant financial difficulties. These



economic conditions expose us to increased risk related to
collectibility of receivables for services we have performed. No
customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable or
revenues as of or for the years ended December 31, 2003 or
2004.

Litigation

Quanta is from time to time party to various lawsuits, claims
and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of
business. These actions typically seek, among other things,
compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract,
property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other
losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to all
such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, Quanta accrues reserves
when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the
amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Quanta does not
believe that any of these proceedings, separately or in the
aggregate, would be expected to have a material adverse effect
on Quanta’s results of operations, cash flow or financial
position.

Related Party Transactions

In the normal course of business, we enter into transactions
from time to time with related parties. These transactions
typically take the form of facility leases with prior owners of
certain acquired companies.

Inflation

Due to relatively low levels of inflation experienced during the
years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, inflation did
not have a significant effect on our results.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In September 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force
(EITF) discussed EITF Issue 04-08, “Accounting
Issues Related to Certain Features of Contingently Convertible
Debt and the Effect on Diluted Earnings per Share.” The
EITF reached a consensus that would require all issued
securities with contingent conversion features containing market
price contingencies based on a company’s stock price to be
accounted for using the “if converted” method in
calculating earnings per share. This EITF would require that
earnings per share be retroactively restated for the effect of
conversion of any contingently convertible debt instruments
starting with the issuance date of the contingently convertible
debt instrument. This consensus is effective for us on
December 31, 2004. Our 4.5% convertible subordinated
notes contain contingent conversion features; however the
adoption of EITF 04-08 does not impact our earnings per
share as reported as the effect of assuming conversion of the
4.5% convertible subordinated notes would be antidilutive
for all periods since the date of issuance. However, the effect
of this EITF increases the likelihood that these notes could
have a dilutive effect in the future.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based
Payment.” (SFAS No. 123R).
SFAS No. 123R requires companies to recognize an
expense for the value of employee stock-based compensation. Cost
of our stock option awards under our 2001 Stock Incentive Plan
and stock issued pursuant to our Employee Stock Purchase Plan
(ESPP) will be measured at fair value on the awards grant
date, based on the estimated number of awards that are expected
to vest. Companies are to select from three transition methods.
We are currently evaluating the three transition methods for
adopting SFAS No. 123R. SFAS No. 123R is
effective for interim and annual periods beginning after
June 15, 2005. Our existing pro forma disclosure included
in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
presents the approximate impact of SFAS No. 123R had
it been adopted in the periods presented. We continue to assess
the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123R, including the
need for changes in our compensation strategies.
Statement No. 123R also requires the benefits of tax
deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be
reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating
cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement
will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing
cash flows in periods after adoption.



In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 153, “Exchanges of
Nonmonetary Assets — an amendment of APB Opinion
No. 29,” which modifies the existing guidance on
accounting for nonmonetary transactions in Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 29, “Accounting for Nonmonetary
Transactions,” to eliminate an exception under which
certain exchanges of similar productive nonmonetary assets were
not accounted for at fair value. SFAS No. 153 instead
provides a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets
that do not have commercial substance. This statement must be
applied to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal
periods beginning after June 15, 2005. We do not anticipate
that the adoption of SFAS No. 153 will have a material
impact on our results of operations or financial position.

Critical Accounting Policies

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and
results of operations are based on our consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
The preparation of these consolidated financial statements
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of
contingent assets and liabilities known to exist at the date of
the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We
evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, based on historical
experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to
be reasonable under the circumstances. There can be no assurance
that actual results will not differ from those estimates.
Management has reviewed its development and selection of
critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our
board of directors. We believe the following accounting policies
affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the
preparation of our consolidated financial statements:

Revenue Recognition.

We recognize revenue when services
are performed except when work is being performed under fixed
price contracts. We record revenues from fixed price contracts
on a percentage-of-completion basis, using the cost-to-cost
method based on the percentage of total costs incurred to date
in proportion to total estimated costs to complete the contract.
Contract costs typically include all direct material, labor and
subcontract costs and those indirect costs related to contract
performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs
and depreciation costs. Changes in job performance, job
conditions, estimated profitability and final contract
settlements may result in revisions to costs and income and
their effects are recognized in the period in which the
revisions are determined.

Self-Insurance.

We are insured for employer’s
liability and general liability claims, subject to a deductible
of $1,000,000 per occurrence, and for auto liability and
workers’ compensation claims subject to a deductible of
$2,000,000 per occurrence. We also have a non-union
employee related health care benefit plan that is subject to a
deductible of $250,000 per claimant per year. Losses up to
the deductible amounts are accrued based upon our estimates of
the ultimate undiscounted liability for claims incurred, an
estimate of claims incurred but not reported and for future
expected legal costs associated with the claims. However,
insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due
to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the
determination of our liability in proportion to other parties,
the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of
our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and
historical trends and management believes such accruals to be
adequate.

Our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from
August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 is experiencing
financial distress but is currently paying valid claims. In the
event that this insurer’s financial situation further
deteriorates, we may be required to pay certain obligations that
otherwise would have been paid by this insurer. We estimate that
the total future claim amount that this insurer is currently
obligated to pay on our behalf for the above-mentioned policy
periods is approximately $4.0 million, however, our
estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts is
between $2.0 million and $9.0 million. The actual
amounts ultimately paid by us related to these claims, if any,
may vary materially from the above range and could be impacted
by further claims development and the extent to which the
insurer could not honor its obligations. In any event, we do not
expect any failure by this insurer to honor its obligations to
us to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition;
however, the impact could be material to our results of



operations or cash flow in a given period. We continue to
monitor the financial situation of this insurer and analyze any
alternative actions that could be pursued.

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets.

SFAS No. 142
provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have
indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be
tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets
that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized
over their useful lives. SFAS No. 142 also provides
specific guidance for testing goodwill and other unamortized
intangible assets for impairment. SFAS No. 142 does not
allow increases in the carrying value of reporting units that
may result from our impairment test, therefore we may record
goodwill impairments in the future, even when the aggregate fair
value of our reporting units and the company as a whole may
increase. Goodwill of a reporting unit shall be tested for
impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or
circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the
fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.
Examples of such events or circumstances may include a
significant change in business climate or a loss of key
personnel, among others. SFAS No. 142 requires that
management make certain estimates and assumptions in order to
allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair
value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including,
among other things, an assessment of market conditions,
projected cash flows, cost of capital and growth rates, which
could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and
other intangible assets. Estimating future cash flows requires
significant judgment and our projections may vary from cash
flows eventually realized.

We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may
not be realizable. If an evaluation is required, the estimated
future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset are
compared to the asset’s carrying amount to determine if an
impairment of such asset is necessary. Estimating future cash
flows requires significant judgment and our projections may vary
from cash flows eventually realized. The effect of any
impairment would be to expense the difference between the fair
value of such asset and its carrying value. In addition, we
estimate the useful lives of our long-lived assets and other
intangibles. We periodically review factors to determine whether
these lives are appropriate. Net gains or losses from the sale
of property and equipment are reflected in Selling, General and
Administrative Expenses.

Current and Non-Current Accounts and Notes Receivable
and Provision for Doubtful Accounts.

We provide an allowance
for doubtful accounts when collection of an account or note
receivable is considered doubtful. Inherent in the assessment of
the allowance for doubtful accounts are certain judgments and
estimates including, among others, our customer’s access to
capital, our customer’s willingness or ability to pay,
general economic conditions and the ongoing relationship with
the customer. Certain of our customers, several of them large
public telecommunications carriers and utility customers, have
been experiencing financial difficulties. Should any major
customers file for bankruptcy or continue to experience
difficulties, or should anticipated recoveries relating to the
receivables in existing bankruptcies and other workout
situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash
flows and losses in excess of current reserves. In addition,
material changes in our customers’ revenues or cash flows
could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them.

Stock Based Compensation.

Through December 31, 2004,
we accounted for our stock option awards under Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (APB Opinion No. 25),
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” Under this
accounting method, no compensation expense is recognized in the
consolidated statements of operations if no intrinsic value of
the option exists at the date of grant. In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 123R as previously discussed,
requiring companies to account for stock-based compensation
awards based on the fair value of the awards at the date they
are granted. The resulting compensation costs would be shown as
an expense in the consolidated statements of operations.
SFAS No. 123R is effective beginning in the third
quarter of 2005. Until effective, disclosure is required as to
what net income and earnings per share would have been had the
new accounting method been followed for our stock option awards
under our 2001 Stock Incentive Plan and stock issued pursuant to
our ESPP. The expense recognition for restricted stock awards
are the same under APB Opinion No. 25 and
SFAS No. 123R, with expense being recognized in the
financial statements. See Note 2 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for such disclosure.



Income Taxes.

We follow the liability method of
accounting for income taxes in accordance with
SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”
Under this method, deferred assets and liabilities are recorded
for future tax consequences of temporary differences between the
financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and
are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be
in effect when the underlying assets or liabilities are
recovered or settled.

We regularly evaluate valuation allowances established for
deferred tax assets for which future realization is uncertain
and we maintain an allowance for tax contingencies, which we
believe is adequate. The estimation of required valuation
allowances includes estimates of future taxable income. The
ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon
the generation of future taxable income during the periods in
which those temporary differences become deductible. We consider
projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in
making this assessment. If actual future taxable income differs
from our estimates, we may not realize deferred tax assets to
the extent we have estimated.

Outlook

The following statements are based on current expectations.
These statements are forward looking, and actual results may
differ materially.

Like many companies that provide installation and maintenance
services to the electric power, gas, telecommunications and
cable television industries, we have faced a number of
challenges. Our markets experienced substantial change during
2002 and 2003 as evidenced by an increased number of
bankruptcies in the telecommunications market, continued
devaluation of many of our customers’ debt and equity
securities and pricing pressures resulting from challenges faced
by major industry participants. These factors have contributed
to the delay of projects and reduction of capital spending that
have impacted our operations and ability to grow at historical
levels.

We believe the historic downturn of the telecommunications
industry has reached bottom and that the industry has
stabilized. Further, there are several telecommunications
initiatives currently in discussion and underway by several
wireline carriers and government organizations that could
provide us with pockets of opportunity in the future,
particularly from fiber to the premises (FTTP) and fiber to the
node (FTTN) initiatives. Such initiatives have been announced by
Verizon and SBC, and municipalities have also become active in
FTTP initiatives.

Our wireless customers continued to be impacted by mergers
within their industry in the second half of 2004. As these
mergers are completed, spending on wireless networks should
gradually resume. In addition, several wireless companies have
announced plans to increase their cell site deployment plans
over the next year.

Utilities across the country are regaining their financial
health and are making plans to increase spending on their
transmission and distribution systems. As a result, we
anticipate more extensive pole change outs, line upgrades and
maintenance projects on many systems over the next several
quarters. Further, we anticipate that a comprehensive energy
bill could be passed that could clarify regulatory uncertainties
and provide proper incentives for the power industry to invest
in and improve maintenance on their transmission and
distribution systems.

Spending in the cable television industry remains flat. However,
with several telecom companies increasing the pace of their FTTP
and FTTN projects that will enable them to offer TV services via
fiber to their customers, such initiatives could serve as a
catalyst for the cable industry to begin a new network upgrade
cycle to expand its service offerings in an effort to retain and
attract customers.

We have seen spending levels improve in most of the industries
we serve with each quarter of 2004 . With the stabilization of
several of our markets, we have begun to see gross margins
generally stabilize as well. While operating conditions are
still abnormal and many challenges remain, we are also beginning
to see some opportunity for margins to improve, but they are not
expected to return to historical levels in the near term. To the
extent that our primary markets remain stable or begin to
improve, margins could gradually continue to improve.



Our backlog at December 31, 2003 and 2004 was approximately
$1.01 billion and $1.07 billion. Backlog represents
the amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be
performed over the next twelve months on uncompleted contracts,
including new contractual agreements on which work has not
begun. In many instances, our customers are not contractually
committed to specific volumes of services under our long-term
maintenance contracts and many of our contracts may be
terminated with notice. There can be no assurance as to our
customer’s requirements or that our estimates are accurate.

We continue to focus on the elements of the business we can
control, including cost control, the margins we accept on
projects, collecting receivables, ensuring quality service and
right sizing initiatives to match the markets we serve. These
initiatives include aligning our work force with our current
revenue base, evaluating opportunities to reduce the number of
field offices and evaluating our non-core assets for potential
sale. Such initiatives could result in future charges related
to, among others, severance, facilities shutdown and
consolidation, property disposal and other exit costs.

Capital expenditures in 2005 are expected to be approximately
$40.0 million to $50.0 million. A majority of the
expenditures will be for operating equipment. We expect
expenditures for 2005 to be funded substantially through
internal cash flows and, to the extent necessary, from cash on
hand.

We believe that we are adequately positioned to capitalize upon
opportunities in the industries we serve because of our proven
full-service operating units with broad geographic reach,
financial capability and technical expertise.

Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes statements
reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or
beliefs about future events that are intended as
“forward-looking statements” under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these
statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts. They use words such as
“anticipate,” “estimate,”
“project,” “forecast,” “may,”
“will,” “should,” “could,”
“expect,” “believe” and other words of
similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not
limited to, statements relating to the following:

Any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be
wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and by
known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including the
following:



Many of these factors will be important in determining our
actual future results. Consequently, no forward-looking
statement can be guaranteed. Our actual future results may vary
materially from those expressed or implied in any
forward-looking statements.

All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral,
are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any
other cautionary statements that may accompany such
forward-looking statements. In addition, we disclaim any
obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect
events or circumstances after the date of this report.

ITEM 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk

We are exposed to market risk related to potential adverse
changes in interest rates. Management does not generally use
derivative financial instruments for trading or to speculate on
changes in interest rates or commodity prices. Management is
actively involved in monitoring exposure to market risk and
continues to develop and utilize appropriate risk management
techniques. We are not exposed to any other significant market
risks, foreign currency exchange risk or interest rate risk from
the use of derivative financial instruments.

The sensitivity analyses below, which illustrate our
hypothetical potential market risk exposure, estimate the
effects of hypothetical sudden and sustained changes in the
applicable market conditions on 2004 earnings. The sensitivity
analyses presented do not consider any additional actions we may
take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. The hypothetical
changes and assumptions may be different from what actually
occurs in the future.

Interest Rates.

As of December 31, 2004, we had no
derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk.
As such, we are exposed to earnings and fair value risk due to
changes in interest rates with respect to our long-term
obligations. As of December 31, 2003 and 2004, the fair
value of our fixed-rate debt of



$449.6 million and $449.8 million was approximately
$449.2 million and $469.3 million, based upon current
market prices. As of December 31, 2003, the fair value of
our variable rate debt of $56.0 million approximated book
value and the detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a
hypothetical 50 basis point increase in variable interest
rates would be approximately $0.3 million. As of
December 31, 2004, the fair value of our variable rate debt
of $20.8 million approximated book value and the
detrimental effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical
50 basis point increase in variable interest rates would be
approximately $0.1 million.



ITEM 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Page

Report of Management


Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm


Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Operations


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Consolidated Statements of
    Stockholders’ Equity


Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements




REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

Management’s Report on Financial Information and
Procedures

The accompanying financial statements of Quanta Services, Inc.
and its subsidiaries were prepared by management. These
financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States, applying
certain estimates and judgments as required.

Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls
or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or
detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how
well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives
will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the
fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of
controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further,
because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that
misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all
control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the
company have been detected. These inherent limitations include
the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty
and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or
mistakes. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual
acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by
management override of the controls. The design of any system of
controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the
likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that
any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all
potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in
the degree of compliance with policies or procedures.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting

Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting. Our internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, we have conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
based upon the criteria established in

Internal
Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on this evaluation, our management has
concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of December 31, 2004.

Because of its inherent limitations, a system of internal
control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable
assurances and may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with policies and procedures may deteriorate.

Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm, as stated in their report, which appears on the
following page.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

Quanta Services, Inc.

We have completed an integrated audit of Quanta Services,
Inc.’s 2004 consolidated financial statements and of its
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004 and audits of its 2003 and 2002
consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
the accompanying index, present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Quanta Services, Inc. and
its subsidiaries at December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2004 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements, in 2002, the Company changed its method of
accounting for goodwill as a result of adopting the provisions
of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
“Goodwill and other Intangible Assets.”

Internal control over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting, which appears on the preceding page, that the Company
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2004 based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects,
based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on criteria established in

Internal Control —
Integrated Framework

issued by COSO. The Company’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on management’s
assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An
audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we consider
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial



statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Houston, Texas

March 15, 2005



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(In thousands, except share information)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(In thousands, except share information)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In thousands)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In thousands, except share information)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.

BUSINESS AND ORGANIZATION:

Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading provider of
specialized contracting services, offering end-to-end network
solutions to the electric power, gas, telecommunications and
cable television industries. Quanta’s comprehensive
services include designing, installing, repairing and
maintaining network infrastructure.

In the course of its operations, Quanta is subject to certain
risk factors including, but not limited to, risks related to
significant fluctuations in quarterly results, economic
downturns, competition, contract terms, being self-insured
against potential liabilities or for claims that its insurance
carrier fails to pay, occupational health and safety matters,
replacing cancelled or completed contracts, rapid technological
and structural changes in the industries Quanta serves, ability
to obtain or maintain performance bonds, acquisition integration
and financing, dependence on key personnel, unionized workforce,
availability of qualified employees, management of growth,
potential exposure to environmental liabilities, the pursuit of
additional work in the government arena, the requirements of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, access to capital, internal growth
and operating strategies, recoverability of goodwill, and
anti-takeover measures.

2.

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements of Quanta include the
accounts of Quanta and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made in prior years’
financial statements to conform to classifications used in the
current year.

Use of Estimates and Assumptions

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
requires the use of estimates and assumptions by management in
determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist
as of the date the financial statements are published and the
reported amount of revenues and expenses recognized during the
periods presented. Quanta reviews all significant estimates
affecting its consolidated financial statements on a recurring
basis and records the effect of any necessary adjustments prior
to their publication. Judgments and estimates are based on
Quanta’s beliefs and assumptions derived from information
available at the time such judgments and estimates are made.
Uncertainties with respect to such estimates and assumptions are
inherent in the preparation of financial statements. Estimates
are primarily used in Quanta’s assessment of the allowance
for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of
property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing
goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims
liabilities, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion
accounting and provision for income taxes.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Quanta considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an
original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Quanta had non-cash investing and financing activities, pursuant
to its acquisition program. In 2002, Quanta acquired assets
through purchase acquisitions with an estimated fair value, net
of cash acquired, of $2.0 million and liabilities of
$2.5 million, resulting in the recording of
$11.8 million in goodwill. The



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

aggregate consideration paid in these transactions consisted of
$8.0 million in cash, net of cash acquired, and
251,079 shares of common stock. The pro forma effects of
these transactions were not material. During 2003 and 2004,
Quanta did not complete any acquisitions.

Current and Long-Term Accounts and Notes Receivable
    and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Quanta provides an allowance for doubtful accounts when
collection of an account or note receivable is considered
doubtful. Inherent in the assessment of the allowance for
doubtful accounts are certain judgments and estimates including,
among others, the customer’s access to capital, the
customer’s willingness or ability to pay, general economic
conditions and the ongoing relationship with the customer. Under
certain circumstances such as foreclosures or negotiated
settlements, Quanta may take title to the underlying assets in
lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. As of
December 31, 2004, Quanta had allowances for doubtful
accounts of approximately $52.6 million. Certain of
Quanta’s customers, several of them large public
telecommunications carriers and utility customers, have been
experiencing financial difficulties. Should any major customers
file for bankruptcy or continue to experience difficulties, or
should anticipated recoveries relating to receivables in
existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to
materialize, Quanta could experience reduced cash flows and
losses in excess of current allowances provided. In addition,
material changes in Quanta’s customers’ revenues or
cash flows could affect its ability to collect amounts due from
them.

In June 2002, one of Quanta’s customers, Adelphia
Communications Corporation (Adelphia), filed for bankruptcy
protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, as
amended. During the third quarter of 2004, Quanta sold its
prepetition receivable due from Adelphia to a third party for
approximately $29.5 million which approximated its net
carrying value. Quanta received $23.5 million in proceeds
during the third quarter with the remaining $6.0 million of
proceeds being held by the buyer pending the resolution of
certain preferential payment claims. The account receivable
associated with the $6.0 million holdback is recorded in
Accounts and Notes Receivable as of December 31, 2004
as it is uncertain whether the balance will be collected within
one year.

Also included in Accounts and Notes Receivable are amounts
due from a customer relating to the construction of independent
power plants. Quanta has agreed to long-term payment terms for
this customer. The notes receivable from this customer are
partially secured. Quanta has provided allowances for a
significant portion of these notes receivable due to a change in
the economic viability of the plants securing them. The
collectibility of these notes may ultimately depend on the value
of the collateral securing these notes. In addition, Quanta is
involved in negotiations with one of its customers and is
uncertain whether the balance will be collected within one year;
therefore, as of December 31, 2004, Quanta has included the
balance in Accounts and Notes Receivable. As of
December 31, 2004, the total balance due from these two
customers was $54.8 million, net of an allowance for
doubtful accounts of $42.8 million.

The balances billed but not paid by customers pursuant to
retainage provisions in certain contracts will be due upon
completion of the contracts and acceptance by the customer.
Based on Quanta’s experience with similar contracts in
recent years, the majority of the retention balance at each
balance sheet date will be collected within the subsequent
fiscal year. Current retainage balances as of December 31,
2003 and 2004 were approximately $37.2 million and
$30.9 million, and are included in Accounts Receivable.

Due to contractual provisions, certain balances, though the
earnings process is complete, are not billable to customers
until defined milestones are reached. These balances are
considered to be unbilled receivables and are included in
Accounts Receivable at year-end. At December 31, 2003 and
2004, these balances were approximately $43.8 million and
$41.8 million.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Concentration of Credit Risk

Quanta grants credit under normal payment terms, generally
without collateral, to its customers, which include electric
power and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television
system operators, governmental entities, general contractors,
builders and owners and managers of commercial and industrial
properties located primarily in the United States. Consequently,
Quanta is subject to potential credit risk related to changes in
business and economic factors throughout the United States;
however, Quanta generally has certain lien rights with respect
to services provided. No customer accounted for more than 10% of
accounts receivable or revenues as of or for the years ended
December 31, 2003 or 2004.

Inventories

Inventories consist of parts and supplies held for use in the
ordinary course of business and are valued by Quanta at the
lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out
(FIFO) method.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are stated at cost, and depreciation is
computed using the straight-line method, net of estimated
salvage values, over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Leasehold improvements are capitalized and amortized over the
lesser of the life of the lease or the estimated useful life of
the asset. Depreciation and amortization expense related to
property and equipment was approximately $60.2 million,
$59.5 million and $59.7 million for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively.

Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are charged to expense
when incurred. Expenditures for major renewals and betterments,
which extend the useful lives of existing equipment, are
capitalized and depreciated. Upon retirement or disposition of
property and equipment, the cost and related accumulated
depreciation are removed from the accounts and any resulting
gain or loss is recognized in the statements of operations.

Management reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may not be realizable. If an evaluation is required, the
estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the
asset are compared to the asset’s carrying amount to
determine if an impairment of such asset is necessary. The
effect of any impairment would be to expense the difference
between the fair value of such asset and its carrying value. Net
gains and losses from the sale of property and equipment are
reflected in Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.

Debt Issuance Costs

As of December 31, 2003 and 2004, capitalized debt issuance
costs related to Quanta’s credit facility and the
convertible subordinated notes were included in Other Assets,
net and are being amortized into interest expense over the terms
of the respective agreements. As of December 31, 2003 and
2004, capitalized debt issuance costs were $17.8 million
and $19.1 million with accumulated amortization of
$3.2 million and $6.7 million. For the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, amortization expense was
$3.6 million, $3.5 million and $3.5 million,
respectively.

Quanta incurred $7.7 million in debt issuance costs related
to the October 2003 4.5% convertible subordinated notes
offering, which were capitalized and are being amortized over
five years to October 1, 2008, the first date of the
holders’ put option discussed in Note 5. Quanta
capitalized debt issuance costs of $4.4 million in
connection with the credit facility entered into in December
2003. Upon retirement of certain debt and the termination of
Quanta’s former credit facility in the fourth quarter of
2003, Quanta expensed $3.3 million of unamortized debt
issuance costs as part of the loss on early extinguishment of
debt.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Goodwill and Other Intangibles

Effective January 1, 2002, Quanta adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” which
establishes new accounting and reporting requirements for
goodwill and other intangible assets. Under
SFAS No. 142, all goodwill amortization ceased
effective January 1, 2002.

Material amounts of recorded goodwill attributable to each of
Quanta’s reporting units are tested for impairment by
comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its
carrying value. Fair value is determined using a combination of
the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market
capitalization valuation approaches. These impairment tests were
required to be performed at adoption of SFAS No. 142
and at least annually thereafter. Significant estimates used in
the methodologies include estimates of future cash flows, future
short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of
capital and estimates of market multiples for each of the
reportable units. On an ongoing basis, absent any impairment
indicators, Quanta performs impairment tests annually during the
fourth quarter. SFAS No. 142 does not allow increases in the
carrying value of reporting units that may result from
Quanta’s impairment test, therefore Quanta may record
goodwill impairments in the future, even when the aggregate fair
value of Quanta’s reporting units and Quanta as a whole may
increase.

Based on Quanta’s transitional impairment test performed
upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002,
it recognized a $488.5 million non-cash charge,
($445.4 million, net of tax) to reduce the carrying value
of goodwill to the implied fair value of Quanta’s reporting
units. This impairment is a result of adopting a fair value
approach, under SFAS No. 142, to testing impairment of
goodwill as compared to the previous method utilized, as
permitted under accounting standards existing at that time, in
which evaluations of goodwill impairment were made by Quanta
using estimated future undiscounted cash flows to determine if
goodwill would be recoverable. Under SFAS No. 142, the
impairment adjustment recognized at adoption of the new rules
was reflected as a cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle, net of tax, in the year ended December 31, 2002.

Quanta further recognized an interim non-cash goodwill
impairment charge of $166.6 million during the year ended
December 31, 2002. Impairment adjustments recognized after
adoption are required to be recognized as operating expenses.
The primary factor contributing to the interim impairment charge
was the overall deterioration of the business climate during
2002 in the markets Quanta serves as evidenced at the time by an
increased number of bankruptcies in the telecommunications
industry, continued devaluation of several of Quanta’s
customers’ debt and equity securities and pricing pressures
resulting from challenges faced by major industry participants.
During 2003, as part of our annual goodwill test for impairment,
goodwill of $6.5 million was written off as a non-cash
operating expense associated with the closure of one of our
telecom subsidiaries.

A summary of changes in Quanta’s goodwill is as follows (in
thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Balance, January 1

$

1,036,982

$

393,759

$

387,307

Acquisitions and adjustments

11,829

—

—

Impairments

(655,052

)

(6,452

)

—

Balance, December 31,

$

393,759

$

387,307

$

387,307

Quanta has recorded an Other Intangible Asset of
$2.1 million related to customer relationships during 2002.
The estimated life of this intangible asset is eight years and
accumulated amortization as of



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

December 31, 2003 and 2004, was approximately
$0.5 million and $0.8 million. Estimated annual
amortization expense for future periods is approximately
$0.3 million.

Revenue Recognition

Quanta recognizes revenue when services are performed except
when work is being performed under a fixed price contract.
Revenues from fixed price contracts are recognized on the
percentage-of-completion method measured by the percentage of
costs incurred-to-date to total estimated costs for each
contract. Such contracts generally provide that the customer
accept completion of progress to date and compensate Quanta for
services rendered, measured typically in terms of units
installed, hours expended or some other measure of progress.
Contract costs typically include all direct material, labor and
subcontract costs and those indirect costs related to contract
performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs
and depreciation costs. Provisions for the total estimated
losses on uncompleted contracts are made in the period in which
such losses are determined. Changes in job performance, job
conditions, estimated profitability and final contract
settlements may result in revisions to costs and income and
their effects are recognized in the period in which the
revisions are determined.

The current asset “Costs and estimated earnings in excess
of billings on uncompleted contracts” represents revenues
recognized in excess of amounts billed. The current liability
“Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on
uncompleted contracts” represents billings in excess of
revenues recognized.

Income Taxes

Quanta follows the liability method of accounting for income
taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
“Accounting for Income Taxes.” Under this method,
deferred assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax
consequences of temporary differences between the financial
reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and are
measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in
effect when the underlying assets or liabilities are recovered
or settled.

Quanta regularly evaluates valuation allowances established for
deferred tax assets for which future realization is uncertain
and Quanta maintains an allowance for tax contingencies, which
Quanta believes is adequate. The estimation of required
valuation allowances includes estimates of future taxable
income. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is
dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during
the periods in which those temporary differences become
deductible. Quanta considers projected future taxable income and
tax planning strategies in making this assessment. If actual
future taxable income differs from estimates, Quanta may not
realize deferred tax assets to the extent estimated.

Collective Bargaining Agreements

Certain of the subsidiaries are party to various collective
bargaining agreements with certain of their employees. The
agreements require such subsidiaries to pay specified wages and
provide certain benefits to their union employees. These
agreements expire at various times.

Self-Insurance

As of December 31, 2004, Quanta is insured for
employer’s liability and general liability claims, subject
to a deductible of $1,000,000 per occurrence and for auto
liability and workers compensation claims, subject to a
deductible of $2,000,000 per occurrence. In addition,
Quanta maintains a non-union employee related health care
benefits plan that is subject to a deductible of
$250,000 per claimant per year. Losses up to the deductible
amounts are accrued based upon Quanta’s estimates of the
ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims
incurred but not reported. The accruals are based upon known
facts and historical trends and management believes such
accruals to be adequate. As of December 31, 2003, the
amounts accrued for



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

self-insurance claims totaled $62.3 million, with
$36.2 million considered to be long-term and included in
Other Non-Current Liabilities. As of December 31, 2004, the
gross amounts accrued for self-insurance claims totaled
$92.6 million, with $56.3 million considered to be
long-term and included in Other Non-Current Liabilities, and
related insurance recoveries/receivables were $7.0 million,
of which $4.1 million is included in Prepaid Expenses and
Other Current Assets and $2.9 million is included in Other
Assets, net.

Quanta’s casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods
from August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 is
experiencing financial distress but is currently paying valid
claims. In the event that this insurer’s financial
situation deteriorates, Quanta may be required to pay certain
obligations that otherwise would have been paid by this insurer.
Quanta estimates that the total future claim amount that this
insurer is currently obligated to pay on Quanta’s behalf
for the above-mentioned policy periods is approximately
$4.0 million, and Quanta has recorded a receivable and
corresponding liability of such amount as of December 31,
2004 included in the insurance recoveries/receivables and
liabilities discussed above. However, Quanta’s estimate of
the potential range of these future claim amounts is between
$2.0 million and $9.0 million. The actual amounts
ultimately paid by Quanta related to these claims, if any, may
vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by
further claims development and the extent to which the insurer
could not honor its obligations. Quanta continues to monitor the
financial situation of this insurer and analyze any alternative
actions that could be pursued. In any event, Quanta does not
expect any failure by this insurer to honor its obligations to
Quanta, or any alternative actions Quanta may pursue, to have a
material adverse impact on Quanta’s financial condition;
however, the impact could be material to Quanta’s results
of operations or cash flows in a given period.

As of December 31, 2003, Quanta had restricted cash
pursuant to an obligation with Quanta’s casualty insurance
policy for the period from March 1, 2003 to
February 29, 2004. As of December 31, 2003, the
balance of the restricted cash was $9.3 million of which
$8.7 million was classified in Prepaid Expenses and Other
Current Assets and $0.6 million was classified in Other
Assets, net. The total balance of restricted cash was used to
pay claims in 2004 and there was no restricted cash as of
December 31, 2004.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts
receivable, accounts payable, the credit facility and notes
payable to various financial institutions approximate fair
value. The fair value of the convertible subordinated notes is
estimated based on quoted secondary market prices for these
notes as of year-end. At December 31, 2003 and 2004, the
fair value of Quanta’s 4.0% convertible subordinated
notes of $172.5 million was approximately
$157.2 million and $164.7 million. At
December 31, 2003 and 2004, the fair value of Quanta’s
4.5% convertible subordinated notes of $270.0 million
was approximately $284.9 million and $297.3 million.

Stock Based Compensation

Through December 31, 2004, Quanta accounted for its
stock-based compensation under APB Opinion No. 25
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” Under this
accounting method, no compensation expense is recognized in the
consolidated statements of operations if no intrinsic value of
the option exists at the date of grant. In December 2004, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based
Payment (SFAS No. 123R), requiring companies to
account for stock based compensation awards based on the fair
value of the awards at the date they are granted. The resulting
compensation cost would be shown as an expense in the
consolidated statements of operations. SFAS No. 123R
is effective beginning in the third quarter of 2005. Until
effective, disclosure is required as to what net income and
earnings per share would have been had the fair value method
been followed for our stock option awards outstanding under the
2001 Stock Incentive Plan and stock issued pursuant to our
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The expense recognition for
the restricted stock awards are the same under APB Opinion
No. 25 and SFAS No. 123R with expense being
recognized in the financial statements.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The fair market value of each option grant is estimated on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with
the following assumptions for 2002: (i) risk-free interest
rates ranging from 3.45% to 5.27%, (ii) expected life of
6.7 years, (iii) average volatility of 144.5%
(iv) dividend yield of 0%. There were no option grants
during 2003 and 2004.

For the ESPP, compensation cost approximates the difference
between the fair value of Quanta’s common stock and the
actual common stock purchase price on the date of grant.

Had compensation costs for the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan and the
ESPP been determined consistent with SFAS No. 123,
Quanta’s net income attributable to common stock and
earnings per share would have been reduced to the following as
adjusted amounts, which also approximate the effect of SFAS No.
123R (in thousands, except per share information):

The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in the as
adjusted disclosure may not be indicative of future amounts as
additional awards may or may not be awarded. See Note 8 for
additional discussion of Quanta’s stock incentive plans.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In September 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force
(EITF) discussed EITF Issue 04-08, “Accounting
Issues Related to Certain Features of Contingently Convertible
Debt and the Effect on Diluted Earnings per Share.” The
EITF reached a consensus that would require all issued
securities with contingent conversion features containing market
price contingencies based on a company’s stock price to be
accounted for using the “if converted” method in
calculating earnings per share. This EITF would require that
earnings per share be retroactively restated for the effect of
conversion of any contingently convertible debt instruments
starting with the issuance date of the contingently convertible
debt instrument. The consensus is effective for Quanta on
December 31, 2004. Our 4.5% convertible subordinated
notes contain contingent conversion features; however the
adoption of EITF 04-08 does not impact of our earnings per
share as reported as the effect of assuming conversion of the
4.5% convertible subordinated notes would be antidilutive
for all periods since the date of issuance. However, the effect
of this EITF increases the likelihood that these notes could
have a dilutive effect in the future.

In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based
Payment” (SFAS No. 123R). SFAS No. 123R
requires companies to recognize an expense for the value of
employee stock-based compensation. Cost of Quanta’s stock
option awards under our 2001 Stock Incentive Plan and stock
issued pursuant to our ESPP will be measured at fair value on
the awards grant date, based on the estimated number



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

of awards that are expected to vest. Companies are to select
from three transition methods. Quanta is currently evaluating
the three transition methods for adopting
SFAS No. 123R. SFAS No. 123R is effective
for interim and annual periods beginning after June 15,
2005. Quanta’s existing pro forma disclosure included above
presents the approximate impact of SFAS No. 123R had
it been adopted in the periods presented. Quanta continues to
assess the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123R, including
the need for changes in our compensation strategies.
Statement No. 123R also requires the benefits of tax
deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be
reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating
cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement
will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing
cash flows in periods after adoption.

In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 153, “Exchanges of
Nonmonetary Assets — an amendment of APB Opinion
No. 29,” which modifies the existing guidance on
accounting for nonmonetary transactions in Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 29, “Accounting for Nonmonetary
Transactions,” to eliminate an exception under which
certain exchanges of similar productive nonmonetary assets were
not accounted for at fair value. SFAS No. 153 instead
provides a general exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets
that do not have commercial substance. This statement must be
applied to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal
periods beginning after June 15, 2005. Quanta does not
anticipate that the adoption of SFAS No. 153 will have a
material impact on Quanta’s results of operations or
financial position.

3.

PER SHARE INFORMATION:

Earnings (loss) per share amounts are based on the weighted
average number of shares of common stock and common stock
equivalents outstanding during the period.

For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, stock
options for approximately 7.9 million, 0.9 million and
0.7 million shares, respectively, were excluded from the
computation of diluted earnings per share because the
options’ exercise prices were greater than the average
market price of Quanta’s common stock. For the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, approximately 116,000,
16,000 and 41,000, respectively, stock options with exercise
prices lower than the average market price of Quanta’s
common stock were also excluded from the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the effect of including them would be
antidilutive. For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003
and 2004, the effect of assuming conversion of the convertible
subordinated notes would be antidilutive and they were therefore
excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. For
the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, none,
0.9 million and 0.7 million shares, respectively,
of non-vested restricted stock were excluded from the
calculation of diluted earnings per share as the impact would
have been antidilutive.

4.

DETAIL OF CERTAIN BALANCE SHEET ACCOUNTS:

Activity in Quanta’s current and long-term allowance for
doubtful accounts consists of the following (in thousands):

December 31,




Balance at beginning of year

$

35,856

$

65,974

$

73,680

Acquired balances


—

—

Charged to expense

35,710

19,890


Deductions for uncollectible receivables written off, net of
    recoveries

(5,612

)

(12,184

)

(21,479

)

Balance at end of year

$

65,974

$

73,680

$

52,560



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Contracts in progress are as follows (in thousands):

Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):

Estimated

Useful

December 31,

Lives in

Years



Land

—

$

3,750

$

3,597

Buildings and leasehold improvements

5-30

14,421

15,236

Operating equipment and vehicles

5-25

534,278

550,809

Office equipment, furniture and fixtures

3-7

22,113

22,816

574,562

592,458

Less — Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(233,020

)

(277,475

)

Property and equipment, net

$

341,542

$

314,983

Accounts payable and accrued expenses consists of the following
(in thousands):

December 31,



Accounts payable, trade

$

76,437

$

84,147

Accrued compensation and related expenses

30,607

32,992

Accrued insurance

29,191

44,095

Accrued interest and fees

2,756

3,141

Federal and state taxes payable, including contingencies

18,052

21,778

Other accrued expenses

20,198

17,503

$

177,241

$

203,656



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

5.

LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS:

Quanta’s long-term debt obligations consist of the
following (in thousands):

Credit Facility

As of December 31, 2004, Quanta had a $185.0 million
credit facility with various lenders. The credit facility
consisted of a $150.0 million letter of credit facility
maturing on June 19, 2008, which also provides for term
loans, and a $35.0 million revolving credit facility
maturing on December 19, 2007, which provides for revolving
loans and letters of credit. On January 4, 2005, the
maximum availability under the letter of credit facility was
automatically reduced by $1.5 million, resulting in current
maximum availability of $183.5 million, and will be
automatically reduced by $1.5 million on December 31
of each year thereafter.

As of December 31, 2004, the letter of credit facility was
linked to a $150.0 million deposit made by the lenders,
which is held in an account with Bank of America, N.A. This
deposit may be used either to support letters of credit or, to
the extent that amounts available under the facility are not
used to support letters of credit, for term loans. As of
December 31, 2004, Quanta was required to maintain total
borrowings outstanding under the letter of credit facility equal
to the $150.0 million available through a combination of
letters of credit or term loans. We had approximately
$128.9 million of letters of credit issued under the letter
of credit facility and $20.8 million of the letter of
credit facility outstanding as a term loan. The remaining
$0.3 million was available for issuing new letters of
credit. In the event that Quanta desires to issue additional
letters of credit under the letter of credit facility, Quanta is
required to make cash repayments of debt outstanding under the
term loan portion of the letter of credit facility in an amount
that approximates the additional letters of credit to be issued.
The weighted average interest rate for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2004 associated with amounts
outstanding under the term loan was 4.15% and 4.44%.

Under the letter of credit facility, Quanta is subject to a fee
equal to 3.00% to 3.25% of the letters of credit outstanding,
depending upon the occurrence of certain events, plus an
additional 0.15% of the amount outstanding to the extent the
funds in the deposit account do not earn interest equal to the
London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR). Term loans under the
letter of credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to
either (a) the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the credit
facility) plus 3.00% to 3.25% or (b) the Base Rate (as
described below) plus 3.00% to 3.25%, depending upon the
occurrence of certain events. The Base Rate equals the higher of
(i) the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the credit
facility) plus 1/2 of 1% and (ii) the bank’s prime
rate.

Quanta had approximately $3.9 million of letters of credit
issued under the revolving credit facility, and borrowing
availability under the revolving credit facility was
$31.1 million as of December 31, 2004. Amounts
borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a
rate equal to either (a) the Eurodollar Rate plus



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

1.75% to 3.00%, as determined by the ratio of Quanta’s
total funded debt to EBITDA, or (b) the Base Rate plus
0.25% to 1.50%, as determined by the ratio of Quanta’s
total funded debt to EBITDA. Letters of credit issued under the
revolving credit facility are subject to a letter of credit fee
of 1.75% to 3.00%, based on the ratio of Quanta’s total
funded debt to EBITDA. If Quanta chooses to cash collateralize
letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility,
those letters of credit will be subject to a letter of credit
fee of 0.50%. Quanta is also subject to a commitment fee of
0.375% to 0.625%, based on the ratio of its total funded debt to
EBITDA, on any unused availability under the revolving credit
facility.

The credit facility contains certain covenants, including a
maximum funded debt to EBITDA ratio, a maximum senior debt to
EBITDA ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, a minimum asset
coverage ratio and a minimum consolidated net worth covenant. As
of December 31, 2004, Quanta was in compliance with all of
its covenants. However, other conditions such as, but not
limited to, unforeseen project delays or cancellations, adverse
weather conditions or poor contract performance, could adversely
affect Quanta’s ability to comply with its covenants in the
future. The credit facility also limits acquisitions, capital
expenditures and asset sales and, subject to some exceptions,
prohibits liens on material assets, stock repurchase programs
and the payment of dividends (other than dividend payments or
other distributions payable solely in capital stock). Currently,
however, the credit facility allows Quanta to pay dividends and
engage in stock repurchase programs in the amount of
$25.0 million in 2005 and in any fiscal year thereafter in
an aggregate amount up to twenty-five percent of Quanta’s
consolidated net income (plus the amount of non-cash charges
that reduced such consolidated net income) for the prior fiscal
year. The credit facility carries cross-default provisions with
all of Quanta’s other debt instruments exceeding
$2.0 million in borrowings.

The credit facility is secured by a pledge of all of the capital
stock of Quanta’s U.S. subsidiaries, 65% of the
capital stock of Quanta’s foreign subsidiaries and
substantially all of Quanta’s assets. Borrowings under the
credit facility are to be used for working capital, capital
expenditures and for other general corporate purposes.
Quanta’s U.S. subsidiaries guarantee the repayment of
all amounts due under the credit facility. Quanta’s
obligations under the credit facility constitute designated
senior indebtedness under its 4.0% and 4.5% convertible
subordinated notes.

4.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes

As of December 31, 2004, Quanta had $172.5 million of
4.0% convertible subordinated notes outstanding. These
4.0% convertible subordinated notes are registered and
convertible into shares of Quanta’s common stock at a price
of $54.53 per share, subject to adjustment as a result of
certain events. These 4.0% convertible subordinated notes
require semi-annual interest payments on July 1 and
December 31 until the notes mature on July 1, 2007.
Quanta has the option to redeem the 4.0% convertible
subordinated notes beginning July 3, 2003 at specified
redemption prices, together with accrued and unpaid interest;
however early redemption is prohibited by Quanta’s credit
facility. If certain fundamental changes occur, as described in
the indenture, holders of the 4.0% convertible subordinated
notes may require Quanta to purchase all or part of the notes at
a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus
accrued and unpaid interest.

4.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes

As of December 31, 2004, Quanta had $270.0 million of
4.5% convertible subordinated notes outstanding. These
4.5% convertible subordinated notes are registered and
convertible into shares of Quanta’s common stock at a price
of $11.14 per share, subject to adjustment as a result of
certain events. The 4.5% convertible subordinated notes
require semi-annual interest payments on April 1 and
October 1, until they mature on October 1, 2023.

The 4.5% convertible subordinated notes are convertible by
the holder if (i) during any fiscal quarter the last
reported sale price of Quanta’s common stock is greater
than or equal to 120% of the conversion price for at least 20
trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending
on the first trading day of such



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

fiscal quarter, (ii) during the five business day period
after any five consecutive trading day period in which the
trading price per note for each day of that period was less than
98% of the product of the last reported sale price of
Quanta’s common stock and the conversion rate,
(iii) upon Quanta calling the notes for redemption or
(iv) upon the occurrence of specified corporate
transactions. If the notes become convertible under one of these
circumstances, Quanta has the option to deliver cash, shares of
Quanta’s common stock or a combination thereof, with a
value equal to the par value of the notes divided by the
conversion price multiplied by the average trading price of
Quanta’s common stock. The maximum number of shares of
common stock that could be issued under these circumstances is
equal to the par value of the notes divided by the conversion
price. During the year ended December 31, 2004, none of the
circumstances permitting conversion had occurred.

Beginning October 8, 2008, Quanta may redeem for cash some
or all of the 4.5% convertible subordinated notes at par
value plus accrued and unpaid interest; however early redemption
is prohibited by Quanta’s credit facility. The holders of
the 4.5% convertible subordinated notes may require Quanta
to repurchase all or some of the notes at par value plus accrued
and unpaid interest on October 1, 2008, 2013 or 2018, or
upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined by the
indenture under which Quanta issued the notes. Quanta must pay
any required repurchases on October 1, 2008 in cash. For
all other required repurchases, Quanta has the option to deliver
cash, shares of its common stock or a combination thereof to
satisfy its repurchase obligation. Quanta presently does not
anticipate using stock to satisfy any future obligations. If
Quanta were to satisfy the obligation with shares of its common
stock, the number of shares delivered will equal the dollar
amount to be paid in common stock divided by 98.5% of the market
price of Quanta’s common stock, as defined by the
indenture. The number of shares to be issued under this
circumstance is not limited. The right to settle for shares of
common stock can be surrendered by Quanta. The
4.5% convertible subordinated notes carry cross-default
provisions with Quanta’s credit facility and any other debt
instrument that exceeds $10.0 million in borrowings.

Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt

During the year ended December 31, 2003, Quanta recognized
a $35.1 million loss on early extinguishment of debt
relating to the termination of a former credit facility and the
retirement of certain other debt. Included in this amount is a
make-whole prepayment premium for $31.3 million, write-off
of unamortized debt issuance costs of $3.3 million together
with other related costs of $0.5 million.

Maturities

The maturities of long-term debt obligations, excluding capital
leases, as of December 31, 2004, are as follows (in
thousands):

Year Ending December 31 —


$

4,515




172,592


290,800


—

$

468,270

See discussion of capital leases in Note 11.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

6.

INCOME TAXES:

The components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes are
as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Federal —

Current

$

(29,118

)

$

(43,446

)

$

6,555

Deferred

7,782

26,970

(9,623

)

State and foreign taxes —

Current

3,303

(1,618

)

3,074

Deferred

(1,677

)


(3,457

)

$

(19,710

)

$

(18,080

)

$

(3,451

)

Actual income tax provision (benefit) differs from the income
tax provision (benefit) computed by applying the
U.S. federal statutory corporate rate to the income before
provision for income taxes as follows (in thousands):



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the
recognition of income and expenses for financial reporting
purposes and for tax purposes. The tax effects of these
temporary differences, representing deferred tax assets and
liabilities, result principally from the following (in
thousands):

The net deferred income tax assets and liabilities are comprised
of the following (in thousands):

The current deferred income tax assets, net of current deferred
income tax liabilities, are included in Prepaid Expenses and
Other Current Assets.

At December 31, 2004, Quanta had federal net operating loss
carryforwards, the tax effect of which is approximately
$26.9 million. These carryforwards, which may provide
future tax benefits, begin to expire in 2020. Quanta also had
state net operating loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which
is approximately $14.3 million. These carryforwards will
expire as follows: 2006, $0.1 million; 2007,
$0.6 million; 2008, $1.1 million; 2009,
$0.8 million and $11.7 million thereafter.

In assessing the value of deferred tax assets at
December 31, 2004, Quanta considered whether it was more
likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets
would not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax
assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income
during the periods in which



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

those temporary differences become deductible. Quanta considers
the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected
future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this
assessment. Based upon these considerations, Quanta provided a
valuation allowance to reduce the carrying value of certain of
its deferred tax assets to their net expected realizable value
at December 31, 2004. In 2002, a portion of the valuation
allowance was recorded through the cumulative effect of change
in accounting principle, as it related to deferred tax assets
recorded as part of the adoption of SFAS No. 142.

Quanta has received refund claims in the amounts of
$38.1 million in 2003 and $30.2 million in 2004 from
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) due to the carry back of
taxable losses reported on Quanta’s 2002 and 2003 income
tax returns. The IRS is required by law to review Quanta’s
claims and has notified Quanta of its intent to conduct an
examination of Quanta’s 2002 tax return. This examination
began in 2004 and remains ongoing. Quanta’s 2003 income tax
return will be subject to a comparable review. Quanta fully
cooperates with all audits, but defends existing positions
vigorously. To provide for potential tax exposures, Quanta
maintains an allowance for tax contingencies, which management
believes is adequate. The results of future audit assessments,
if any, could have a material effect on Quanta’s cash flows
as these audits are completed. However, management does not
believe that any of these matters will have a material adverse
effect on Quanta’s consolidated results of operations.

During 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 was signed
into law. The primary effect of this legislation will be to
permit potentially favorable federal income tax treatment
related to certain of Quanta’s construction-related
activities. However, Quanta does not currently expect any
benefit from the new law for 2005.

7.

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY:

Series A Convertible Preferred Stock

In September 1999, Quanta issued shares of Series A
Convertible Preferred Stock, $.00001 par value per share.
During 2002, 245,000 shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock were converted into shares of common stock.
During the first quarter of 2003, all remaining outstanding
shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were
converted into shares of common stock and the series was
eliminated during the second quarter of 2003. Any dividends that
had accrued on the respective shares of Series A Preferred
Stock were forfeited and reversed on the date of conversion,
which resulted in a $2.1 million forfeiture for the year
ended December 31, 2003.

Series E Preferred Stock and Redeemable Common
    Stock

During the fourth quarter of 2002, First Reserve Fund IX,
L.P. (First Reserve) purchased from Quanta approximately
2.4 million shares of newly issued Series E Preferred
Stock at $30.00 per share. The Series E Preferred
Stock was converted into 24.3 million shares of common
stock on December 31, 2002 and the series was eliminated
during the second quarter of 2003.

The original as-converted share price for the Series E
Preferred Stock on October 15, 2002 was $3.00 per share
which was an above market price. On December 20, 2002, the
date the Series E Preferred Stock was purchased,
Quanta’s stock closed at $3.35 per share. Accordingly,
Quanta recorded a non-cash beneficial conversion charge of
$8.5 million based on the $0.35 per share
differential. The non-cash beneficial conversion charge is
recognized as a deemed dividend to the Series E Preferred
Stockholder and is recorded as a decrease to net income
attributable to common stock and an increase in additional
paid-in capital. The non-cash beneficial conversion charge had
no effect on Quanta’s operating income, cash flows or
stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2002.

Through February 20, 2003, First Reserve had the right to
require Quanta to repurchase for cash the shares of common stock
issued as a result of the conversion of the shares of
Series E Preferred Stock if Quanta



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

had a change in control. On February 20, 2003, at the
expiration of this right, the Redeemable Common Stock was
reclassified to stockholders’ equity.

In connection with their investment, First Reserve is entitled
to a pre-emptive right to purchase shares of common stock upon
Quanta’s issuance of shares to third parties. During 2003,
First Reserve acquired 1,201,128 shares pursuant to such
right.

Stockholder Rights Plan

Quanta has adopted a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which
one right will be issued and attached to each outstanding share
of common stock. The following description of Quanta’s
stockholder rights plan and the certificate of designations
setting forth the terms and conditions of the Series D
Junior Preferred Stock are intended as summaries only and are
qualified in their entirety by reference to the form of
stockholder rights plan and certificate of designations to the
certificate of incorporation filed with the SEC.

Until a distribution date occurs, the rights can be transferred
only with the common stock. On the occurrence of a distribution
date, the rights will separate from the common stock and become
exercisable as described below.

A “distribution date” will occur upon the earlier of:

•

the tenth day after a public announcement that a person or group
    of affiliated or associated persons other than Quanta and
    certain exempt persons (an “acquiring person”) has
    acquired beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the total voting
    rights of the then outstanding shares of Quanta’s common
    stock (or, in the case of First Reserve, 37% or more of the
    total voting rights); or

•

the tenth business day following the commencement of a tender or
    exchange offer that would result in such person or group
    becoming an acquiring person.

Following the distribution date, holders of rights will be
entitled to purchase from Quanta one one-thousandth (1/1000th)
of a share of Series D Junior Preferred Stock at a purchase
price of $153.33, subject to adjustment.

In the event that any person or group becomes an acquiring
person, proper provision shall be made so that each holder of a
right, other than rights beneficially owned by the acquiring
person, will thereafter have the right to receive upon payment
of the purchase price, that number of shares of common stock
having a market value equal to the result obtained by
(A) multiplying the then current purchase price by the
number of one one-thousandths of a share of Series D Junior
Preferred Stock for which the right is then exercisable, and
dividing that product by (B) 50% of the current per share
market price of our shares of common stock on the date of such
occurrence. If, following the date of a public announcement that
an acquiring person has become such, (1) Quanta is acquired
in a merger or other business combination transaction and Quanta
is not the surviving corporation, (2) any person
consolidates or merges with Quanta and all or part of the common
stock is converted or exchanged for securities, cash or property
of any other person, or (3) 50% or more of Quanta’s
assets or earning power is sold or transferred, then the rights
will “flip-over.” At that time, each right will
entitle its holder to purchase, for the purchase price, a number
of shares of common stock of the surviving entity in any such
merger, consolidation or other business combination or the
purchaser in any such sale or transfer with a market value equal
to the result obtained by (X) multiplying the then current
purchase price by the number of one one-thousandths of a share
of Series D Junior Preferred Stock for which the right is
then exercisable, and dividing that product by (Y) 50% of
the current per share market price of the shares of common stock
of the surviving entity on the date of consummation of such
consolidation, merger, sale or transfer.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The rights will expire on March 8, 2010, unless Quanta
terminates them before that time. A holder of a right will not
have any rights as a stockholder of Quanta, including the right
to vote or to receive dividends, until a right is exercised.

Limited Vote Common Stock

The shares of Limited Vote Common Stock have rights similar
to shares of common stock, except that such shares are entitled
to elect one member of the board of directors and are entitled
to one-tenth of one vote for each share held on all other
matters. Each share of Limited Vote Common Stock will
convert into common stock upon disposition by the holder of such
shares in accordance with the transfer restrictions applicable
to such shares. In 2002, 32,488 shares, in 2003,
16,000 shares and in 2004, 55,970 shares of Limited
Vote Common Stock, respectively, were converted to common
stock.

Treasury Stock

On October 16, 2000 the board of directors of Quanta
authorized a Stock Repurchase Plan under which up to
$75.0 million of Quanta’s common stock could be
repurchased. Under the Stock Repurchase Plan, Quanta could
conduct purchases through open market transactions in accordance
with applicable securities laws. On March 13, 2002,
986,000 shares of common stock previously purchased were
sold to Quanta’s Stock Employee Compensation Trust (SECT),
a trust formed in 2002 to fund certain of Quanta’s future
employee benefit obligations using Quanta’s common stock,
and were no longer considered treasury stock. These shares were
subsequently retired on June 28, 2002, after Quanta
terminated the SECT. During 2002, Quanta purchased
924,500 shares of its common stock for approximately
$11.7 million under the Stock Repurchase Plan. As of
July 1, 2002, the independent committee of Quanta’s
board of directors determined to cease the Stock Repurchase Plan.

Quanta acquired into treasury 69 shares in 2003 and
342,261 shares in 2004 of previously granted restricted
stock for settlement of employee tax liabilities pursuant to the
2001 Stock Incentive Plan discussed in Note 8.

Deferred Compensation

Under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan discussed in Note 8,
shares of Quanta’s common stock are issued at the fair
market value of the common stock at the date of issuance. As
restricted stock, the shares are subject to forfeiture and other
restrictions until they vest, generally over three years in
equal annual installments. However, during the restriction
period, the plan participants are entitled to vote and receive
dividends on such shares. Upon issuance of shares of restricted
stock under the plan, an unamortized compensation expense
equivalent to the market value of the shares on the date of
grant is charged to stockholders’ equity and is amortized
over the restriction period as non-cash compensation expense. If
shares of restricted stock are cancelled during a given period,
any remaining unamortized deferred compensation expense related
to the issuance is reversed against additional paid-in capital.
Compensation expense recognized with respect to restricted stock
awards during the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and
2004 was approximately $219,000 and $2.8 million, and
$4.6 million respectively.

8.

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS:

Stock Incentive Plan

In December 1997, the board of directors adopted, and the
stockholders of Quanta approved, the 1997 Stock Option Plan. In
May 2000, the 1997 Stock Option Plan was amended to expand the
definition of “Stock” to include Quanta’s
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, common stock and
Limited Vote Common Stock. In May 2001, the 1997 Stock
Option Plan was amended and renamed the 2001 Stock Incentive



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Plan. In November 2001, the plan was amended to allow certain
employees to participate. The plan was further amended during
2002 to make explicit the Compensation Committee’s power to
grant shares of restricted stock in exchange for options and to
reduce the aggregate number of shares available for issuance
under the plan from 15% to 12% of the outstanding shares of
stock. The purpose of the plan is to provide directors, key
employees, officers and certain advisors with additional
incentives by increasing their proprietary interest in Quanta.

The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grant of
incentive stock options (ISOs) as defined in Section 422 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code),
nonqualified stock options and restricted stock (collectively,
the Awards). The amount of ISOs that may be granted under the
2001 Stock Incentive Plan is limited to 3,571,275 shares.
The 2001 Stock Incentive Plan is administered by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The
Compensation Committee has, subject to applicable regulation and
the terms of the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, the authority to
grant Awards under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, to construe
and interpret the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan and to make all
other determinations and take any and all actions necessary or
advisable for the administration of the 2001 Stock Incentive
Plan; provided, however, that Quanta’s Chief Executive
Officer has the authority to grant restricted stock or
nonqualified stock options to individuals who are not officers,
provided that (i) the aggregate number of shares of common
stock issuable upon the exercise of non-qualified stock options
granted in any one calendar quarter does not exceed
100,000 shares and the aggregate value of awards of
restricted stock granted in any one calendar quarter does not
exceed $250,000 determined based on the fair market value of the
common stock at the time of the grants, and (ii) the
aggregate number of shares of common stock issuable upon the
exercise of non-qualified stock options granted to any
individual in any one calendar quarter does not exceed
20,000 shares of common stock and the aggregate value of
awards of restricted stock granted in any one calendar quarter
to any individual does not exceed $25,000 determined based on
the fair market value of the common stock at the time of the
grants.

All of Quanta’s employees (including officers),
non-employee directors and certain consultants and advisors are
eligible to receive Awards under the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan,
but only employees of Quanta are eligible to receive ISOs.
Awards will be exercisable during the period specified in each
Award agreement and will generally become exercisable in
installments pursuant to a vesting schedule designated by the
Compensation Committee. Unless specifically provided otherwise
in the Award agreement, Awards become immediately vested and
exercisable in the event of a “change in control” (as
defined in the 2001 Stock Incentive Plan) of Quanta. No option
will remain exercisable later than ten years after the date of
grant (or five years in the case of ISOs granted to employees
owning more than 10% of the voting capital stock).



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table summarizes option activity under the 2001
Stock Incentive Plan for the years ended December 31, 2002,
2003 and 2004 (shares in thousands):

Generally, options exercisable are based on term vesting periods
as outlined in each option agreement. The majority of
Quanta’s options were issued with a four year vesting term.

The following table summarizes information for outstanding
options at December 31, 2004 (shares in thousands):



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

On January 21, 2003, Quanta offered eligible employees and
consultants the opportunity to exchange certain outstanding
stock options, with an exercise price of $10.00 or more, for
restricted shares of Quanta’s common stock at an exchange
ratio of one share of restricted stock for every 2.24 option
shares tendered. Of the eligible options pursuant to the offer,
520,267 options were not exchanged. Of those options, 264,683
remain outstanding and will be required to be accounted for
under variable plan accounting under APB Opinion No. 25.
The weighted average exercise price of these remaining eligible
options is $25.40. In the future, to the extent that
Quanta’s stock price exceeds the exercise price of an
eligible option that was not exchanged, the difference will be
recorded as a non-cash compensation charge with an offset to
additional paid-in capital. No charges have been recorded with
respect to these options under variable plan accounting through
December 31, 2004.

Restricted Stock

As discussed above, Quanta offered eligible employees and
consultants the opportunity to exchange certain outstanding
stock options for restricted shares of Quanta’s common
stock. Regardless of the vesting schedule of the eligible
options offered for exchange, the restricted stock granted in
the offer typically vests over three years on February 28 of
each year, beginning February 28, 2004, assuming the
employee or consultant continues to meet the requirements for
vesting. On March 10, 2003, Quanta accepted for exchange
and canceled eligible options to purchase an aggregate of
6,769,483 shares of its common stock. Pursuant to the 2001
Stock Incentive Plan discussed above, Quanta granted
95,903 shares, 3,431,354 shares, and
799,510 shares of restricted stock with a weighted average
grant price of $3.27, $3.10 and $7.02, respectively, during the
years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004. As of
December 31, 2003 and 2004, 3.2 million and
2.4 million shares of unvested restricted stock were
outstanding. The non-cash compensation expense recognized with
respect to all restricted stock during the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 was approximately
$219,000, $2.8 million and $4.6 million.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

An Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the ESPP) was adopted by the
board of directors of Quanta and was approved by the
stockholders of Quanta in May 1999. The purpose of the ESPP is
to provide an incentive for employees of Quanta and any
Participating Company (as defined in the ESPP) to acquire or
increase a proprietary interest in Quanta through the purchase
of shares of Quanta’s common stock. At the date hereof, all
of the existing domestic subsidiaries of Quanta have been
designated as Participating Companies. The ESPP is intended to
qualify as an “Employee Stock Purchase Plan” under
Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the Code). The provisions of the ESPP are construed in
a manner consistent with the requirements of that section of the
Code. The ESPP is administered by a committee, appointed from
time to time, by the board of directors. The ESPP is not subject
to any of the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended. During 2002, 2003 and 2004,
respectively, Quanta issued a total of 662,147 shares,
1,148,632 shares and 537,479, respectively, pursuant to the
ESPP.

9.

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:

Union’s Multi-Employer Pension Plans

In connection with its collective bargaining agreements with
various unions, Quanta participates with other companies in the
unions’ multi-employer pension plans. These plans cover all
of Quanta’s employees who are members of such unions. The
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by
the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, imposes
certain liabilities upon employers who are contributors to a
multi-employer plan in the event of the employer’s
withdrawal from, or upon termination of such plan. Quanta has no
plans to withdraw from these plans. The plans do not maintain
information on the net assets and actuarial present value of the
plans’ unfunded vested benefits allocable to Quanta, and the



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

amounts, if any, for which Quanta may be contingently liable,
are not ascertainable at this time. Contributions to all union
multi-employer pension plans by Quanta were approximately
$35.1 million, $41.8 million and $46.2 million
for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004.

401(k) Plan

Effective February 1, 1999, Quanta adopted a 401(k) plan
pursuant to which employees who are not provided retirement
benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make
contributions through a payroll deduction. Quanta will make a
matching cash contribution of 100% of each employee’s
contribution up to 3% of that employee’s salary and 50% of
each employee’s contribution between 3% and 6% of such
employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by
law. Prior to joining Quanta’s 401(k) plan, certain
subsidiaries of Quanta provided various defined contribution
plans to their employees. Contributions to all non-union defined
contribution plans by Quanta were approximately
$7.2 million, $6.0 million and $5.5 million for
the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004,
respectively.

10.

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS:

Aquila Inc. (Aquila) had made investments in Quanta, which were
sold during 2003. Quanta had transactions in the normal course
of business with Aquila during 2003. Subsequent to the initial
investment by Aquila, revenues from Aquila in 2002 and 2003 were
approximately $29.7 million and $15.4 million, and
balances due Quanta at year-end were approximately
$2.6 million and $3.1 million, respectively. In
addition, Quanta performed work for an affiliate of Aquila with
revenues in 2002 of $0.4 million.

Certain of Quanta’s subsidiaries have entered into related
party lease arrangements for operational facilities. These lease
agreements generally have a term of five years. Related party
lease expense for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003
and 2004, respectively, was approximately $3.6 million,
$3.2 million and $3.0 million.

11.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:

Leases

Quanta leases certain buildings and equipment under
non-cancelable lease agreements including related party leases
as discussed in Note 10. The terms of these agreements vary
from lease to lease, including some



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

with renewal options and escalation clauses. The following
schedule shows the future minimum lease payments under these
leases as of December 31, 2004 (in thousands):

Rent expense related to operating leases was approximately
$31.3 million, $48.5 million and $51.8 million
for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004,
respectively. Assets under capital leases are included as part
of property and equipment.

Quanta has guaranteed the residual value on certain of its
equipment operating leases. Quanta guarantees the difference
between this residual value and the fair market value of the
underlying asset at the date of termination of the leases. At
December 31, 2004, the maximum guaranteed residual value
would have been approximately $100.2 million. Quanta
believes that no significant payments will be made as a result
of the difference between the fair market value of the leased
equipment and the guaranteed residual value. However, there can
be no assurance that future significant payments will not be
required.

Litigation

Quanta is from time to time party to various lawsuits, claims
and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of
business. These actions typically seek, among other things,
compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract,
property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other
losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to all
such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, Quanta accrues reserves
when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the
amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Quanta does not
believe that any of these proceedings, separately or in the
aggregate, would be expected to have a material adverse effect
on Quanta’s results of operations or financial position.

Performance Bonds

In certain circumstances, Quanta is required to provide
performance bonds in connection with its contractual
commitments. Quanta has indemnified the surety for any expenses
paid out under these performance bonds. As of December 31,
2004, the total amount of outstanding performance bonds was
approximately $481.5 million.



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Employment Agreements

Quanta has entered into various employment agreements with
certain executives which provide for compensation and certain
other benefits and for severance payments under certain
circumstances. In addition, certain employment agreements
contain clauses which become effective upon a change of control
of Quanta. Upon the occurrence of any of the defined events in
the various employment agreements, Quanta will pay certain
amounts to the employee, which vary with the level of the
employee’s responsibility.

Other

Quanta has indemnified various parties against specified
liabilities that those parties might incur in the future in
connection with companies previously acquired or disposed of by
Quanta. These indemnities usually are contingent upon the other
party incurring liabilities that reach specified thresholds. As
of December 31, 2004, Quanta is not aware of circumstances
that would lead to future indemnity claims against it for
material amounts in connection with these transactions.

As of December 31, 2004, Quanta has agreed to issue up to
$17.5 million in additional letters of credit during 2005
relating to Quanta’s casualty insurance programs.

12.

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED):

The table below sets forth the unaudited consolidated operating
results by quarter for the years ended December 31, 2003
and 2004 (in thousands, except per share information).

The sum of the individual quarterly earnings per share amounts
may not agree with year-to-date earnings per share as each
period’s computation is based on the weighted average
number of shares outstanding during the period.

13.

SEGMENT INFORMATION:

Quanta has aggregated each of its individual operating units
into one reportable segment as a specialty contractor. Quanta
provides comprehensive network solutions to the electric power,
gas, telecommunications and cable television industries,
including designing, installing, repairing and maintaining
network infrastructure. In addition, Quanta provides ancillary
services such as inside electrical wiring, intelligent traffic
networks, cable and control systems for light rail lines,
airports and highways, and specialty rock trenching, directional
boring and road milling for industrial and commercial customers.
Each of these services is provided



QUANTA SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued)

by various Quanta subsidiaries and discrete financial
information is not provided to management at the service level.
The following table presents information regarding revenues
derived from the industries noted above. Certain
reclassifications have been made to the prior periods in order
to conform to the current period presentation.

Years Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Electric power and gas network services

$

971,646

$

979,140

$

1,052,352

Telecommunications and cable television network services

490,200

359,785

273,254

Ancillary services

288,867

303,928

300,904

$

1,750,713

$

1,642,853

$

1,626,510

Quanta does not have significant operations or long-lived assets
in countries outside of the United States. We derived
$8.5 million, $15.1 million and $22.8 million of
our revenues from foreign operations during 2002, 2003 and 2004.

14.

SUBSEQUENT EVENT:

On March 14, 2005, Quanta entered into a continuing
indemnity and security agreement with its surety. Under this
agreement Quanta has posted a letter of credit in the amount of
$10.0 million in favor of the surety and, pursuant to the
consent of the lenders under Quanta’s credit facility,
Quanta has also granted security interests in certain of its
assets to fully collateralize its obligations to the surety.
Quanta currently believes it will not have to fund any claims
arising from bonds issued under this agreement in the
foreseeable future.



ITEM 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure

There have been no changes in or disagreements with accountants
on accounting and financial disclosure within the meaning of
Item 304(b) of Regulation S-K.

ITEM 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management evaluated, with the participation of our Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as of
December 31, 2004. Based on their evaluation, our Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of December 31, 2004.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management’s report on internal control over financial
reporting can be found in Item 8 of this report. The
independent registered public accounting firm’s attestation
report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of
our internal control over financial reporting can also be found
in Item 8 of this report.

There has been no change in our internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the quarter ended
December 31, 2004, that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.

Other
Information

There is no information required to be disclosed in a report on
Form 8-K during the fourth quarter of the year covered by
this report that was not reported, whether or not otherwise
required by this Form 10-K.

PART III

ITEM 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information regarding officers and directors of Quanta required
by Items 401(a)-(f) of Regulation S-K is incorporated
by reference to the information set forth in Quanta’s
Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. Information regarding compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act and Quanta’s
adoption of a code of ethics required by Items 405 and 406
of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference to the
information set forth in Quanta’s Definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Quanta has a separately-designated standing Audit Committee
established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the
Exchange Act. As of the date of this report, the members of the
Audit Committee were James R. Ball, Bernard Fried, and Louis C.
Golm. Mr. Ball is Chairman of the Audit Committee. The
Company’s Board of Directors has determined that
Mr. Fried and is an “audit committee financial
expert,” as that term is defined in Item 401(h)(2) of
Regulation S-K, and “independent,” as that term
is defined in the NYSE corporate governance listing standards.

ITEM 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by this item is incorporated by
reference to “Executive Compensation and Other
Matters” set forth in our Definitive Proxy Statement for
the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.



ITEM 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item is incorporated by
reference to “Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management” and “Equity Compensation Plan
Information” set forth in our Definitive Proxy Statement
for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by this item is incorporated by
reference to “Transactions Involving Certain Officers,
Directors and Stockholders” set forth in our Definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this item is incorporated by
reference to “Audit Fees” set forth in our Definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

PART IV

ITEM 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

The following financial statements, schedules and exhibits are
filed as part of this Report

(1)

Financial Statements.

Reference is made to the
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 37 of
this Report.

(2) All schedules are omitted because they are not
applicable or the required information is shown in the financial
statements or the notes to the financial statements.

(3)

Exhibits







*

Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Quanta Services, Inc. has duly
caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Houston,
State of Texas, on March 16, 2005.

QUANTA SERVICES, INC.

By:

/s/ JOHN R. COLSON

John R. Colson

Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this Report has been signed by the following persons in
the capacities indicated on March 16, 2005.



EXHIBIT INDEX



*

Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements