Item 1.Business



General



As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to Boston Properties, Inc., a
Delaware corporation organized in 1997, individually or together with its subsidiaries, including Boston Properties Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, and our predecessors. We are a fully integrated, self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or “REIT,” and one of the largest owners and developers of office properties in the United States.



Our properties are concentrated in four markets—Boston, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC. For information concerning the
operations of our segments see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiary, Boston Properties Limited Partnership. At December 31, 2014, we owned or had interests in 169
properties, totaling approximately 45.8 million net rentable square feet, including ten properties under construction totaling approximately 3.3 million net rentable square feet. In addition, we had structured parking for approximately
43,824 vehicles containing approximately 15.0 million square feet. Our properties consisted of:



•160 office properties, including 129 Class A office properties (including nine properties under construction) and 31 Office/Technical properties;



•one hotel;



•five retail properties (including one property under construction); and



•three residential properties.



We own or control undeveloped land totaling approximately 490.8 acres, which could support approximately 12.8 million square feet of
additional development.



We consider Class A
office properties to be centrally-located buildings that are professionally managed and maintained, attract high-quality tenants and command upper-tier rental rates, and that are modern structures or have been modernized to compete with newer
buildings. We consider Office/Technical properties to be properties that support office, research and development, laboratory and other technical uses. Our definitions of Class A office and Office/Technical properties may be different than
those used by other companies.



We are a
full-service real estate company, with substantial in-house expertise and resources in acquisitions, development, financing, capital markets, construction management, property management, marketing, leasing, accounting, risk management, tax and
legal services. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 750 employees. Our thirty-one senior officers have an average of thirty years experience in the real estate industry, including an average of eighteen years of experience with
us. Our principal executive office and Boston regional office are located at The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199 and our telephone number is (617) 236-3300. In addition, we have regional offices
at 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022; Four Embarcadero Center, San Francisco, California 94111 and 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037.



Our Web site is located at http://www.bostonproperties.com.
On our Web site, you can obtain a free copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may also obtain our reports by accessing the EDGAR
database at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, or we will furnish an electronic or paper copy of these







reports free of charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, Boston Properties, Inc., The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199. The name
“Boston Properties” and our logo (consisting of a stylized “b”) are registered service marks of Boston Properties Limited Partnership.



Boston Properties Limited Partnership



Boston Properties Limited Partnership, or BPLP or our Operating Partnership, is a Delaware limited partnership, and
the entity through which we conduct substantially all of our business and own, either directly or through subsidiaries, substantially all of our assets. We are the sole general partner and, as of February 23, 2015, the owner of approximately
89.3% of the economic interests in BPLP. Economic interest was calculated as the number of common partnership units of BPLP owned by the Company as a percentage of the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership
units of BPLP, (2) the number of common units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of BPLP, or LTIP Units, other than LTIP Units issued in the form of Multi-Year Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards
(“MYLTIP Awards”), assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP Units and (3) the 2012 Outperformance Awards that were issued in the form of LTIP Units and earned as of February 6, 2015. Refer to Note 20
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. An LTIP Unit is generally the economic equivalent of a share of our restricted common stock, although LTIP Units issued in the form of MYLTIP Awards are only entitled to receive one-tenth (1/10

th



Preferred units of BPLP have the rights, preferences and other privileges as are set forth in an amendment to
the limited partnership agreement of BPLP. As of December 31, 2014 and February 23, 2015, BPLP had two series of Preferred Units outstanding consisting of 12,667 Series Four Preferred Units and 80,000 Series B Preferred Units.



The Series Four Preferred Units have a liquidation preference
of $50.00 per unit (or an aggregate of approximately $0.6 million at December 31, 2014 and February 23, 2015). The Series Four Preferred Units, which bear a preferred distribution equal to 2.00% per annum on a liquidation preference
of $50.00 per unit, are not convertible into or exchangeable for any common equity of BPLP or us. In order to secure the performance of certain obligations by the holders, such Series Four Preferred Units are subject to forfeiture pursuant to the
terms of a pledge agreement. The holders of Series Four Preferred Units have the right, at certain times and subject to certain conditions set forth in the Certificate of Designations establishing the rights, limitations and preferences of the
Series Four Preferred Units, to require our Operating Partnership to redeem all of their units for cash at the redemption price of $50.00 per unit. Our Operating Partnership also has the right, at certain times







and subject to certain conditions, to redeem all of the Series Four Preferred Units for cash at the redemption price of $50.00 per unit. The Series Four Preferred Units that are subject to the
security interest under the pledge agreement may not be redeemed until and unless such security interest is released. Due to the holders’ redemption option existing outside our control, the Series Four Preferred Units are presented outside of
permanent equity in our Consolidated Balance Sheets (See Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements).



The Series B Preferred Units have a liquidation preference of $2,500.00 per share (or an aggregate of approximately $193.6 million at
December 31, 2014 and February 23, 2015, after deducting the underwriting discount and transaction expenses). The Series B Preferred Units were issued by our Operating Partnership on March 27, 2013 in connection with our issuance of
80,000 shares (8,000,000 depositary shares each representing 1/100th of a share) of 5.25% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”). We contributed the net proceeds from the offering to our Operating
Partnership in exchange for Series B Preferred Units having terms and preferences generally mirroring those of the Series B Preferred Stock. We will pay cumulative cash dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock at a rate of 5.25% per annum of
the $2,500.00 liquidation preference per share. We may not redeem the Series B Preferred Stock prior to March 27, 2018, except in certain circumstances relating to the preservation of our REIT status. On or after March 27, 2018, at our
option, we may redeem the Series B Preferred Stock for a cash redemption price of $2,500.00 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. The Series B Preferred Stock is not redeemable by the holders, has no maturity date and is not convertible
into any other security of the Company or its affiliates.



Transactions During 2014



Acquisitions and Option Agreements



On November 6, 2014, we entered into an option agreement pursuant to which we have been granted an option to purchase real property
located at 425 Fourth Street in San Francisco, California. In connection with the execution of the agreement, we paid a non-refundable option payment to the current owner of $1.0 million. We intend to pursue the entitlements necessary to develop the
property. The purchase price has not been determined and is dependent on the entitlements obtained. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the desired entitlements or that we will ultimately determine to exercise the
option.



On November 12, 2014, we completed
the acquisition of a parcel of land at 804 Carnegie Center in Princeton, New Jersey for a purchase price of approximately $3.7 million. 804 Carnegie Center is a build-to-suit project with approximately 130,000 net rentable square feet of
Class A office space which is currently under construction. We expect that the building will be complete and available for occupancy during the first quarter of 2016.



Dispositions



On July 29, 2014, we completed the sale of our Mountain
View Technology Park properties and Mountain View Research Park Building Sixteen property located in Mountain View, California for an aggregate sale price of approximately $92.1 million. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $90.6 million,
resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $35.9 million. Mountain View Technology Park is a seven-building complex of Office/Technical properties aggregating approximately 135,000 net rentable square feet. Mountain View
Research Park Building Sixteen is an Office/Technical property with approximately 63,000 net rentable square feet.



On August 20, 2014, a portion of the land parcel at our One Reston Overlook property located in Reston, Virginia was taken by eminent
domain. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $2.6 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $1.2 million.



On August 22, 2014, we completed the sale of a parcel of land within our Broad Run Business Park property located in Loudoun County,
Virginia for a sale price of approximately $9.8 million. Net cash proceeds totaled







approximately $9.7 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $4.3 million. The parcel is an approximately 15.5 acre land parcel subject to a ground lease that was
scheduled to expire on October 31, 2048 with a tenant that exercised its purchase option under the ground lease.



On October 2, 2014, we completed the sale of Patriots Park located in Reston, Virginia for a gross sale price of $321.0 million.
Patriots Park consists of three Class A office properties aggregating approximately 706,000 net rentable square feet. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $319.1 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately
$84.6 million. We have agreed to provide rent support payments to the buyer with a maximum obligation of up to approximately $12.3 million related to the leasing of 17,762 net rentable square feet at the properties, which has been recorded as a
reduction to the gain on sale.



On October 22,
2014, MIT exercised its right to purchase our 415 Main Street property (formerly Seven Cambridge Center) located in Cambridge, Massachusetts on February 1, 2016. As part of its lease signed on July 14, 2004, MIT was granted an option to
purchase the building at the beginning of the 11th lease year for approximately $106 million. 415 Main Street is an Office/Technical property with approximately 231,000 net rentable square feet occupied by the Broad Institute. The sale is
subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and there can be no assurance that the sale will be consummated on the terms currently contemplated or at all.



On October 24, 2014, we completed the sale of a parcel
of land at 130 Third Avenue in Waltham, Massachusetts that is permitted for 129,000 square feet for a sale price of approximately $14.3 million. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $13.6 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate
totaling approximately $8.3 million.



59-story



On December 30, 2014, we completed the conveyance to an unrelated third party of a condominium interest in our 75 Ames Street
property located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. On May 23, 2011, we had entered into a ground lease for the vacant land parcel at 75 Ames Street and had also entered into a development agreement to serve as project manager for a 250,000 square
foot research laboratory building to be developed on the site at the ground lessee’s expense and to also serve, upon completion of development, as property manager. Gross proceeds to us were approximately $56.8 million, including $11.4 million
in development fees for our services,







and were received beginning in May 2011. The cash received under the ground lease was initially recognized as unearned revenue and recognized over the 99-year term of the ground lease as ground
lease revenue totaling approximately $459,000 per year prior to the conveyance of the condominium interest. The terms of the ground lease required us to form a condominium for the site upon completion of the development, at which time each party
would subject their respective interests in the buildings and land to the condominium and would in turn be conveyed a condominium unit comprised of their respective building as well as an undivided ownership interest in the land. As a result of the
conveyance and the transfer of title, we recognized a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $33.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2014.



Developments



As of December 31, 2014, we had ten properties under
construction comprised of nine office properties and one retail property, which aggregate approximately 3.3 million square feet. We estimate the total investment to complete these projects, in the aggregate, is approximately $2.1 billion of
which we had already invested approximately $0.9 billion as of December 31, 2014. The investment through December 31, 2014 and estimated total investment for our properties under construction as of December 31, 2014 are detailed below
(in thousands):



Construction PropertiesEstimatedStabilization DateLocationInvestmentto Date(1)Estimated 
TotalInvestment(1)Percentageleased(2)Annapolis Junction Building Seven (50% ownership)(3)Third Quarter, 2015Annapolis, MD$14,588$17,500100%690 Folsom StreetFourth Quarter, 2015San Francisco, CA13,27117,90058%Prudential Retail ExpansionFourth Quarter, 2015Boston, MA33610,330—%804 Carnegie CenterFirst Quarter, 2016Princeton, NJ11,17845,500100%Annapolis Junction Building Eight (50% ownership)(3)First Quarter, 2016Annapolis, MD11,65118,500—%99 Third Avenue RetailSecond Quarter, 2016Waltham, MA10,50816,90084%535 Mission StreetThird Quarter, 2016San Francisco, CA176,792215,00066%10 CityPointSecond Quarter, 2017Waltham, MA24,713100,40074%601 Massachusetts AvenueFourth Quarter, 2017Washington, DC228,910360,76083%888 Boylston StreetFourth Quarter, 2017Boston, MA35,932271,50036%Salesforce Tower (95% ownership)First Quarter, 2019San Francisco, CA348,9241,073,50051%Total Properties under Construction$876,803$2,147,79059%



(1)Represents our share. Includes net revenue during lease up period and approximately $67.4 million of construction cost and leasing commission accruals.

(2)Represents percentage leased as of February 23, 2015, including leases with future commencement dates.

(3)This development project has a construction loan.



On February 10, 2014, we completed and fully placed in-service The Avant at Reston Town Center development project comprised of 359
apartment units and retail space aggregating approximately 355,000 square feet located in Reston, Virginia. As of February 23, 2015, including leases with future commencement dates, this property was approximately 84% leased.



On April 1, 2014, we commenced construction of our 99
Third Avenue development project totaling approximately 17,000 net rentable square feet of retail space located in Waltham, Massachusetts.



On April 3, 2014, we commenced construction of our 690 Folsom Street development project totaling approximately 25,000 net rentable
square feet of office and retail space located in San Francisco, California. This project was partially placed in-service on December 2, 2014.







On April 10, 2014, a consolidated joint venture in which we have a 95% interest signed
a lease with salesforce.com for 714,000 square feet at the new Salesforce Tower, the 1.4 million square foot, 61-story Class A office development project currently under construction at 415 Mission Street in the South Financial District of
San Francisco, California. In conjunction with the lease signing, we commenced construction of the building.



On May 20, 2014, we commenced construction of our 888 Boylston Street development project totaling approximately 425,000 net rentable
square feet of Class A office space located in Boston, Massachusetts.



On May 20, 2014, we commenced construction of our 10 CityPoint development project totaling approximately 245,000 net rentable square feet of Class A office space located in Waltham,
Massachusetts.



On August 31, 2014, we
completed and fully placed in-service 250 West 55th Street, a Class A office project with approximately 988,000 net rentable square feet located in New York City. As of February 23, 2015, including leases with future commencement dates,
this property was 79% leased.



On
September 17, 2014, we completed and fully placed in-service 680 Folsom Street, a Class A office project with approximately 525,000 net rentable square feet located in San Francisco, California. As of February 23, 2015, including
leases with future commencement dates, the property was 98% leased.



On November 1, 2014, we partially placed in-service 535 Mission Street, a Class A office project with approximately 307,000 net rentable square feet located in San Francisco, California.



Secured Debt Transactions



On July 1, 2014, we used available cash to repay the
mortgage loan collateralized by our New Dominion Technology Park Building Two property located in Herndon, Virginia totaling $63.0 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 5.55% per annum and was scheduled to mature on
October 1, 2014. There was no prepayment penalty.



Unsecured Senior Notes



On December 15, 2014, our Operating Partnership used available cash to redeem $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5.625% senior notes due 2015 (the “5.625% Notes”) and
$250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5.000% senior notes due 2015 (the “5.000% Notes”). The redemption price for the 5.625% Notes was determined in accordance with the applicable indenture and totaled approximately
$308.0 million. The redemption price included approximately $2.8 million of accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date. Excluding such accrued and unpaid interest, the redemption price was approximately 101.73% of
the principal amount being redeemed. The redemption price for the 5.000% Notes was determined in accordance with the applicable indenture and totaled approximately $255.8 million. The redemption price included approximately $0.5 million of accrued
and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date. Excluding such accrued and unpaid interest, the redemption price was approximately 102.13% of the principal amount being redeemed. We recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt
totaling approximately $10.6 million, which amount included the payment of the redemption premium totaling approximately $10.5 million.



Unsecured Exchangeable Senior Notes



On February 18, 2014, our Operating Partnership repaid at maturity the $747.5 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.625%
exchangeable senior notes due 2014 plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon.







Equity Transactions



On May 19, 2014, our Operating Partnership released to the holders 319,687 Series Four Preferred Units
that were previously subject to a security interest under a pledge agreement. On July 3, 2014, our Operating Partnership redeemed such units for cash totaling approximately $16.0 million, plus accrued and unpaid distributions.



On October 16, 2014, our Operating Partnership released
to the holders 27,773 Series Four Preferred Units that were previously subject to a security interest under a pledge agreement. On November 5, 2014, our Operating Partnership redeemed 27,773 Series Four Preferred Units for cash totaling
approximately $1.4 million. An aggregate of 12,667 Series Four Preferred Units remain outstanding and subject to a security interest under a pledge agreement.



During the year ended December 31, 2014, we acquired an
aggregate of 80,246 common units of limited partnership interest, including 67,857 common units issued upon the conversion of LTIP units presented by the holders for redemption, in exchange for an equal number of shares of common stock. During the
year ended December 31, 2014, we issued 21,459 shares of common stock as a result of stock options being exercised.



Special Dividend



On December 8, 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $4.50 per common share payable
on January 28, 2015 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 31, 2014. The decision to declare a special dividend was primarily a result of the taxable gains associated with the sale of approximately $2.3 billion
of assets during 2014 partially offset by our election to deduct costs that were capitalized in prior years that may now be deducted under the new Tangible Property Regulations. The Board of Directors did not make any change in our policy with
respect to regular quarterly dividends. Holders of common units of limited partnership interest in our Operating Partnership, as of the close of business on December 31, 2014, received the same distribution on January 28, 2015.



Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures



On April 10, 2014, we entered into a
joint venture with an unrelated third party to acquire a parcel of land located at 1001 6th Street (formerly 501 K Street) in Washington, DC. We anticipate the land parcel may accommodate an approximate 520,000 square foot Class A office
property to be developed in the future. The joint venture partner contributed the land for a 50% interest in the joint venture and we initially contributed cash of approximately $39.0 million for our 50% interest. Under the joint venture agreement,
the partner will be entitled to up to two additional payments from the venture based on increases in total square footage of the project above 520,000 square feet and achieving certain project returns at stabilization.



On April 30, 2014, our partner in our Annapolis Junction
joint venture contributed a parcel of land and improvements and we contributed cash of approximately $5.4 million to the joint venture. We have a 50% interest in this joint venture. The joint venture has commenced construction of Annapolis Junction
Building Eight, which when completed will consist of a Class A office property with approximately 125,000 net rentable square feet located in Annapolis, Maryland. In addition, on June 23, 2014, the joint venture obtained construction
financing collateralized by the development project totaling $26.0 million. The construction financing bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.50% per annum and matures on June 23, 2017, with two, one-year extension
options, subject to certain conditions.



On
October 24, 2014, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest extended the loan collateralized by its Annapolis Junction Building Six property. At the time of the extension, the outstanding balance of the construction loan totaled
approximately $13.9 million and bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.65% per annum and was scheduled to mature on November 17, 2014. The extended loan has a total







commitment amount of $16.4 million, bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.25% per annum and matures on November 17, 2015. Annapolis Junction Building Six is a
Class A office property with approximately 119,000 net rentable square feet located in Annapolis, Maryland.



On December 17, 2014, a joint venture in which we have a 25% nominal ownership interest refinanced with a new lender its mortgage
loan collateralized by 901 New York Avenue located in Washington, DC. The mortgage loan totaling approximately $150.4 million bore interest at a fixed rate of 5.19% per annum and was scheduled to mature on January 1, 2015. The new mortgage
loan totaling $225.0 million bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.61% per annum and matures on January 5, 2025.



On December 19, 2014, we entered into a joint venture with an unrelated third party to acquire the air rights for the future
development of the first phase at North Station, consisting of an atrium hall and podium building containing up to 377,000 net rentable square feet of retail and office space located in Boston, Massachusetts. The joint venture partner contributed
air rights parcels and improvements, with a fair value of approximately $13.0 million, for its initial 50% interest in the joint venture. We contributed improvements totaling approximately $4.2 million and will contribute cash totaling
approximately $8.8 million for our initial 50% interest. In addition, we entered into an option and development rights agreement with our partner pursuant to which we have the right to develop residential, hotel and office space in future
phases, subject to certain terms and conditions including the partner’s right to participate as a venture partner in each phase of the project.



Stock Option and Incentive Plan



On January 27, 2014, our Compensation Committee approved a new equity-based, multi-year, long-term incentive program (the “2014
MYLTIP”) in lieu of an Outperformance Plan (“OPP”) as a performance-based component of our overall compensation program. Under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718
“Compensation—Stock Compensation,” the 2014 MYLTIP has an aggregate grant fair value of approximately $12.7 million, which amount will generally be amortized into earnings over the four-year plan period under the graded vesting method
(See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).



On January 31, 2014, we issued 21,455 shares of restricted common stock and our Operating Partnership issued 109,718 LTIP units under the 2012 Plan to certain of our employees.



On January 31, 2014, the measurement period for our 2011
OPP Awards expired and our total return to stockholders (“TRS”) performance was not sufficient for employees to earn and therefore become eligible to vest in any of the 2011 OPP Awards. As a result, we accelerated the then remaining
unrecognized compensation expense totaling approximately $1.2 million. Accordingly, all 2011 OPP Awards were automatically forfeited and our Operating Partnership repaid employees an amount equal to $0.25 (which is equal to what they paid upon
acceptance of the award) multiplied by the number of 2011 OPP Awards they received.



Business and Growth Strategies



Business Strategies



Our primary business objective is to maximize return on investment so as to provide our investors with the greatest possible total return in all points of the economic cycle. Our strategies to achieve
this objective are:



•to target a few carefully selected geographic markets, including Boston, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC, and to be one of the leading, if
not the leading, owners, developers and managers in each of those markets with a full-service office in each market providing property management, leasing, development, construction and legal expertise. We select markets and submarkets with a
diverse economic base and a deep pool of prospective tenants in various industries and where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities. We have explored and







may continue to explore for future investment select domestic and international markets that exhibit these same traits;



•to emphasize markets and submarkets within those markets where the lack of available sites and the difficulty of receiving the necessary approvals for
development and the necessary financing constitute high barriers to the creation of new supply, and where skill, financial strength and diligence are required to successfully develop, finance and manage high-quality office, research and development
space, as well as selected retail and residential space;



•to take on complex, technically challenging development projects, leveraging the skills of our management team to successfully develop, acquire or
reposition properties that other organizations may not have the capacity or resources to pursue;



•to own and develop high-quality real estate designed to meet the demands of today’s tenants who require sophisticated telecommunications and
related infrastructure, support services, sustainable features and amenities, and to manage those facilities so as to become the landlord of choice for both existing and prospective clients;



•to opportunistically acquire assets which increase our penetration in the markets in which we have chosen to concentrate, as well as potential new
markets, which exhibit an opportunity to improve or preserve returns through repositioning (through a combination of capital improvements and shift in marketing strategy), changes in management focus and leasing;



•to explore joint venture opportunities with existing property owners located in desirable locations, who seek to benefit from the depth of development
and management expertise we are able to provide and our access to capital, and/or to explore joint venture opportunities with strategic institutional partners, leveraging our skills as owners, operators and developers of Class A office space
and mixed-use complexes;



•to pursue on a selective basis the sale of properties or interests therein, including core properties, to either (1) take advantage of the demand
for our premier properties and realize the value we have created or (2) pare from our portfolio properties that we believe have slower future growth potential;



•to seek third-party development contracts, which can be a significant source of revenue and enable us to retain and utilize our existing development
and construction management staff, especially when our internal development is less active or when new development is less-warranted due to market conditions; and



•to enhance our capital structure through our access to a variety of sources of capital and proactively manage our debt expirations. In the current
economic climate with historically low interest rates we have and will continue to attempt to lower the cost of our debt capital and seek opportunities to lock in such low rates through early debt repayment, refinancings and interest rate hedges.



Growth Strategies



External Growth Strategies



We believe that our development experience and our
organizational depth position us to continue to selectively develop a range of property types, including high-rise urban developments, mixed-use developments (including residential and retail), low-rise suburban office properties and research and
laboratory space, within budget and on schedule. We believe we are also well positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:



•our control of sites (including sites under contract or option to acquire) in our markets that could support approximately 12.8 million additional
square feet of new office, retail, and residential development;



•our reputation gained through 45 years of successful operations and the stability and strength of our existing portfolio of properties;







•our relationships with leading national corporations, universities and public institutions, including government agencies, seeking new facilities and
development services;



•our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the real estate industry;



•our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions efficiently provide comfort to domestic and foreign institutions, private investors and
corporations who seek to sell commercial real estate in our market areas;



•our ability to act quickly on due diligence and financing;



•our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality real estate assets and



•our ability to procure entitlements from multiple municipalities to develop sites and attract land owners to sell or partner with us.



Opportunities to execute our
external growth strategy fall into three categories:



•Development in selected submarkets.We believe the additional development of well-positioned office buildings and mixed use complexes could be
justified in many of our submarkets. We believe in acquiring land after taking into consideration timing factors relating to economic cycles and in response to market conditions that allow for its development at the appropriate time. While we
purposely concentrate in markets with high barriers-to-entry, we have demonstrated throughout our 45-year history, an ability to make carefully timed land acquisitions in submarkets where we can become one of the market leaders in establishing rent
and other business terms. We believe that there are opportunities at key locations in our existing and other markets for a well-capitalized developer to acquire land with development potential.



In the past, we have been particularly successful at
acquiring sites or options to purchase sites that need governmental approvals for development. Because of our development expertise, knowledge of the governmental approval process and reputation for quality development with local government
regulatory bodies, we generally have been able to secure the permits necessary to allow development and to profit from the resulting increase in land value. We seek complex projects where we can add value through the efforts of our experienced and
skilled management team leading to attractive returns on investment.



Our strong regional relationships and recognized development expertise have enabled us to capitalize on unique build-to-suit opportunities. We intend to seek and expect to continue to be presented with
such opportunities in the near term allowing us to earn relatively significant returns on these development opportunities through multiple business cycles.



•Acquisition of assets and portfolios of assets from institutions or individuals.We believe that due to our size, management strength and
reputation, we are well positioned to acquire portfolios of assets or individual properties from institutions or individuals if valuations meet our criteria. In addition, we believe that our market knowledge and our liquidity and access to capital
may provide us with a competitive advantage when pursuing acquisitions. There may be enhanced opportunities to purchase assets with near-term financing maturities or possibly provide debt on assets at enhanced yields. Opportunities to acquire
properties may also come through the purchase of first mortgage or mezzanine debt. We may also acquire properties for cash, but we are also particularly well-positioned to appeal to sellers wishing to contribute on a tax-deferred basis their
ownership of property for equity in a diversified real estate operating company that offers liquidity through access to the public equity markets in addition to a quarterly distribution. Our ability to offer common and preferred units of limited
partnership in BPLP to sellers who would otherwise recognize a taxable gain upon a sale of assets or our common stock may facilitate this type of transaction on a tax-efficient basis. In addition, we may consider mergers with and acquisitions of
compatible real estate firms.







•Acquisition of underperforming assets and portfolios of assets. We believe that because of our in-depth market knowledge and development
experience in each of our markets, our national reputation with brokers, financial institutions and others involved in the real estate market and our access to competitively-priced capital, we are well-positioned to identify and acquire existing,
underperforming properties for competitive prices and to add significant additional value to such properties through our effective marketing strategies, repositioning/redevelopment expertise and a responsive property management program. We have
developed this strategy and program for our existing portfolio, where we provide high-quality property management services using our own employees in order to encourage tenants to renew, expand and relocate in our properties. We are able to achieve
speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house and third-party vendors’ services for marketing, including calls and presentations to prospective tenants, print advertisements, lease negotiation
and construction of tenant improvements. Our tenants benefit from cost efficiencies produced by our experienced work force, which is attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management.



Internal Growth Strategies



We believe that opportunities will exist to increase cash
flow from our existing properties because they are of high quality and in desirable locations within markets where, in general, the creation of new supply is limited by the lack of available sites and the difficulty of obtaining the necessary
approvals for development on vacant land and financing. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is three-fold: (1) to provide high-quality property management services using our employees in order to encourage tenants
to renew, expand and relocate in our properties, (2) to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house services for marketing, lease negotiation and construction of tenant improvements
and (3) to work with new or existing tenants with space expansion or contraction needs maximizing the cash flow from our assets. We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:



•Cultivate existing submarkets and long-term relationships with credit tenants.In choosing locations for our properties, we have paid particular
attention to transportation and commuting patterns, physical environment, adjacency to established business centers, proximity to sources of business growth and other local factors.



The average lease term of our in-place leases, including
unconsolidated joint ventures, was approximately 6.8 years at December 31, 2014 and we continue to cultivate long-term leasing relationships with a diverse base of high-quality, financially stable tenants. Based on leases in place at
December 31, 2014, leases with respect to approximately 6.0% of the total square feet in our portfolio, including unconsolidated joint ventures, will expire in calendar year 2015.



•Directly manage our office properties to maximize the potential for tenant retention.We provide property management services ourselves, rather
than contracting for this service, to maintain awareness of and responsiveness to tenant needs. We and our properties also benefit from cost efficiencies produced by an experienced work force attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management
and from our continuing programs to assure that our property management personnel at all levels remain aware of their important role in tenant relations.



•Replace tenants quickly at best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract
new tenants and achieve relatively high rental rates as a result of our well-located, well-designed and well-maintained properties, our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer expansion
and relocation alternatives within our submarkets.



•Extend terms of existing leases to existing tenants prior to expiration. We have also successfully structured early tenant renewals, which have
reduced the cost associated with lease downtime while securing the tenancy of our highest quality credit-worthy tenants on a long-term basis and enhancing relationships.







Policies with Respect to Certain Activities



The discussion below sets forth certain additional information regarding our investment, financing and other
policies. These policies have been determined by our Board of Directors and, in general, may be amended or revised from time to time by our Board of Directors.



Investment Policies



Investments in Real Estate or Interests in Real Estate



Our investment objectives are to provide quarterly cash
dividends to our securityholders and to achieve long-term capital appreciation through increases in the value of Boston Properties, Inc. We have not established a specific policy regarding the relative priority of these investment objectives.



We expect to continue to pursue our investment
objectives primarily through the ownership of our current properties, development projects and other acquired properties. We currently intend to continue to invest primarily in developments of properties and acquisitions of existing improved
properties or properties in need of redevelopment, and acquisitions of land that we believe have development potential, primarily in our existing markets of Boston, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC. We have explored and may continue to
explore for future investment select domestic and international markets that exhibit these same traits. Future investment or development activities will not be limited to a specified percentage of our assets. We intend to engage in such future
investment or development activities in a manner that is consistent with the maintenance of our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In addition, we may purchase or lease income-producing commercial and other types of properties for
long-term investment, expand and improve the real estate presently owned or other properties purchased, or sell such real estate properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances warrant. We do not have a policy that restricts the amount or
percentage of assets that will be invested in any specific property, however, our investments may be restricted by our debt covenants.



We may also continue to participate with third parties in property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership,
including third parties with expertise in mixed-use opportunities. These investments may permit us to own interests in larger assets without unduly restricting diversification and, therefore, add flexibility in structuring our portfolio.



Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage
financing and other indebtedness or such financing or indebtedness as may be incurred in connection with acquiring or refinancing these investments. Debt service on such financing or indebtedness will have a priority over any distributions with
respect to our common stock. Investments are also subject to our policy not to be treated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”).



Investments in Real Estate Mortgages



While our current portfolio consists primarily of, and our
business objectives emphasize, equity investments in commercial real estate, we may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, invest in mortgages and other types of real estate interests consistent with our qualification as a REIT. Investments
in real estate mortgages run the risk that one or more borrowers may default under such mortgages and that the collateral securing such mortgages may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup our full investment. We may invest in participating,
convertible or traditional mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the cash flow, or any appreciation in value of the property or as an entrance to the fee ownership.



Securities of or Interests in Entities Primarily Engaged
in Real Estate Activities



Subject to the
percentage of ownership limitations and gross income and asset tests necessary for our REIT qualification, we also may invest in securities of other REITs, other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers, including
for the purpose of exercising control over such entities.







Dispositions



Our decision to dispose or partially dispose of properties
is based upon the periodic review of our portfolio and the determination by the Board of Directors that such action would be in our best interests. Any decision to dispose of a property will be authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee
thereof. Some holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman, could incur adverse tax consequences upon the sale of certain of our properties that differ from the tax consequences to us. Consequently, holders of
limited partnership interests in BPLP may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any such sale. Such different tax treatment derives in most cases from the fact that we acquired these properties in exchange for
partnership interests in contribution transactions structured to allow the prior owners to defer taxable gain. Generally this deferral continues so long as we do not dispose of the properties in a taxable transaction. Unless a sale by us of these
properties is structured as a like-kind exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code or in a manner that otherwise allows deferral to continue, recognition of the deferred tax gain allocable to these prior owners is generally
triggered by a sale. Some of our assets are subject to tax protection agreements, which may limit our ability to dispose of the assets or require us to pay damages to the prior owners in the event of a taxable sale.



Financing Policies



The agreement of limited partnership of BPLP and our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur. We do not have a policy limiting the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. However, our mortgages, credit facilities and unsecured
debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. We have not established any limit on the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any single property or on our
portfolio as a whole.



Our Board of Directors will
consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and when making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, including the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of
our properties upon refinancing, the entering into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts and the ability of particular properties and BPLP as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected
debt service.



Policies with Respect to Other Activities



As the sole general partner of BPLP, we
have the authority to issue additional common and preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP. We have in the past, and may in the future, issue common or preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP to persons who contribute
their direct or indirect interests in properties to us in exchange for such common or preferred units of limited partnership interest in BPLP. We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of issuers other
than BPLP and we do not intend to do so. At all times, we intend to make investments in such a manner as to maintain our qualification as a REIT, unless because of circumstances or changes in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the
Treasury Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to qualify as a REIT. We may make loans to third parties, including, without limitation, to joint ventures in which we participate or in connection
with the disposition of a property. We intend to make investments in such a way that we will not be treated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Our policies with respect to these and other activities may be reviewed and modified or amended
from time to time by the Board of Directors.



Sustainability



As one of the largest owners and
developers of office properties in the United States, we actively work to promote our growth and operations in a sustainable and responsible manner across our four regions. We focus our sustainability initiatives on the design and construction of
our new developments, the operation of our existing buildings and our internal corporate practices. Our sustainability initiatives are centered on energy







efficiency, waste reduction and water preservation, as well as making a positive impact on the communities in which we conduct business. Through these efforts we demonstrate that operating and
developing commercial real estate can be conducted with a conscious regard for the environment while mutually benefiting our tenants, investors, employees and the communities in which we operate.



During 2014, we hired a Sustainability Manager whose sole
responsibility is to promote, monitor and disclose our sustainability activities. In addition, for the third straight year the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (“GRESB”) ranked us in the top quadrant of all companies responding
to its sustainability survey. For the 2014 GRESB report, we ranked 17th out of 637 companies surveyed and 2nd out of 32 office companies in GRESB’s United States office peer group. Also during 2014, we received from NAREIT the “2014
Special Recognition—Most Improved Leader in the Light Award” recognizing our sustainable energy use practices.



We provide disclosure on our website to increase the transparency of our sustainability program, which we periodically update with current
or additional information. You may access our sustainability report on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Sustainability.”



Competition



We compete in the leasing of office, retail and residential
space with a considerable number of other real estate companies, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us. In addition, our hotel property competes for guests with other hotels, some of which may have
greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us and to the manager of our one hotel, Marriott International, Inc.



Principal factors of competition in our primary business of owning, acquiring and developing office properties are the quality of
properties, leasing terms (including rent and other charges and allowances for tenant improvements), attractiveness and convenience of location, the quality and breadth of tenant services provided, and reputation as an owner and operator of quality
office properties in the relevant market. Additionally, our ability to compete depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, investment alternatives, financial condition and operating results of current and
prospective tenants, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, utilities, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.



In addition, although not part of our core strategy, we are
currently operating three residential properties (See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and may in the future decide to acquire or develop additional residential properties. As an owner and operator of apartments, we will also
face competition for prospective residents from other operators whose properties may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the
resident seeks. We will also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Because we have limited experience with residential properties, we expect to continue to retain third parties to manage our residential
properties.



Our Hotel Property



We operate our hotel property through a taxable REIT
subsidiary. The taxable REIT subsidiary, a wholly-owned subsidiary of BPLP, is the lessee pursuant to a lease for the hotel property. As lessor, BPLP is entitled to a percentage of gross receipts from the hotel property. The hotel lease allows
economic benefits of ownership to flow to us. Marriott International, Inc. continues to manage the hotel property under the Marriott name and under terms of the existing management agreements. Marriott has been engaged under a separate long-term
incentive management agreement to operate and manage the hotel on behalf of the taxable REIT subsidiary. In connection with these arrangements, Marriott has agreed to operate and maintain our hotel in accordance with its system-wide standard for
comparable hotels and to provide the hotel with the benefits of its central reservation system and other chain-wide programs and services. Under a management agreement for the hotel, Marriott acts as the taxable REIT subsidiary’s agent to
supervise, direct and control the management and operation of the hotel and







receives as compensation base management fees that are calculated as a percentage of the hotel’s gross revenues, and supplemental incentive fees if the hotel exceeds negotiated profitability
breakpoints. In addition, the taxable REIT subsidiary compensates Marriott, on the basis of a formula applied to the hotel’s gross revenues, for certain system-wide services provided by Marriott, including central reservations, marketing and
training. During 2014, 2013 and 2012, Marriott received an aggregate of approximately $1.0 million, $1.2 million and $2.0 million, respectively, from our taxable REIT subsidiary.



Seasonality



Our hotel property traditionally has experienced significant
seasonality in its operating income. Below is the net operating income and the percentage of net operating income by quarter for the year ended December 31, 2014.



First QuarterSecond QuarterThird QuarterFourth Quarter$1.4 million$5.0 million$4.3 million$3.4 million10%36%31%23%



Corporate Governance



Boston Properties is currently governed by an
eleven member Board of Directors. The current members of our Board of Directors are Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Carol B. Einiger, Dr. Jacob A. Frenkel, Joel I. Klein, Douglas T. Linde, Matthew J. Lustig, Alan J. Patricof, Ivan G.
Seidenberg, Owen D. Thomas, Martin Turchin and David A. Twardock. All directors stand for election for one-year terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders.



Our Board of Directors has Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. The
membership of each of these committees is described below.



Independent DirectorAuditCompensationNominatingandCorporateGovernanceCarol B. EinigerXDr. Jacob A. FrenkelXX*Joel I. KleinXXMatthew J. LustigAlan J. PatricofX*XIvan G. Seidenberg **Martin TurchinDavid A. TwardockXX*



X=Committee
member, *=Chair, **=Lead Independent Director



•Our Board of Directors has adopted charters for each of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. A copy of each of
these charters is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Committees and Charters.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com
under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Guidelines.”







•Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs business decisions made and actions taken by our directors,
officers and employees. A copy of this code is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Code of Conduct and Ethics.” We intend to disclose on this
website any amendment to, or waiver of, any provisions of this Code applicable to our directors and executive officers that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange.



•Our Board of Directors has established an ethics reporting system that employees may use to anonymously report possible violations of the Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, including concerns regarding questionable accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, by telephone or over the internet.



•Our Board of Directors has adopted a Policy on Company Political Spending, a copy of which is available on our website at
http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Policy on Political Spending.”







