Item 1.Business



General



As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to Boston Properties, Inc., a
Delaware corporation organized in 1997, individually or together with its subsidiaries, including Boston Properties Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, and our predecessors. We are a fully integrated, self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or “REIT,” and one of the largest owners and developers of office properties in the United States.



Our properties are concentrated in five markets—Boston, Washington, DC, midtown Manhattan, San Francisco and Princeton, NJ. We conduct
substantially all of our business through our subsidiary, Boston Properties Limited Partnership. At December 31, 2009, we owned or had interests in 146 properties, totaling approximately 37.7 million net rentable square feet and structured
parking for vehicles containing approximately 12.8 million square feet. Our properties consisted of:



•140 office properties including 120 Class A office properties (including three properties under construction) and 20 Office/Technical properties;



•one hotel;



•three retail properties; and



•two residential properties (both of which are under construction).



We own or control undeveloped land totaling approximately 510.1 acres, which will support approximately
12.7 million square feet of development. In addition, we have a noncontrolling interest in the Boston Properties Office Value-Added Fund, L.P., which we refer to as the “Value-Added Fund,” which is a strategic partnership with two
institutional investors through which we have pursued the acquisition of assets within our existing markets that have deficiencies in property characteristics which provide an opportunity to create value through repositioning, refurbishment or
renovation. Our investments through the Value-Added Fund are not included in our portfolio information tables or any other portfolio level statistics. At December 31, 2009, the Value-Added Fund had investments in an office complex in San
Carlos, California, an office property in Chelmsford, Massachusetts and office/technical properties in Mountain View, California.



We consider Class A office properties to be centrally-located buildings that are professionally managed and maintained, attract
high-quality tenants and command upper-tier rental rates, and that are modern structures or have been modernized to compete with newer buildings. We consider Office/Technical properties to be properties that support office, research and development,
laboratory and other technical uses. Our definitions of Class A office and Office/Technical properties may be different than those used by other companies.



We are a full-service real estate company, with substantial in-house expertise and resources in acquisitions,
development, financing, capital markets, construction management, property management, marketing, leasing, accounting, tax and legal services. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 700 employees. Our thirty-four senior officers have an
average of twenty-five years experience in the real estate industry including an average of fifteen years of experience with us. Our principal executive office and Boston regional office is located at The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street,
Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199 and our telephone number is (617) 236-3300. In addition, we have regional offices at 505 9thStreet, NW, Washington, D.C. 20004; 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022; Four Embarcadero Center, San
Francisco, California 94111; and 302 Carnegie Center, Princeton, New Jersey 08540.



Our Web site is located at http://www.bostonproperties.com. On our Web site, you can obtain a free copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments







to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The name “Boston Properties” and our logo (consisting of a stylized “b”) are registered service marks of Boston Properties Limited Partnership.



Boston Properties Limited Partnership



Boston Properties Limited Partnership, or
BPLP, is a Delaware limited partnership, and the entity through which we conduct substantially all of our business and own, either directly or through subsidiaries, substantially all of our assets. We are the sole general partner and, as of
February 19, 2010, the owner of approximately 85.8% of the economic interests in BPLP. Economic interest was calculated as the number of common partnership units of BPLP owned by the Company as a percentage of the sum of (1) the actual
aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of BPLP, (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of outstanding preferred partnership units of BPLP and (3) the number of common units issuable upon
conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of BPLP, or LTIP Units, other than LTIP Units issued in the form of 2008 Outperformance Awards (“2008 OPP Awards”), assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of
the LTIP Units. An LTIP Unit is generally the economic equivalent of a share of our restricted common stock, although LTIP Units issued in the form of 2008 OPP Awards are only entitled to receive one-tenth (1/10

th









1,007,662, which is one-sixth of the number of Series Two Preferred Units that were originally issued. No holder exercised its right to have its Series Two Preferred Units redeemed for cash as of
May 12, 2009. BPLP also has the right, under certain conditions and at certain times, to redeem Series Two Preferred Units for cash and to convert into OP Units any Series Two Preferred Units that are not redeemed when they are eligible for
redemption.



Transactions During 2009



Developments



On January 16, 2009, we acquired the development rights
for the site at 17 Cambridge Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts for approximately $11.4 million. On November 6, 2009, we acquired the land parcel at 17 Cambridge Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts for a gross purchase price of approximately
$6.0 million.



On
February 6, 2009, we announced that we were suspending construction on our 1,000,000 square foot office project at 250 West 55thStreet in New York City. During December 2009, we completed the construction of foundations and steel/deck to grade to
facilitate a restart of construction in the future and as a result ceased interest capitalization on the project. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized a loss of approximately $27.8 million related to the suspension of
development, which amount included a $20.0 million contractual amount due pursuant to a lease agreement. On January 19, 2010, we paid $12.8 million related to the termination of such lease. As a result, we will recognize approximately $7.2
million of other income during the first quarter of 2010.



During the year ended December 31, 2009, we placed in-service the following development properties:



•On April 1, 2009, we placed in-service One Preserve Parkway, an approximately 183,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property
located in Rockville, Maryland. The property is 65% leased.



•On May 31, 2009, a consolidated joint venture in which we have a 66.67% interest placed in-service the Offices at Wisconsin Place, an
approximately 299,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property located in Chevy Chase, Maryland. The property is 91% leased.



•On August 1, 2009, we placed in-service Democracy Tower, an approximately 235,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property located in
Reston, Virginia. The property is 100% leased.



•On October 9, 2009, we placed in-service 701 Carnegie Center, an approximately 120,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property
located in Princeton, New Jersey. The property is 100% leased.



As of December 31, 2009, we had three projects under construction comprised of three office properties and two residential properties, which aggregate an estimated total investment of approximately
$1.1 billion and approximately 2.0 million square feet. The investment through December 31, 2009 and estimated total investment for our properties under construction as of December 31, 2009 are detailed below (in thousands):



Properties Under ConstructionEstimatedStabilization DateLocationInvestmentthroughDecember 31,2009(1)Estimated TotalInvestment(2)Atlantic Wharf (formerly known as Russia Wharf)(3)First Quarter, 2012Boston, MA$384,298$600,0002200 Pennsylvania Avenue(3)Second Quarter, 2012Washington, DC88,925380,000Weston Corporate CenterThird Quarter, 2010Weston, MA98,602150,000Total$571,825$1,130,000



(1)Amounts include approximately $50.7 million of accruals.

(2)Includes net revenue during lease up period.

(3)Project is comprised of both an office and a residential component.







Secured Debt Transactions



On April 21, 2009, we obtained construction financing of
up to $215.0 million collateralized by our Atlantic Wharf development project located in Boston, Massachusetts. Atlantic Wharf, formerly known as Russia Wharf, is a mixed-use project with approximately 860,000 net rentable square feet (of which
70,000 square feet is residential). Wellington Management Company, LLP has leased approximately 450,000 square feet of the office space in the development. The construction financing bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus
3.00% per annum and matures on April 21, 2012 with two, one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions. There were no amounts drawn on the construction facility during 2009.



On June 9, 2009, we used available cash to repay the
mortgage loan collateralized by our Reservoir Place property located in Waltham, Massachusetts totaling approximately $47.8 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 7.00% per annum and was scheduled to mature on July 1,
2009. There was no prepayment penalty.



On
June 26, 2009, we used available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our Ten Cambridge Center property located in Cambridge, Massachusetts totaling approximately $30.1 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of
8.27% per annum and was scheduled to mature on May 1, 2010. We paid a prepayment penalty totaling $0.5 million.



On July 30, 2009, we obtained mortgage financing totaling $50.0 million collateralized by our Reservoir Place property located in
Waltham, Massachusetts. The mortgage financing currently bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 3.85% per annum and matures on July 30, 2014.



On August 3, 2009, we used available cash to repay the mortgage loans collateralized by our 1301 New York
Avenue property located in Washington, DC aggregating approximately $20.5 million. The mortgage loans bore interest at a weighted-average fixed rate of 6.91% per annum and were scheduled to mature on August 15, 2009. There were no
prepayment penalties.



Senior Notes Offering



On October 9, 2009, BPLP completed a
public offering of $700.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5.875% senior notes due 2019. The notes were priced at 99.931% of the principal amount to yield 5.967% to maturity. The aggregate net proceeds to BPLP, after deducting
underwriter discounts and offering expenses, were approximately $693.7 million. The notes mature on October 15, 2019, unless earlier redeemed by BPLP.



Equity Transactions



On June 10, 2009, we completed a public offering of 17,250,000 shares of our common stock (including 2,250,000 shares issued as a result
of the exercise of an overallotment option by the underwriters) at a price to the public of $50.00 per share. The proceeds from this public offering, net of underwriters’ discounts and offering costs, totaled approximately $841.9 million.



During the year ended December 31, 2009, we
acquired an aggregate of 138,856 common units of limited partnership interest, including 44,287 common units issued upon the conversion of LTIP units, presented by the holders for redemption, in exchange for an equal number of shares of common
stock. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we issued 242,507 shares of common stock as a result of stock options being exercised.



Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures



During June 2009, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $7.4 million, which represented the other-than-temporary
decline in the fair value below the carrying value of our investment in the Value-Added Fund.







During December 2009, our Value-Added Fund, an unconsolidated joint venture, recognized a
non-cash impairment charge related to its One and Two Circle Star Way properties in San Carlos, California totaling approximately $24.6 million, of which our share was approximately $4.2 million. In addition, we recognized a non-cash impairment
charge of approximately $2.0 million representing the other-than-temporary decline in the fair value below the remaining carrying value of our investment in the Value-Added Fund.



Noncontrolling Interest in Property Partnerships



On January 5, 2009, we repaid a $25.0 million loan in
connection with the agreement entered into in May 2006 to redeem the outside members’ equity interests in the limited liability company that owns 601 Lexington Avenue (formerly known as Citigroup Center).



Major Tenant Bankruptcies



On April 30, 2009, Lehman Brothers, Inc., which was then
our tenth largest tenant (by square feet) with approximately 437,000 net rentable square feet in our 399 Park Avenue property, rejected its lease in bankruptcy. We had previously established a reserve for the full amount of the Lehman Brothers, Inc.
accrued straight-line rent balance during the third quarter of 2008. Lehman Brothers, Inc. paid rent through the month of April 2009 for all of its space and continued to occupy approximately 180,000 net rentable square feet through June 22,
2009, for which we received an aggregate of approximately $19.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. As of June 23, 2009, Lehman Brothers, Inc. ceased to occupy or lease any space from us. Lehman Brothers, Inc. had contributed
approximately $44.9 million per year on a contractual basis to our revenues from this lease. As of December 31, 2009, we have signed leases with tenants for approximately 372,000 net rentable square feet of the vacated space.



On June 1, 2009, General Motors Corporation filed a
petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. At that time, we leased approximately 120,000 square feet of office space to General Motors Corporation at 601
Lexington Avenue (formerly known as Citigroup Center). Rent commencement for the lease at 601 Lexington Avenue began on June 1, 2009 and the lease was scheduled to expire on May 31, 2019. However, on June 12, 2009, General Motors
Corporation rejected the lease in bankruptcy effective as of June 30, 2009. The contribution from this lease, on a contractual basis, from July 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009, was projected to be approximately $6.6 million. As of
December 31, 2009, we have signed leases with tenants for approximately 90,000 net rentable square feet of the vacated space.



Business and Growth Strategies



Business Strategy



Our primary business objective is to maximize return on investment so as to provide our investors with the greatest possible total return.
Our strategy to achieve this objective is:



•to concentrate on a few carefully selected geographic markets, including Boston, Washington, DC, midtown Manhattan, San Francisco and Princeton, NJ,
and to be one of the leading, if not the leading, owners and developers in each of those markets. We select markets and submarkets where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities;



•to emphasize markets and submarkets within those markets where the lack of available sites and the difficulty of receiving the necessary approvals for
development and the necessary financing constitute high barriers to the creation of new supply, and where skill, financial strength and diligence are required to successfully develop, finance and manage high-quality office, research and development
space, as well as selected retail space;







•to take on complex, technically challenging projects, leveraging the skills of our management team to successfully develop, acquire or reposition
properties that other organizations may not have the capacity or resources to pursue;



•to concentrate on high-quality real estate designed to meet the demands of today’s tenants who require sophisticated telecommunications and
related infrastructure and support services, and to manage those facilities so as to become the landlord of choice for both existing and prospective clients;



•to opportunistically acquire assets which increase our penetration in the markets in which we have chosen to concentrate and which exhibit an
opportunity to improve or preserve returns through repositioning (through a combination of capital improvements and shift in marketing strategy), changes in management focus and re-leasing as existing leases terminate;



•to explore joint venture opportunities primarily with existing property owners located in desirable locations, who seek to benefit from the depth of
development and management expertise we are able to provide and our access to capital, and/or to explore joint venture opportunities with strategic institutional partners, leveraging our skills as owners, operators and developers of Class A
office space, as well as partners with expertise in mixed-use opportunities;



•to pursue on a selective basis the sale of properties, including core properties, to take advantage of our value creation and the demand for our
premier properties;



•to seek third-party development contracts, which can be a significant source of revenue and enable us to retain and utilize our existing development
and construction management staff, especially when our internal development is less active or when new development is less-warranted due to market conditions; and



•to enhance our capital structure through our access to a variety of sources of capital.



Growth Strategies



External Growth



We believe that our development experience and our
organizational depth position us to continue to selectively develop a range of property types, including low-rise suburban office properties, high-rise urban developments, mixed-use developments (including residential) and research and laboratory
space, within budget and on schedule. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:



•our control of sites (including sites under contract or option to acquire) in our markets that will support approximately 12.7 million square feet
of new office, retail, hotel and residential development;



•our reputation gained through 40 years of successful operations and the stability and strength of our existing portfolio of properties;



•our relationships with leading national corporations, universities and public institutions seeking new facilities and development services;



•our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the real estate industry;



•our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions efficiently provides comfort to domestic and foreign institutions, private investors and
corporations who seek to sell commercial real estate in our market areas;



•our ability to act quickly on due diligence and financing; and



•our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality real estate assets.







Opportunities to execute our external growth strategy fall into three categories:



•Development in selected submarkets.We believe the continued development of well-positioned office buildings will be justified in many of our
submarkets. We believe in acquiring land after taking into consideration timing factors relating to economic cycles and in response to market conditions that allow for its development at the appropriate time. While we purposely concentrate in
markets with high barriers-to-entry, we have demonstrated throughout our 40-year history, an ability to make carefully timed land acquisitions in submarkets where we can become one of the market leaders in establishing rent and other business terms.
We believe that there are opportunities at key locations in our existing and other markets for a well-capitalized developer to acquire land with development potential.



In the past, we have been particularly successful at acquiring sites or options to purchase sites that need
governmental approvals for development. Because of our development expertise, knowledge of the governmental approval process and reputation for quality development with local government regulatory bodies, we generally have been able to secure the
permits necessary to allow development and to profit from the resulting increase in land value. We seek complex projects where we can add value through the efforts of our experienced and skilled management team leading to attractive returns on
investment.



Our strong regional relationships
and recognized development expertise have enabled us to capitalize on unique build-to-suit opportunities. We intend to seek and expect to continue to be presented with such opportunities in the near term allowing us to earn relatively significant
returns on these development opportunities through multiple business cycles.





•



Acquisition of assets and portfolios of assets from institutions or individuals.



•Acquisition of underperforming assets and portfolios of assets. We believe that because of our in-depth market knowledge and development
experience in each of our markets, our national reputation with brokers, financial institutions and others involved in the real estate market and our access to competitively-priced capital, we are well-positioned to identify and acquire existing,
underperforming properties for competitive prices and to add significant additional value to such properties through our effective marketing strategies and a responsive property management program. We have developed this strategy and program for our
existing portfolio, where we provide high-quality property management services using our own employees in order to encourage tenants to renew, expand and relocate in our properties. We are able to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in
replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house and third-party vendors’ services for marketing, including calls and presentations to prospective tenants, print advertisements, lease negotiation and construction of tenant improvements.
Our tenants benefit from cost efficiencies produced by our experienced work force, which is attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management.







Internal Growth



We believe that opportunities will exist to increase cash flow from our existing properties because they are of
high quality and in desirable locations. In addition, our properties are in markets where, in general, the creation of new supply is limited by the lack of available sites, the difficulty of receiving the necessary approvals for development on
vacant land and the difficulty of obtaining financing. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is three-fold: (1) to provide high-quality property management services using our employees in order to encourage tenants
to renew, expand and relocate in our properties, (2) to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house services for marketing, lease negotiation and construction of tenant improvements
and (3) to work with new or existing tenants with space expansion or contraction needs maximizing the cash flow from our assets. We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:



•Cultivate existing submarkets and long-term relationships with credit tenants.In choosing locations for our properties, we have paid particular
attention to transportation and commuting patterns, physical environment, adjacency to established business centers, proximity to sources of business growth and other local factors.



We had an average lease term of 7.0 years at December 31,
2009 and continue to cultivate long-term leasing relationships with a diverse base of high-quality, financially stable tenants. Based on leases in place at December 31, 2009, leases with respect to 9.1% of the total square feet in our portfolio
will expire in calendar year 2010.



•Directly manage properties to maximize the potential for tenant retention.We provide property management services ourselves, rather than
contracting for this service, to maintain awareness of and responsiveness to tenant needs. We and our properties also benefit from cost efficiencies produced by an experienced work force attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management and
from our continuing programs to assure that our property management personnel at all levels remain aware of their important role in tenant relations.



•Replace tenants quickly at best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract
new tenants and achieve relatively high rental rates as a result of our well-located, well-designed and well-maintained properties, our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer expansion
and relocation alternatives within our submarkets.



•Extend terms of existing leases to existing tenants prior to expiration. We have also successfully structured early tenant renewals, which have
reduced the cost associated with lease downtime while securing the tenancy of our highest quality credit-worthy tenants on a long-term basis and enhancing relationships.



Policies with Respect to Certain Activities



The discussion below sets forth certain additional information regarding our investment, financing and other
policies. These policies have been determined by our Board of Directors and, in general, may be amended or revised from time to time by our Board of Directors.



Investment Policies



Investments in Real Estate or Interests in Real Estate



Our investment objectives are to provide quarterly cash dividends to our securityholders and to achieve long-term capital
appreciation through increases in the value of Boston Properties, Inc. We have not established a specific policy regarding the relative priority of these investment objectives.







We expect to continue to pursue our investment objectives primarily through the ownership of
our current properties, development projects and other acquired properties. We currently intend to continue to invest primarily in developments of properties and acquisitions of existing improved properties or properties in need of redevelopment,
and acquisitions of land that we believe have development potential, primarily in our markets—Boston, Washington, DC, midtown Manhattan, San Francisco and Princeton, NJ. Future investment or development activities will not be limited to a
specified percentage of our assets. We intend to engage in such future investment or development activities in a manner that is consistent with the maintenance of our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In addition, we may purchase or
lease income-producing commercial and other types of properties for long-term investment, expand and improve the real estate presently owned or other properties purchased, or sell such real estate properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances
warrant. We do not have a policy that restricts the amount or percentage of assets that will be invested in any specific property, however, our investments may be restricted by our debt covenants.



We may also continue to participate with third parties in
property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership, including third parties with expertise in mixed-use opportunities. These investments may permit us to own interests in larger assets without unduly restricting
diversification and, therefore, add flexibility in structuring our portfolio.



Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such financing or indebtedness as may be incurred in connection with acquiring or refinancing these investments.
Debt service on such financing or indebtedness will have a priority over any distributions with respect to our common stock. Investments are also subject to our policy not to be treated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of
1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”).



Investments in Real Estate Mortgages



While our current portfolio consists of, and our business objectives emphasize, equity investments in commercial real estate, we may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, invest in mortgages and other types of real estate interests
consistent with our qualification as a REIT. Investments in real estate mortgages run the risk that one or more borrowers may default under such mortgages and that the collateral securing such mortgages may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup
our full investment. Although we currently do not have any investments in mortgages or deeds of trust, we may invest in participating or convertible mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the cash flow or any appreciation in value of the
property.



Securities of or Interests in
Persons Primarily Engaged in Real Estate Activities



Subject to the percentage of ownership limitations and gross income tests necessary for our REIT qualification, we also may invest in securities of other REITs, other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other
issuers, including for the purpose of exercising control over such entities.



Dispositions



Our disposition of properties is based upon the periodic review of our portfolio and the determination by the Board of Directors that such action would be in our best interests. Any decision to dispose of
a property will be authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof. Some holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman and the estate of Edward H. Linde, would incur adverse tax consequences upon the
sale of certain of our properties that differ from the tax consequences to us. Consequently, holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any such sale. Such different
tax treatment derives in most cases from the fact that we acquired these properties in exchange for partnership interests in contribution transactions structured to allow the prior owners to defer taxable gain. Generally this deferral continues so
long as we do not dispose of the properties in a taxable transaction. Unless a sale by us of these properties is structured as a like-kind exchange under







Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code or in a manner that otherwise allows deferral to continue, recognition of the deferred tax gain allocable to these prior owners is generally
triggered by the sale. Some of our assets are subject to tax protection agreements, which may limit our ability to dispose of the assets or require us to pay damages to the prior owners in the event of a taxable sale.



Financing Policies



The agreement of limited partnership of BPLP and our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur. We do not have a policy limiting the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. However, our mortgages, credit facilities and unsecured
debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. We have not established any limit on the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any single property or on our
portfolio as a whole.



Our Board of Directors will
consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and when making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, including the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of
our properties upon refinancing, the entering into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts and the ability of particular properties and BPLP as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected
debt service.



Policies with Respect to Other Activities



As the sole general partner of BPLP, we
have the authority to issue additional common and preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP. We have in the past, and may in the future, issue common or preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP to persons who contribute
their direct or indirect interests in properties to us in exchange for such common or preferred units of limited partnership interest in BPLP. We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of issuers other
than BPLP and we do not intend to do so. At all times, we intend to make investments in such a manner as to maintain our qualification as a REIT, unless because of circumstances or changes in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the
Treasury Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to qualify as a REIT. We may make loans to third parties, including, without limitation, to joint ventures in which we participate or in connection
with the disposition of a property. We intend to make investments in such a way that we will not be treated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Our policies with respect to these and other activities may be reviewed and modified or amended
from time to time by the Board of Directors.



Energy and
Natural Resource Conservation



As one of
the largest owners and developers of office properties in the United States, we strive to limit our energy and natural resource consumption through active management at our properties. On an annual basis, we identify capital improvement projects and
building systems enhancements that have the potential to reduce the use of energy at our properties. The identified projects and enhancements are then reviewed with senior management, and the projects and enhancements that offer material energy or
resource savings and meet our investment criteria are then implemented.



In 2009, we continued to improve the process through a more holistic, corporate-wide approach. Our Sustainability Committee, which was formed in 2008, focused on (1) identifying and executing new
strategies for promoting sustainability in new construction, existing buildings and corporate operations, (2) promoting communication across regions, (3) sharing “best practices” and (4) assessing the cost effectiveness of
small and large scale projects and programs. Over the past several years, we have implemented numerous improvement projects and system enhancements, including, without limitation, the following:



•installation of higher efficiency lighting in public spaces, garages, stairways and elevators;



•installing lighting occupancy sensors in common areas and restrooms;







•installation of new, high-efficiency motors, variable frequency drives (“VFDs”), air compressors, chillers and other heating, ventilation and
air conditioning (“HVAC”) system components;



•replacing and upgrading energy management systems, including installation of carbon dioxide controls and adjusting temperature set points;



•installation of solar reflective window film to reduce solar heat gain, glare and ultraviolet radiation, and adding wall and ceiling insulation to
reduce thermal losses;



•modernizing cooling towers with high-efficiency fill and distribution pans;



•implementing programs to minimize use of water and reclaim steam condensate for our cooling towers;



•upgrading water treatment, plumbing and irrigation operations;



•installing low flow bathroom fixtures; and



•implementing extensive recycling programs.



In addition to the physical improvements and systems enhancements described above, we also benchmark building energy and resource
consumption with the goal of optimizing equipment use and operation. Across our regions we provide training for our property management staff and strive to make our tenants more aware of energy codes and energy saving opportunities. For example, we
have worked collaboratively with our tenants at many of our buildings to implement new policies trying to limit use of HVAC on weekends. We also continue to increase the use of shuttle services between certain of our properties and the local bus and
subway stations to encourage the use of mass transportation. These management initiatives are intended to not only help reduce energy consumption in the short term, but also heighten awareness of the issue to help ensure energy efficiency over the
long term.



Properties across
our portfolio have been routinely rated and benchmarked for years on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Energy Star®program. In 2009, we adopted an Energy Star strategy which requires all buildings for which we have sufficient utility data and occupancy to have their energy use
monitored using Energy Star Portfolio Manager. In 2009, 25 of our properties earned the Energy Star Award, accounting for approximately 11.1 million square feet of energy efficiency excellence. This is an increase of seven buildings over our
final 2008 count, or an additional 1.7 million square feet (+18%). We expect additional properties across our portfolio will receive the same recognition in 2010. We believe our efforts described above have led to a meaningful reduction in the
number of kilowatt-hours (“kWh”) used in the operation of our properties and a reduction in our operating expenses.



In addition to the efforts described above, we participate in utility rebate programs when making significant capital improvements and, when
economically practicable, we subscribe to long-term, fixed utility contracts on a regional basis.



On an annual basis, we intend to continue to explore ways of reducing our energy consumption and related expenses, and
conserving natural resources, across our portfolio. “Green” buildings are designed, constructed and operated to provide greater environmental, economic, health and productivity performance than conventional buildings. As a building owner,
we participate in the U.S. Green Building Council’s (“USGBC”) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (“LEED”) program designed for existing buildings. The LEED Green Building Rating System®is a voluntary, consensus-based national standard of design guidelines for high-performance, sustainable
“Green” buildings. The USGBC’s LEED certification follows a rigorous registration process which evaluates and gives Certified, Silver, Gold, and Platinum ratings to green buildings. We have established a LEED-Existing Building
Committee which oversees and supports our utilization of the program. In 2009, we had our first building certified under the LEED-Existing Building certification program, as our Waltham Weston Corporate Center achieved a Silver rating. Several other
buildings are being evaluated for certification in 2010.







We have also made a concerted effort to train and accredit our managers and staff in green
design, construction and operations. At the end of 2009, 35 managers and staff across the development, property management and construction departments were LEED Accredited Professionals or Green Associates. Maintaining and strengthening our
internal green design, construction and operations capabilities and knowledge base is a key aspect of our overall environmental strategy.



Environmentally Sound Development



As a developer, we participate in the USGBC’s LEED programs designed for new construction and commercial interiors. In 2009, we received
LEED-Core and Shell Gold certifications for two recently completed development projects totaling over 320,000 square feet – 77 City Point in Waltham, MA and Annapolis Junction in Annapolis, MD. In addition, during February 2010 we received
LEED-Core and Shell Gold certification for Democracy Tower, a 235,000 square foot Class A office property in Reston, VA.



As of February 16, 2010, we have the following LEED-Core and Shell registered projects:



•Atlantic Wharf in Boston, MA—This 860,000 square foot mixed-use development project has been pre-certified Gold LEED.



•Weston Corporate Center in Weston, MA—This 356,000 square foot Class A office development has been registered and anticipates a Gold LEED
rating.



•2200 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, DC—This 780,000 square foot mixed-use development project has been pre-certified Silver LEED.



•701 Carnegie Center in Princeton, NJ—This 120,000 square foot Class A office property has been registered and anticipates a Silver LEED
rating.



The Weston Corporate
Center, currently under construction and to be delivered in the summer of 2010, also has two environmentally significant firsts for us. The first is the use of chilled water from a quarry pond on site for cooling the building, reducing the
electricity demand for HVAC significantly. The second attribute is the installation of our first solar photovoltaic array. The first phase will be a 110 kW ground mounted installation. We anticipate exploring additional installations across the
portfolio.



Numerous other development projects
are LEED registered and targeting LEED Silver ratings or better. In addition, we actively seek opportunities to achieve LEED ratings on commercial interiors as tenants build-out or renovate their space. We have numerous commercial interior projects
either planned or currently under construction that have been designed to achieve LEED certification. By the end of 2009 seven tenant build-outs had achieved LEED-Commercial Interior certifications totaling almost 440,000 square feet of tenant space
across our portfolio. One of those spaces was our headquarters in the Prudential Center in Boston.



Many of the local jurisdictions in which we operate and develop buildings are also making efforts to promote environmentally sound
developments by adopting aspects of the LEED program. As a result, we intend to continue to be proactive in evaluating each new development to determine whether it is physically practical and economically feasible to produce a LEED certified
building. Barring unusual use, site or design constraints, we target LEED-Silver or better on all new developments. We also participate actively in green building organizations and government initiatives in the markets.







Competition



We compete in the leasing of office space with a considerable number of other real estate companies, some of
which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us. In addition, our hotel property competes for guests with other hotels, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us and
to the manager of our one hotel, Marriott International, Inc.



Principal factors of competition in our primary business of owning, acquiring and developing office properties are the quality of properties, leasing terms (including rent and other charges and allowances
for tenant improvements), attractiveness and convenience of location, the quality and breadth of tenant services provided, and reputation as an owner and operator of quality office properties in the relevant market. Additionally, our ability to
compete depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, investment alternatives, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants, availability and cost of capital, construction and
renovation costs, taxes, utilities, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.



Our Hotel Property





Seasonality



Our hotel property traditionally has experienced significant seasonality in its operating income, with the percentage of net operating income
by quarter over the year ended December 31, 2009 shown below.



First QuarterSecond QuarterThird QuarterFourth Quarter9%32%19%40%



Corporate Governance



Boston Properties is currently managed by an eleven member Board of Directors, which is divided into three classes (Class I, Class II and Class III). Our Board of Directors is currently comprised of four
Class I directors (Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Carol B. Einiger, Dr. Jacob A. Frenkel and Richard E. Salomon), four Class II directors (Lawrence S. Bacow, Zoë Baird, Alan J. Patricof and Martin Turchin) and three Class III directors
(Fredrick J. Iseman, Douglas T. Linde and David A. Twardock). The members of each class of our Board of







Directors serve for staggered three-year terms, and the terms of our current Class I, Class II and Class III directors expire at the annual meetings of stockholders to be held in 2010, 2011 and
2012, respectively.



Currently, each annual
meeting of stockholders, directors are elected or re-elected for a full term of three years to succeed those directors whose terms are expiring. However, the Board of Directors has approved an amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation that would, among other things, destagger the Board of Directors and provide for the annual election of directors. We intend to submit this amendment to our stockholders for approval at our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. If this
amendment is approved by stockholders, then commencing with the class of directors standing for election at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders our directors will stand for election for one-year terms expiring at the next succeeding annual
meeting of stockholders. Directors elected prior to the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders will continue to serve their full three-year terms.



On October 26, 2009, we announced that Richard E. Salomon has decided that he will not stand for re-election to the Board of Directors
upon the conclusion of his term at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders in order to devote more time to his other business interests. Mr. Salomon has served on our Board of Directors since November 1998, and he currently serves as Chairman
of our Compensation Committee. On February 24, 2010, Dr. Jacob A. Frenkel was appointed as a Class I director to serve until the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders.



On January 10, 2010, Edward H. Linde, our Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, passed away. Mortimer B.
Zuckerman, Co-Founder and Chairman of the Board, assumed the duties of Chief Executive Officer. On January 21, 2010, Douglas T. Linde was appointed to fill the vacancy on our Board of Directors resulting from the passing of Mr. E. Linde.
Mr. D. Linde also currently serves as our President.



Our Board of Directors has Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. The membership of each of these committees is described below.



Name of DirectorAuditCompensationNominatingandCorporateGovernanceLawrence S. BacowXZoë BairdXX*Carol B. EinigerXFredrick J. IsemanXAlan J. PatricofX*XRichard E. SalomonX*David A. TwardockXX



X=Committee member, *=Chair



•Our Board of Directors has adopted charters for each of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. The Compensation
Committee is comprised of four (4) independent directors. The Audit Committee is comprised of three (3) independent directors, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is comprised of three (3) independent directors. A
copy of each of these charters is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Committees and Charters.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com
under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Guidelines.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs business decisions made and actions taken by our directors,
officers and employees. A copy of this code is







available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Code of Conduct and Ethics.” We intend to disclose on this
website any amendment to, or waiver of, any provision of this Code applicable to our directors and executive officers that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange.



•Our Board of Directors has established an ethics reporting system that employees may use to anonymously report possible violations of the Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, including concerns regarding questionable accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, by telephone or over the internet.







