Item 1.Business



General



As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to Boston Properties, Inc., a
Delaware corporation organized in 1997, individually or together with its subsidiaries, including Boston Properties Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, and our predecessors. We are a fully integrated, self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or “REIT,” and one of the largest owners and developers of office properties in the United States.



Our properties are concentrated in five markets—Boston, New York, Princeton, San Francisco and Washington, DC. We conduct
substantially all of our business through our subsidiary, Boston Properties Limited Partnership. At December 31, 2011, we owned or had interests in 153 properties, totaling approximately 42.2 million net rentable square feet, including
seven properties under construction totaling approximately 2.6 million net rentable square feet. In addition, we had structured parking for approximately 44,528 vehicles containing approximately 15.1 million square feet. Our properties
consisted of:



•146 office properties including 128 Class A office properties (including six properties under construction) and 18 Office/Technical properties;



•one hotel;



•three retail properties; and



•three residential properties (one of which is under construction).



We own or control undeveloped land totaling approximately 510.5 acres, which could support approximately
11.4 million square feet of additional development. In addition, we have a noncontrolling interest in the Boston Properties Office Value-Added Fund, L.P., which we refer to as the “Value-Added Fund,” which is a strategic partnership
with two institutional investors through which we have pursued the acquisition of assets within our existing markets that have deficiencies in property characteristics that provide an opportunity to create value through repositioning, refurbishment
or renovation. Our investments through the Value-Added Fund are not included in our portfolio information tables or any other portfolio level statistics. At December 31, 2011, the Value-Added Fund had investments in an office property in
Chelmsford, Massachusetts and complexes in Mountain View, California.



We consider Class A office properties to be centrally-located buildings that are professionally managed and maintained, attract high-quality tenants and command upper-tier rental rates, and that are
modern structures or have been modernized to compete with newer buildings. We consider Office/Technical properties to be properties that support office, research and development, laboratory and other technical uses. Our definitions of Class A
office and Office/Technical properties may be different than those used by other companies.



We are a full-service real estate company, with substantial in-house expertise and resources in acquisitions, development, financing, capital markets, construction management, property management,
marketing, leasing, accounting, tax and legal services. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 700 employees. Our thirty-four senior officers have an average of twenty-seven years experience in the real estate industry, including an
average of seventeen years of experience with us. Our principal executive office and Boston regional office is located at The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199 and our telephone number is
(617) 236-3300. In addition, we have regional offices at 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022; 302 Carnegie Center, Princeton, New Jersey 08540; Four Embarcadero Center, San Francisco, California 94111; and 2200 Pennsylvania
Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037.



Our Web site is
located at http://www.bostonproperties.com. On our Web site, you can obtain a free copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments







to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may also obtain our reports by accessing the EDGAR database at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, or we will furnish an electronic or paper copy of
these reports free of charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, Boston Properties, Inc., The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199. The name “Boston Properties” and our logo (consisting
of a stylized “b”) are registered service marks of Boston Properties Limited Partnership.



Boston Properties Limited Partnership



Boston Properties Limited Partnership, or BPLP or our Operating Partnership, is a Delaware limited partnership, and
the entity through which we conduct substantially all of our business and own, either directly or through subsidiaries, substantially all of our assets. We are the sole general partner and, as of February 21, 2012, the owner of approximately
88.3% of the economic interests in BPLP. Economic interest was calculated as the number of common partnership units of BPLP owned by the Company as a percentage of the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership
units of BPLP, (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of outstanding preferred partnership units of BPLP and (3) the number of common units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan
units of BPLP, or LTIP Units, other than LTIP Units issued in the form of Outperformance Awards (“OPP Awards”), assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP Units. An LTIP Unit is generally the economic equivalent
of a share of our restricted common stock, although LTIP Units issued in the form of OPP Awards are only entitled to receive one-tenth (1/10

th



Preferred units of BPLP have the rights, preferences and
other privileges, including the right to convert into common units of BPLP, as are set forth in an amendment to the limited partnership agreement of BPLP. As of December 31, 2011 and February 21, 2012, BPLP had one series of its preferred
units outstanding. The Series Two Preferred Units have a liquidation preference of $50.00 per unit (or an aggregate of approximately $55.7 million and $51.5 million, respectively at December 31, 2011 and February 21, 2012). The Series
Two Preferred Units are convertible, at the holder’s election, into common units at a conversion price of $38.10 per common unit (equivalent to a ratio of 1.312336 common units per Series Two Preferred Unit). Distributions on the Series Two
Preferred Units are payable quarterly and, unless the greater rate described in the next sentence applies, accrue at 6.0% per annum. If distributions on the number of OP Units into which the Series Two Preferred Units are convertible are
greater than distributions calculated using the rate described in the preceding







sentence for the applicable quarterly period, then the greater distributions are payable instead. The holders of Series Two Preferred Units have the right to require BPLP to redeem their units
for cash at the redemption price of $50.00 per unit on May 14, 2012, May 14, 2013 and May 12, 2014. The maximum number of units that may be required to be redeemed from all holders on each of these dates is 1,007,662, which is
one-sixth of the number of Series Two Preferred Units that were originally issued. The holders also had the right to have their Series Two Preferred Units redeemed for cash as of May 12, 2009, May 12, 2010 and May 12, 2011, although
no holder exercised such right. On May 14, 2013 and May 12, 2014, BPLP also has the right, subject to certain conditions, to redeem Series Two Preferred Units for cash or to convert into OP Units any Series Two Preferred Units that are not
redeemed when they are eligible for redemption.



Transactions
During 2011



Acquisitions



On February 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of
Bay Colony Corporate Center in Waltham, Massachusetts for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $185.0 million. The purchase price consisted of approximately $41.1 million of cash and the assumption of approximately $143.9 million of
indebtedness. The assumed debt is a securitized senior mortgage loan that bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.53% per annum and matures on June 11, 2012. The loan requires interest-only payments with a balloon payment due at maturity. Bay
Colony Corporate Center is an approximately 985,000 net rentable square foot, four-building Class A office park situated on a 58-acre site in Waltham, Massachusetts.



On November 22, 2011, we acquired 2440 West El Camino
Real located in Mountain View, California for a net purchase price of approximately $71.1 million in cash. 2440 West El Camino Real is an approximately 140,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property that is currently 100% leased.



Dispositions









Developments



As of December 31, 2011, we had seven projects under
construction comprised of six office properties and one residential property, which aggregate approximately 2.6 million square feet. We estimate the total investment to complete these projects, in the aggregate, to be approximately $1.8 billion
of which we had already invested approximately $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2011. The investment through December 31, 2011 and estimated total investment for our properties under construction as of December 31, 2011 are detailed
below (in thousands):



Construction PropertiesEstimatedStabilization DateLocationInvestmentto Date(1)Estimated TotalInvestment(1)Office510 Madison AvenueThird Quarter, 2013New York, NY$355,262$375,000Annapolis Junction Lot 6 (50% ownership)Third Quarter, 2013Annapolis, MD9,21514,00012310 Sunrise ValleyFirst Quarter, 2012Reston, VA53,78067,000500 North Capitol (30% ownership)Fourth Quarter, 2013Washington, DC17,73336,540Seventeen Cambridge CenterThird Quarter, 2013Cambridge, MA23,97686,300250 West 55thStreetFourth Quarter, 2015New York, NY532,6061,050,000Total Office Properties under Construction$992,572$1,628,840ResidentialReston Town Center ResidentialFourth Quarter, 2015Reston, VA$25,041$137,250Total Residential Properties under Construction$25,041$137,250Total Properties under Construction$1,017,613$1,766,090



(1)Represents our share. Includes net revenue during lease up period and approximately $43.6 million of construction cost and leasing commission accruals.



On January 14, 2011, we placed
in-service approximately 57% of the office component of our Atlantic Wharf development project located in Boston, Massachusetts. The office component is comprised of approximately 798,000 net rentable square feet. On November 15, 2011, we
completed and fully placed in-service the office component of this development project.



On March 1, 2011, we placed in-service approximately 13% of the office component of our 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue development project located in Washington, DC. The office component is comprised of
approximately 459,000 net rentable square feet. On August 17, 2011, we completed and fully placed in-service the office component of this development project.



On May 1, 2011, we placed in-service approximately 16%
of our 510 Madison Avenue development project located in New York City. 510 Madison Avenue is an approximately 347,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property. As of December 31, 2011, 45% of this development project has been
placed in-service.



On May 11, 2011, we
partially placed in-service the Residences on The Avenue, the residential component of our 2221 I Street, NW development project located in Washington, DC. The residential component is comprised of 335 apartment units and approximately 50,000 square
feet of retail space. On July 13, 2011, we completed and fully placed in-service the residential component of this development project.



On May 24, 2011, we signed a lease with the law firm of Morrison & Foerster LLP for approximately 184,000 square feet at 250
West 55th Street in New York City. In conjunction with the execution of the lease, we resumed development of the planned approximately 989,000 square foot class A office project and commenced capitalization of interest. We expect the law firm to
move into the completed building in the spring of 2014.







On July 1, 2011, we completed and placed in-service 100% of The Lofts at Atlantic
Wharf, the residential component of our Atlantic Wharf development project located in Boston, Massachusetts. The residential component is comprised of 86 apartment units and approximately 9,000 square feet of retail space.



On July 1, 2011, we entered into lease amendments with
the existing tenant at our three-building complex in Reston, Virginia, which will be redeveloped as the headquarters for the Defense Intelligence Agency. Under the agreement, the tenant will terminate early its leases for approximately 523,000
square feet at the complex and be responsible for certain payments to us aggregating approximately $14.8 million, of which approximately $13.1 million was recognized in 2011 and the remaining approximately $1.7 million is anticipated to be
recognized during the first quarter of 2012. On July 5, 2011, we commenced the redevelopment of the 12310 Sunrise Valley Drive property at the complex, which is expected to be completed during the first quarter of 2012. We will capitalize
incremental costs during the redevelopment.



On
July 14, 2011, we entered into a 15-year lease with Biogen Idec for 100% of a build-to-suit development project with approximately 190,000 net rentable square feet of Class A office space located on land owned by us at 17 Cambridge Center
in Cambridge, Massachusetts. In conjunction with the execution of the lease, we commenced construction of the project and expect that the project will be complete and available for occupancy during the third quarter of 2013.



On December 19, 2011, we commenced the construction of
our Reston Town Center Residential project, a residential project comprised of 359 apartment units located in Reston, Virginia.



Secured Debt Transactions



On January 12, 2011, we notified the master servicer of the $25.0 million non-recourse mortgage loan collateralized by our Montvale
Center property located in Gaithersburg, Maryland that the cash flows generated from the property were insufficient to fund debt service payments and capital improvements necessary to lease and operate the property and that we were not prepared to
fund any cash shortfalls. Accordingly, at our request, the loan was placed with the special servicer. We are not current on making debt service payments and are currently in default. We are currently accruing interest at the default interest rate of
9.93% per annum. The net book value of the property at December 31, 2011 totaled approximately $8.3 million, which is less than the estimated fair value of the property (See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).



On February 1, 2011, in connection with our acquisition
of Bay Colony Corporate Center in Waltham, Massachusetts, we assumed the mortgage loan collateralized by the property totaling approximately $143.9 million. The assumed debt is a securitized senior mortgage loan that requires interest-only payments
with a balloon payment due at maturity. The assumed mortgage loan, which bears contractual interest at a fixed rate of 6.53% per annum and matures on June 11, 2012, was recorded at its fair value of approximately $149.2 million using an
effective interest rate of 3.75% per annum.



On May 11, 2011, we refinanced at maturity our mortgage loan collateralized by our 601 Lexington Avenue property located in
New York City totaling approximately $453.3 million utilizing the proceeds of a draw under our Operating Partnership’s Unsecured Line of Credit, which borrowing was secured by a mortgage on the property. The mortgage loan bore interest at a
fixed rate of 7.19% per annum.



On
August 19, 2011, we obtained mortgage financing totaling $725.0 million collateralized by our 601 Lexington Avenue property located in New York City. The mortgage loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.75% per annum and matures on
April 10, 2022. Proceeds from the mortgage financing were used to repay the borrowing under our Operating Partnership’s Unsecured Line of Credit totaling approximately $453.3 million. The additional cash proceeds were used to refinance the
$267.5 million mortgage loan collateralized by our 510 Madison Avenue property located in New York City. In connection with the refinancing, the lien of the 510 Madison Avenue mortgage was spread to 601 Lexington Avenue and released from 510 Madison
Avenue so that 510 Madison Avenue is no longer encumbered by any mortgage debt.







On November 9, 2011, we used available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized
by our Reservoir Place property located in Waltham, Massachusetts totaling $50.0 million. The mortgage financing bore interest at a variable rate equal to Eurodollar plus 2.20% per annum and was scheduled to mature on July 30, 2014. There
was no prepayment penalty. We recognized a loss from early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $0.5 million consisting of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.



On November 16, 2011, we terminated the construction loan facility collateralized by our Atlantic Wharf
property totaling $192.5 million. The construction loan facility bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 3.00% per annum and was scheduled to mature on April 21, 2012 with two, one-year extension options, subject to certain
conditions. We did not draw any amounts under the facility. We recognized a loss from early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $0.4 million consisting of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.



Unsecured Senior Notes



On November 10, 2011, our Operating Partnership
completed a public offering of $850.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.700% unsecured senior notes due 2018. The notes were priced at 99.767% of the principal amount to yield an effective interest rate (including financing fees) of 3.853%
to maturity. The notes will mature on November 15, 2018, unless earlier redeemed. The aggregate net proceeds from the offering were approximately $841.2 million after deducting underwriting discounts and transaction expenses.



Unsecured Exchangeable Senior Notes



On November 9, 2011, our Operating Partnership
repurchased $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.875% exchangeable senior notes due 2037 for approximately $50.2 million. The repurchased notes had an aggregate carrying value of approximately $49.6 million at the time of
repurchase resulting in the recognition of a loss on early extinguishment of debt of approximately $0.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 (See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).



Unsecured Line of Credit



On June 24, 2011, our Operating Partnership amended and
restated the revolving credit agreement governing its Unsecured Line of Credit, which (1) reduced the total commitment from $1.0 billion to $750.0 million, (2) extended the maturity date from August 3, 2011 to June 24, 2014, with
a provision for a one-year extension at our option, subject to certain conditions and the payment of an extension fee equal to 0.20% of the total commitment then in effect, and (3) increased the per annum variable interest rates available,
which resulted in an increase of the per annum variable interest rate on outstanding balances from Eurodollar plus 0.475% per annum to Eurodollar plus 1.225% per annum. Under the amended Unsecured Line of Credit, we may increase the total
commitment to $1.0 billion, subject to syndication of the increase. In addition, a facility fee currently equal to an aggregate of 0.225% per annum of the total commitment is payable in equal quarterly installments. The interest rate and
facility fee are subject to adjustment in the event of a change in our unsecured debt ratings. The Unsecured Line of Credit is a recourse obligation of our Operating Partnership. The Unsecured Line of Credit also contains a competitive bid option
that allows banks that are part of the lender consortium to bid to make loan advances to us at a reduced interest rate.



Equity Transactions



On April 21, 2010, we announced that we had established an “at the market” (ATM) stock offering program through which we
may sell from time to time up to an aggregate of $400.0 million of our common stock through sales agents for a three-year period. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we utilized this program to issue an aggregate of 4,228,993 shares of
common stock for gross proceeds of approximately $400.0 million and net proceeds of approximately $394.7 million. No amount remains available for issuance under this ATM program.







On June 2, 2011, we established a new ATM stock offering program through which we may
sell from time to time up to an aggregate of $600.0 million of our common stock through sales agents over a three-year period. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we issued an aggregate of 431,223 shares of common stock under this ATM
stock offering program for gross proceeds of approximately $44.9 million and net proceeds of approximately $44.3 million. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $555.1 million remained available for issuance under this ATM program.



During the year ended December 31, 2011, we acquired an
aggregate of 2,919,323 common units of limited partnership interest, including 60,414 common units issued upon the conversion of LTIP units, presented by the holders for redemption, in exchange for an equal number of shares of common stock. During
the year ended December 31, 2011, we issued 316,159 shares of common stock as a result of stock options being exercised.



Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures



On March 16, 2011, our Value-Added Fund extended the
maturity date by two months to May 31, 2011 of the mortgage loan collateralized by its Mountain View Technology Park property located in Mountain View, California totaling approximately $24.7 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at a
variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.50% per annum and was scheduled to mature on March 31, 2011. On June 29, 2011, our Value-Added Fund extended the maturity date to November 15, 2011. On November 22, 2011, our Value-Added
Fund refinanced the mortgage loan totaling approximately $24.6 million. The new mortgage loan totaling $20.0 million bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.50% per annum and matures on November 22, 2014. In connection with
the loan refinancing, the unconsolidated joint venture repaid approximately $4.6 million of the previous mortgage loan utilizing existing cash reserves and the proceeds from a loan from our Operating Partnership. The loan from our Operating
Partnership consists of an agreement to lend up to $6.0 million to the Value-Added Fund, of which approximately $3.7 million had been advanced as of December 31, 2011. The loan from our Operating Partnership bears interest at a fixed rate of
10.0% per annum and matures on November 22, 2014.



On March 26, 2011, a joint venture in which we have a 30% interest removed from service and commenced the redevelopment of 500 North Capitol Street, NW located in Washington, DC. On January 18,
2011, the joint venture entered into a lease with a law firm for approximately 171,000 square feet of space. On October 14, 2011, the unconsolidated joint venture obtained construction financing totaling $107.0 million collateralized by the
redevelopment project The construction financing bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.65% per annum and matures on October 14, 2014 with two, one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions. At closing,
approximately $33.3 million was drawn to fund the repayment of the existing mortgage loan totaling $22.0 million and approximately $11.3 million of previously incurred development costs.



On March 31, 2011, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest refinanced its construction loan
collateralized by Annapolis Junction located in Annapolis, Maryland. The construction loan totaling approximately $42.7 million bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.00% per annum and was scheduled to mature on
September 12, 2011. The new mortgage loan totaling approximately $42.3 million bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.75% per annum and matures on March 31, 2018 with one, three-year extension option, subject to
certain conditions.



On June 3, 2011, a joint
venture in which we have a 50% interest amended its joint venture agreement to add a new development project to its Annapolis Junction property located in Annapolis, Maryland. The outside joint venture partner contributed the improved parcel of land
and we contributed cash for our 50% interest. The development project is an approximately 120,000 net rentable square foot Class A office project. On November 17, 2011, the unconsolidated joint venture obtained construction financing
totaling $19.0 million collateralized by the development project. The construction financing bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.65% per annum and matures on November 17, 2013 with two, one-year extension options,
subject to certain conditions.







On June 28, 2011, our Value-Added Fund modified the mortgage loan collateralized by its
Mountain View Research Park property located in Mountain View, California. The mortgage loan totaling approximately $112.3 million bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.75% per annum and had matured on May 31,
2011. The new mortgage loan totaling $92.0 million bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.50% per annum and matures on May 31, 2014. In connection with the loan modification, the joint venture repaid
approximately $20.3 million of the previous mortgage loan utilizing unfunded capital commitments from the joint venture’s partners on a pro rata basis, existing cash reserves and the proceeds from a loan from our Operating Partnership. The loan
from our Operating Partnership consists of an agreement to lend up to $12.0 million to the Value-Added Fund, of which approximately $6.7 million had been advanced as of December 31, 2011. The loan from our Operating Partnership bears
interest at a fixed rate of 10.0% per annum and matures on May 31, 2014.





Stock Option and Incentive Plan





On
February 5, 2011, the measurement period for our 2008 OPP Awards expired and our TRS performance was not sufficient for employees to earn and therefore become eligible to vest in any of the 2008 OPP Awards. Accordingly, all 2008 OPP Awards were
automatically forfeited and the Operating Partnership repaid employees an amount equal to $0.25 (which is equal to what they paid upon acceptance of the award) multiplied by the number of 2008 OPP Awards previously received. We recorded a charge of
$4.3 million related to the acceleration of the remaining unrecognized compensation expense during year ended December 31, 2011.







Business and Growth Strategies



Business Strategy



Our primary business objective is to maximize return on
investment so as to provide our investors with the greatest possible total return. Our strategy to achieve this objective is:



•to concentrate on a few carefully selected geographic markets, including Boston, New York, Princeton, San Francisco and Washington, DC, and to be one
of the leading, if not the leading, owners and developers in each of those markets. We select markets and submarkets with a diverse economic base and a deep pool of prospective tenants in various industries and where tenants have demonstrated a
preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities;



•to emphasize markets and submarkets within those markets where the lack of available sites and the difficulty of receiving the necessary approvals for
development and the necessary financing constitute high barriers to the creation of new supply, and where skill, financial strength and diligence are required to successfully develop, finance and manage high-quality office, research and development
space, as well as selected retail and residential space;



•to take on complex, technically challenging projects, leveraging the skills of our management team to successfully develop, acquire or reposition
properties that other organizations may not have the capacity or resources to pursue;



•to concentrate on high-quality real estate designed to meet the demands of today’s tenants who require sophisticated telecommunications and
related infrastructure and support services, and to manage those facilities so as to become the landlord of choice for both existing and prospective clients;



•to opportunistically acquire assets which increase our penetration in the markets in which we have chosen to concentrate, as well as potential new
markets, which exhibit an opportunity to improve or preserve returns through repositioning (through a combination of capital improvements and shift in marketing strategy), changes in management focus and re-leasing as existing leases terminate;



•to explore joint venture opportunities primarily with existing property owners located in desirable locations, who seek to benefit from the depth of
development and management expertise we are able to provide and our access to capital, and/or to explore joint venture opportunities with strategic institutional partners, leveraging our skills as owners, operators and developers of Class A
office space and mixed-use complexes;



•to pursue on a selective basis the sale of properties, including core properties, to take advantage of our value creation and the demand for our
premier properties;



•to seek third-party development contracts, which can be a significant source of revenue and enable us to retain and utilize our existing development
and construction management staff, especially when our internal development is less active or when new development is less-warranted due to market conditions; and



•to enhance our capital structure through our access to a variety of sources of capital and proactively manage our debt expirations.



Growth Strategies



External Growth



We believe that our development experience and our
organizational depth position us to continue to selectively develop a range of property types, including low-rise suburban office properties, high-rise urban developments, mixed-use developments (including residential) and research and laboratory
space, within budget and on schedule. We believe we are also well positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:



•our control of sites (including sites under contract or option to acquire) in our markets that could support approximately 11.4 million additional
square feet of new office, retail, hotel and residential development;







•our reputation gained through 42 years of successful operations and the stability and strength of our existing portfolio of properties;



•our relationships with leading national corporations, universities and public institutions seeking new facilities and development services;



•our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the real estate industry;



•our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions efficiently provides comfort to domestic and foreign institutions, private investors and
corporations who seek to sell commercial real estate in our market areas;



•our ability to act quickly on due diligence and financing; and



•our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality real estate assets.



Opportunities to execute our external growth strategy fall
into three categories:



•Development in selected submarkets.We believe the additional development of well-positioned office buildings and mixed use complexes could be
justified in many of our submarkets. We believe in acquiring land after taking into consideration timing factors relating to economic cycles and in response to market conditions that allow for its development at the appropriate time. While we
purposely concentrate in markets with high barriers-to-entry, we have demonstrated throughout our 42-year history, an ability to make carefully timed land acquisitions in submarkets where we can become one of the market leaders in establishing rent
and other business terms. We believe that there are opportunities at key locations in our existing and other markets for a well-capitalized developer to acquire land with development potential.



In the past, we have been particularly successful at
acquiring sites or options to purchase sites that need governmental approvals for development. Because of our development expertise, knowledge of the governmental approval process and reputation for quality development with local government
regulatory bodies, we generally have been able to secure the permits necessary to allow development and to profit from the resulting increase in land value. We seek complex projects where we can add value through the efforts of our experienced and
skilled management team leading to attractive returns on investment.



Our strong regional relationships and recognized development expertise have enabled us to capitalize on unique build-to-suit opportunities. We intend to seek and expect to continue to be presented with
such opportunities in the near term allowing us to earn relatively significant returns on these development opportunities through multiple business cycles.



•Acquisition of assets and portfolios of assets from institutions or individuals.We believe that due to our size, management strength and
reputation, we are well positioned to acquire portfolios of assets or individual properties from institutions or individuals if valuations meet our criteria. In addition, we believe that our market knowledge, relatively low leverage and our
liquidity and access to capital may provide us with a competitive advantage when pursuing acquisitions. There may be enhanced opportunities to purchase assets with near-term financing maturities or possibly provide debt on assets at enhanced yields
given the limited availability of traditional sources of debt. Opportunities to acquire properties may also come through the purchase of first mortgage or mezzanine debt. We may also acquire properties for cash, but we are also particularly
well-positioned to appeal to sellers wishing to contribute on a tax-deferred basis their ownership of property for equity in a diversified real estate operating company that offers liquidity through access to the public equity markets in addition to
a quarterly distribution. Our ability to offer common and preferred units of limited partnership in BPLP to sellers who would otherwise recognize a taxable gain upon a sale of assets or our common stock may facilitate this type of transaction on a
tax-efficient basis. In addition, we may consider mergers with and acquisitions of compatible real estate firms.







•Acquisition of underperforming assets and portfolios of assets. We believe that because of our in-depth market knowledge and development
experience in each of our markets, our national reputation with brokers, financial institutions and others involved in the real estate market and our access to competitively-priced capital, we are well-positioned to identify and acquire existing,
underperforming properties for competitive prices and to add significant additional value to such properties through our effective marketing strategies and a responsive property management program. We have developed this strategy and program for our
existing portfolio, where we provide high-quality property management services using our own employees in order to encourage tenants to renew, expand and relocate in our properties. We are able to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in
replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house and third-party vendors’ services for marketing, including calls and presentations to prospective tenants, print advertisements, lease negotiation and construction of tenant improvements.
Our tenants benefit from cost efficiencies produced by our experienced work force, which is attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management.



Internal Growth



We believe that opportunities will exist to increase cash
flow from our existing properties because they are of high quality and in desirable locations within markets where, in general, the creation of new supply is limited by the lack of available sites and the difficulty of obtaining the necessary
approvals for development on vacant land and financing. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is three-fold: (1) to provide high-quality property management services using our employees in order to encourage tenants
to renew, expand and relocate in our properties, (2) to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house services for marketing, lease negotiation and construction of tenant improvements
and (3) to work with new or existing tenants with space expansion or contraction needs maximizing the cash flow from our assets. We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:



•Cultivate existing submarkets and long-term relationships with credit tenants.In choosing locations for our properties, we have paid particular
attention to transportation and commuting patterns, physical environment, adjacency to established business centers, proximity to sources of business growth and other local factors.



The average lease term of our in-place leases, including
unconsolidated joint ventures, was approximately 6.8 years at December 31, 2011 and we continue to cultivate long-term leasing relationships with a diverse base of high-quality, financially stable tenants. Based on leases in place at
December 31, 2011, leases with respect to approximately 6.1% of the total square feet in our portfolio, including unconsolidated joint ventures, will expire in calendar year 2012.



•Directly manage properties to maximize the potential for tenant retention.We provide property management services ourselves, rather than
contracting for this service, to maintain awareness of and responsiveness to tenant needs. We and our properties also benefit from cost efficiencies produced by an experienced work force attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management and
from our continuing programs to assure that our property management personnel at all levels remain aware of their important role in tenant relations.



•Replace tenants quickly at best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract
new tenants and achieve relatively high rental rates as a result of our well-located, well-designed and well-maintained properties, our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer expansion
and relocation alternatives within our submarkets.



•Extend terms of existing leases to existing tenants prior to expiration. We have also successfully structured early tenant renewals, which have
reduced the cost associated with lease downtime while securing the tenancy of our highest quality credit-worthy tenants on a long-term basis and enhancing relationships.







Policies with Respect to Certain Activities



The discussion below sets forth certain additional information regarding our investment, financing and other
policies. These policies have been determined by our Board of Directors and, in general, may be amended or revised from time to time by our Board of Directors.



Investment Policies



Investments in Real Estate or Interests in Real Estate



Our investment objectives are to provide quarterly cash
dividends to our securityholders and to achieve long-term capital appreciation through increases in the value of Boston Properties, Inc. We have not established a specific policy regarding the relative priority of these investment objectives.



We expect to continue to pursue our investment
objectives primarily through the ownership of our current properties, development projects and other acquired properties. We currently intend to continue to invest primarily in developments of properties and acquisitions of existing improved
properties or properties in need of redevelopment, and acquisitions of land that we believe have development potential, primarily in our existing markets of Boston, New York, Princeton, San Francisco and Washington, DC, but also potentially in new
markets. Future investment or development activities will not be limited to a specified percentage of our assets. We intend to engage in such future investment or development activities in a manner that is consistent with the maintenance of our
status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In addition, we may purchase or lease income-producing commercial and other types of properties for long-term investment, expand and improve the real estate presently owned or other properties
purchased, or sell such real estate properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances warrant. We do not have a policy that restricts the amount or percentage of assets that will be invested in any specific property, however, our investments may
be restricted by our debt covenants.



We may also
continue to participate with third parties in property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership, including third parties with expertise in mixed-use opportunities. These investments may permit us to own interests in larger
assets without unduly restricting diversification and, therefore, add flexibility in structuring our portfolio.



Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such financing or indebtedness as may be
incurred in connection with acquiring or refinancing these investments. Debt service on such financing or indebtedness will have a priority over any distributions with respect to our common stock. Investments are also subject to our policy not to be
treated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”).



Investments in Real Estate Mortgages



While our current portfolio consists of, and our business objectives emphasize, equity investments in commercial real estate, we may, at
the discretion of the Board of Directors, invest in mortgages and other types of real estate interests consistent with our qualification as a REIT. Investments in real estate mortgages run the risk that one or more borrowers may default under such
mortgages and that the collateral securing such mortgages may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup our full investment. Although we currently do not have any investments in mortgages or deeds of trust, we may invest in participating, convertible
or traditional mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the cash flow, or any appreciation in value of the property or as an entrance to the fee ownership.



Securities of or Interests in Entities Primarily Engaged
in Real Estate Activities



Subject to the
percentage of ownership limitations and gross income and asset tests necessary for our REIT qualification, we also may invest in securities of other REITs, other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers, including
for the purpose of exercising control over such entities.







Dispositions



Our decision to dispose of properties is based upon the
periodic review of our portfolio and the determination by the Board of Directors that such action would be in our best interests. Any decision to dispose of a property will be authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof. Some holders
of limited partnership interests in BPLP, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman, could incur adverse tax consequences upon the sale of certain of our properties that differ from the tax consequences to us. Consequently, holders of limited partnership
interests in BPLP may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any such sale. Such different tax treatment derives in most cases from the fact that we acquired these properties in exchange for partnership interests
in contribution transactions structured to allow the prior owners to defer taxable gain. Generally this deferral continues so long as we do not dispose of the properties in a taxable transaction. Unless a sale by us of these properties is structured
as a like-kind exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code or in a manner that otherwise allows deferral to continue, recognition of the deferred tax gain allocable to these prior owners is generally triggered by a sale. Some of
our assets are subject to tax protection agreements, which may limit our ability to dispose of the assets or require us to pay damages to the prior owners in the event of a taxable sale.



Financing Policies



The agreement of limited partnership of BPLP and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of
indebtedness that we may incur. We do not have a policy limiting the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. However, our mortgages, credit facilities and unsecured debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations
on our ability to incur indebtedness. We have not established any limit on the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any single property or on our portfolio as a whole.



Our Board of Directors will consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and when
making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, including the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing, the entering into agreements such as interest
rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts and the ability of particular properties and BPLP as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service.



Policies with Respect to Other Activities



As the sole general partner of BPLP, we have the authority
to issue additional common and preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP. We have in the past, and may in the future, issue common or preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP to persons who contribute their direct or
indirect interests in properties to us in exchange for such common or preferred units of limited partnership interest in BPLP. We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of issuers other than BPLP and
we do not intend to do so. At all times, we intend to make investments in such a manner as to maintain our qualification as a REIT, unless because of circumstances or changes in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the Treasury
Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to qualify as a REIT. We may make loans to third parties, including, without limitation, to joint ventures in which we participate or in connection with the
disposition of a property. We intend to make investments in such a way that we will not be treated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Our policies with respect to these and other activities may be reviewed and modified or amended from time
to time by the Board of Directors.



Sustainability



As one of the largest owners and
developers of office properties in the United States, we actively work to promote our growth and operations in a sustainable and responsible manner across our five regions. We focus our sustainability initiatives on the design and construction of
our new developments, the operation of our existing buildings and our internal corporate practices. Our sustainability initiatives are centered on energy efficiency,







waste reduction and water preservation, as well as making a positive impact on the communities in which we conduct business. Through these efforts we demonstrate that operating and developing
commercial real estate can be conducted with a conscious regard for the environment while mutually benefiting our tenants, investors, employees and the communities in which we operate. In November 2010, we launched a new page on our website to
increase the transparency of our sustainability program, which we periodically update with current or additional information. You may access our sustainability report on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading
“Sustainability.”



Competition



We compete in the leasing of office space
with a considerable number of other real estate companies, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us. In addition, our hotel property competes for guests with other hotels, some of which may have
greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us and to the manager of our one hotel, Marriott International, Inc.



Principal factors of competition in our primary business of owning, acquiring and developing office properties are the quality of
properties, leasing terms (including rent and other charges and allowances for tenant improvements), attractiveness and convenience of location, the quality and breadth of tenant services provided, and reputation as an owner and operator of quality
office properties in the relevant market. Additionally, our ability to compete depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, investment alternatives, financial condition and operating results of current and
prospective tenants, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, utilities, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.



In addition, although not part of our core strategy, we are
currently developing one residential property and operate two residential properties that are incidental to our office properties and may in the future decide to acquire or develop additional residential properties. As an owner and operator of
apartments, we will also face competition for prospective residents from other operators whose properties may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location
and amenities that the resident seeks. We will also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Because we have limited experience with residential properties, we expect to retain third parties to manage our
residential properties.



Our Hotel Property









Seasonality



Our hotel property traditionally has experienced significant
seasonality in its operating income, with the percentage of net operating income by quarter over the year ended December 31, 2011 shown below.



First QuarterSecond QuarterThird QuarterFourth Quarter3%31%24%42%



Corporate Governance



Boston Properties is currently governed by a
ten member Board of Directors. The current members of our Board of Directors are Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Lawrence S. Bacow, Zoë Baird Budinger, Carol B. Einiger, Dr. Jacob A. Frenkel, Douglas T. Linde, Matthew J. Lustig, Alan J.
Patricof, Martin Turchin and David A. Twardock.



At
the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders, our stockholders approved an amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation that will, among other things, destagger the Board of Directors and provide for the annual election of
directors. As a result, commencing with the class of directors that stood for election at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders our directors whose terms expire will stand for election for one-year terms expiring at the next succeeding annual
meeting of stockholders. Directors elected prior to the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders will continue to serve their full three-year terms.



On January 20, 2011, Matthew J. Lustig was appointed as a director to serve until the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders.



Our Board of Directors has Audit, Compensation
and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. The membership of each of these committees is described below.



Name of DirectorAuditCompensationNominatingandCorporateGovernanceLawrence S. BacowXXZoë Baird BudingerX*Carol B. EinigerXDr. Jacob A. FrenkelXAlan J. PatricofX*XDavid A. TwardockX*X



X=Committee member, *=Chair



•Our Board of Directors has adopted charters for each of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. Each Committee is
comprised of three (3) independent directors. A copy of each of these charters is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Committees and Charters.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com
under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Guidelines.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs business decisions made and actions taken by our directors,
officers and employees. A copy of this code is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Code of Conduct and Ethics.” We intend to disclose on this
website any







amendment to, or waiver of, any provision of this Code applicable to our directors and executive officers that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the New
York Stock Exchange.



•Our Board of Directors has established an ethics reporting system that employees may use to anonymously report possible violations of the Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, including concerns regarding questionable accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, by telephone or over the internet.







