Item 1.Business





General

BXP, a Delaware corporation organized in 1997; is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or “REIT,” and one of the largest owners and developers of office properties in the United States.

Our properties are concentrated in five markets—Boston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC.  For information concerning the operations of our segments, see Note14to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  AtDecember 31, 2016, we owned or had interests in174commercial real estate properties, aggregating approximately47.7 millionnet rentable square feet of primarily Class A office properties, includingeightproperties under construction/redevelopment totaling approximately4.0 millionnet rentable square feet.  As ofDecember 31, 2016our properties consisted of:



•164Office properties (includingsixproperties under construction/redevelopment);

•onehotel;

•fiveretail properties; and

•fourresidential properties (including two under construction).

We consider Class A office properties to be well-located buildings that are professionally managed and maintained, attract high-quality tenants and command upper-tier rental rates, and that are modern structures or have been modernized to compete with newer buildings.  Our definitions of Class A office properties may be different than those used by other companies.

We are a full-service real estate company, with substantial in-house expertise and resources in acquisitions, development, financing, capital markets, construction management, property management, marketing, leasing, accounting, risk management, tax and legal services.  BXP manages BPLP as its sole general partner.  As ofDecember 31, 2016, we had approximately 785 employees.  Our 35 senior officers have an average of 30 years of experience in the real estate industry, including an average of nineteen years of experience with us.  Our principal executive office and Boston regional office are located at The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199 and our telephone number is (617) 236-3300.  In addition, we have regional offices at 2400 Broadway, Suite 225, Santa Monica, California 90404, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022; Four Embarcadero Center, San Francisco, California 94111 and 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037.

Our internet address is http://www.bostonproperties.com.  On our website, you can obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.  You may also obtain BXP’s and BPLP’s reports by accessing the EDGAR database at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, or we will furnish an electronic or paper copy of these reports free of charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, Boston Properties, Inc., The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199.  “Boston Properties” is a registered trademark, and the “bxp” logo is a trademark, of BPLP.

Boston Properties Limited Partnership

BPLP is a Delaware limited partnership organized in 1997, and the entity through which we conduct substantially all of our business and own, either directly or through subsidiaries, substantially all of our assets.  BXP is the sole general partner and, as of

February 22, 2017

, the owner of approximately 89.5% of the economic interests in BPLP.  Economic interest was calculated as the number of common partnership units of BPLP owned by BXP as a percentage of the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of BPLP, (2) the number of common units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of BPLP, or LTIP Units, other than LTIP Units issued in the form of Multi-Year Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards (“MYLTIP Awards”) that remain subject to performance conditions, assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP Units, (3) the 2012 Outperformance Awards that were issued in the form of LTIP Units and earned as of February 6, 2015 (the “2012 OPP Units”), (4) the 2013 MYLTIP Units that were issued in the form of LTIP Units and earned as of February 4, 2016 (the “2013 MYLTIP Units”) and (5) the 2014 MYLTIP Units that were issued in the form of LTIP Units and earned as of February 3, 2017 (the “2014 MYLTIP Units”).  An LTIP Unit is generally the economic equivalent of a share of BXP’s restricted common stock, although LTIP Units issued in the form of MYLTIP Awards are only entitled to receive one-tenth (1/10

th

) of the regular quarterly distributions (and no special distributions) prior to being earned.  BXP’s general and limited partnership interests in BPLP entitles BXP to share in cash distributions from, a









nd in the profits and losses of, BPLP in proportion to BXP’s percentage interest and entitles BXP to vote on all matters requiring a vote of the limited partners.

Preferred units of BPLP have the rights, preferences and other privileges as are set forth in an amendment to the limited partnership agreement of BPLP.  As of

December 31, 2016

and

February 22, 2017

, BPLP had one series of Preferred Units outstanding consisting of 80,000 Series B Preferred Units.  The Series B Preferred Units have a liquidation preference of $2,500.00 per share (or an aggregate of approximately

$193.6 million

at

December 31, 2016

and

February 22, 2017

, after deducting the underwriting discount and transaction expenses).  The Series B Preferred Units were issued by BPLP on March 27, 2013 in connection with BXP’s issuance of 80,000 shares (8,000,000 depositary shares each representing 1/100th of a share) of 5.25% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”).  BXP contributed the net proceeds from the offering to BPLP in exchange for Series B Preferred Units having terms and preferences generally mirroring those of the Series B Preferred Stock.  BXP will pay cumulative cash dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock at a rate of

5.25%

per annum of the

$2,500.00

liquidation preference per share.  BXP may not redeem the Series B Preferred Stock prior to March 27, 2018, except in certain circumstances relating to the preservation of BXP’s REIT status.  On or after March 27, 2018, BXP may redeem the Series B Preferred Stock for a cash redemption price of

$2,500.00

per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends.  The Series B Preferred Stock is not redeemable by the holders, has no maturity date and is not convertible into any other security of the Company or its affiliates.



Transactions During2016

Acquisitions

On April 22, 2016, we acquired 3625-3635 Peterson Way located in Santa Clara, California for a purchase price of approximately $78.0 million in cash.  3625-3635 Peterson Way is an approximately 218,000 net rentable square foot office property.  The property is 100% leased to a single tenant through March 2021.  Following the lease expiration, we intend to develop the site into a Class A office campus containing an aggregate of approximately 632,000 net rentable square feet.

Dispositions

For information explaining why BXP and BPLP may have different gains on sales of real estate, see the Explanatory Note.

On February 1, 2016, we completed the sale of our 415 Main Street property located in Cambridge, Massachusetts to the tenant for a gross sale price of approximately $105.4 million.  Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $104.9 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $60.8 million for BXP and approximately $63.0 million for BPLP.  As part of its lease signed on July 14, 2004, the tenant was granted a fixed-price option to purchase the building at the beginning of the 11th lease year, which option was exercised by the tenant on October 22, 2014.  415 Main Street is an office property with approximately 231,000 net rentable square feet.

On August 16, 2016, we completed the sale of a parcel of land within our Broad Run Business Park property located in Loudoun County, Virginia for a gross sale price of approximately $18.0 million.  Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $17.9 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $13.0 million.

On September 27, 2016, we executed a letter of intent for the sale of the remaining parcel of land at our Washingtonian North property located in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  The letter of intent caused us to reevaluate our strategy for the land and, based on a shorter than expected hold period, we reduced the carrying value of the land to the estimated net sales price and recognized an impairment loss of approximately$1.8 millionduring the year ended December 31, 2016.  On November 14, 2016, we executed an agreement for the sale of the land for a sale price of approximately $7.8 million.  The sale is subject to the receipt of certain approvals and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and there can be no assurance that the sale will be consummated on the terms currently contemplated or at all.

Developments/Redevelopments

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we hadeightproperties under construction/redevelopment comprised ofsixoffice properties andtworesidential properties, which aggregate approximately4.0 millionsquare feet.  We estimate the total investment to complete these projects, in the aggregate, is approximately$2.3 billionof which we had already invested approximately$1.2 billionas ofDecember 31, 2016.  For a detailed list of the properties under construction/redevelopment see the following“Liquidity and Capital Resources” within “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”









On May 27, 2016, we completed and fully placed in-service 601 Massachusetts Avenue, a Class A office project with approximately 479,000 net rentable square feet located in Washington, DC.  As of December 31, 2016, this property is90%leased.

On May 27, 2016, we completed and fully placed in-service 804 Carnegie Center, a Class A office project with approximately 130,000 net rentable square feet located in Princeton, New Jersey.  As of December 31, 2016, this property is 100% leased.

On June 24, 2016, we completed and fully placed in-service 10 CityPoint, a Class A office project with approximately 241,000 net rentable square feet located in Waltham, Massachusetts.  As of December 31, 2016, this property is93%leased.

On August 19, 2016, the consolidated entity in which we have a 55% interest and that owns 601 Lexington Avenue located in New York City commenced the redevelopment of the six-story, low-rise office and retail building component of the complex, which will be called 159 East 53rd Street.  The redeveloped portion of the low-rise building will contain approximately 195,000 net rentable square feet of Class A office space and approximately 25,000 net rentable square feet of retail space.  We will capitalize incremental costs during the redevelopment.  We expect the building will be available for occupancy during the second quarter of 2018.  As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2016, BXP and BPLP recognized approximately $50.8 million and $47.6 million, respectively, of depreciation expense associated with the acceleration of depreciation on the assets being removed from service and demolished as part of the redevelopment of the property.  Approximately $21.4 million of those amounts was allocated to the outside partners and is included within Noncontrolling Interests in Property Partnerships in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

On September 16, 2016, we partially placed in-service 888 Boylston Street, a Class A office project with approximately 425,000 net rentable square feet located in Boston, Massachusetts.  As of December 31, 2016, this property is84%leased.

On November 7, 2016, we entered into a 15-year lease with a tenant for approximately 476,500 net rentable square feet of Class A office space in a build-to-suit development project to be located at our 145 Broadway property at Kendall Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  145 Broadway currently consists of an approximately 80,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property that will be demolished and developed into an approximately 486,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property, including approximately 9,500 net rentable square feet of retail space.  The commencement of the redevelopment project is subject to the receipt of the remaining necessary approvals, and we currently expect to begin the project in the second quarter of 2017 with the relocation of an existing tenant to another property within our portfolio.  We expect the building will be available for occupancy during the fourth quarter of 2019.  There can be no assurance that the project will commence or that the building will be available for occupancy on the anticipated schedule or at all.

On December 29, 2016, we commenced the redevelopment of 191 Spring Street, a Class A office project with approximately 160,000 net rentable square feet located in Lexington, Massachusetts.  We expect the building will be available for occupancy during the fourth quarter of 2017.  As of February 22, 2017, this project was approximately50%leased.

Option and Development Agreements

On October 24, 2016, we entered into an option agreement that will allow us to ground lease, with the future right to purchase, real property adjacent to the MacArthur BART station located in Oakland, California, that could support the development of a 400-unit residential building and supporting retail space.

On December 6, 2016, we entered into a development agreement with The George Washington University to pursue the development of a Class A office property with approximately 482,000 net rentable square feet on land parcels located at 2100 Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, DC.  The development agreement provides for the execution of a 75-year ground lease for the property upon completion of the entitlement process and relocation of existing tenants anticipated to occur in 2019.  We have made a deposit of $15.0 million that, upon execution of the ground lease, will be credited against ground rent under the ground lease.

Lease Terminations

On February 3, 2016, we entered into a lease termination agreement with a tenant for an approximately 85,000 square foot lease at our 250 West 55th Street property located in New York City.  The lease was scheduled to expire on February 28, 2035.  In consideration for the termination of the lease, the tenant paid us approximately $45.0 million, which was recognized as termination income and is included in Base Rent in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2016.









Secured Debt Transactions

On April 11, 2016, we used available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our Fountain Square property located in Reston, Virginia totaling approximately $211.3 million.  The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 5.71% per annum and was scheduled to mature on October 11, 2016.  There was no prepayment penalty.

On September 1, 2016, we used a portion of the net proceeds from BPLP’s August 2016 offering of senior unsecured notes (See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our 599 Lexington Avenue property located in New York City totaling $750.0 million.  The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 5.57% per annum (5.41% per annum including the impact of financing costs and interest rate hedges) and was scheduled to mature on March 1, 2017.  There was no prepayment penalty.  We recognized a gain from early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $0.4 million consisting of the acceleration of the remaining balance related to the effective portion of a previous interest rate hedging program included within accumulated other comprehensive loss, offset by the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs.

On September 1, 2016, we used a portion of the net proceeds from BPLP’s August 2016 offering of senior unsecured notes (See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our Embarcadero Center Four property located in San Francisco, California totaling approximately $344.8 million.  The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 6.10% per annum (7.02% per annum including the impact of financing costs and interest rate hedges) and was scheduled to mature on December 1, 2016.  There was no prepayment penalty.  We recognized a loss from early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $0.7 million consisting of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs and the acceleration of the remaining balance related to the effective portion of a previous interest rate hedging program included within accumulated other comprehensive loss.

Unsecured Debt Transactions

On January 20, 2016, BPLP completed a public offering of $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of its 3.650% senior unsecured notes due 2026.  The notes were priced at 99.708% of the principal amount to yield an effective rate (including financing fees) of approximately 3.766% per annum to maturity.  The notes will mature on February 1, 2026, unless earlier redeemed.  The aggregate net proceeds from the offering were approximately $988.9 million after deducting underwriting discounts and transaction expenses.

On August 17, 2016, BPLP completed a public offering of $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of its 2.750% senior unsecured notes due 2026.  The notes were priced at 99.271% of the principal amount to yield an effective rate, including financing fees and the impact of the settlement of certain forward-starting interest rate swap contracts (See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), of approximately 3.495% per annum to maturity.  The notes will mature on October 1, 2026, unless earlier redeemed.  The aggregate net proceeds from the offering were approximately $984.7 million after deducting underwriting discounts and transaction expenses.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

On February 19, 2015, BPLP commenced a planned interest rate hedging program.  During the year ended December 31, 2015, BPLP entered into 17 forward-starting interest rate swap contracts that fix the 10-year swap rate at a weighted-average rate of approximately 2.423% per annum on notional amounts aggregating $550.0 million.  These interest rate swap contracts were entered into in advance of a financing with a target commencement date in September 2016 and maturity in September 2026.  On August 17, 2016, in conjunction with BPLP’s offering of its 2.750% senior unsecured notes due 2026 (See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), we terminated the forward-starting interest rate swap contracts and cash-settled the contracts by making cash payments to the counterparties aggregating approximately $49.3 million.  We recognized approximately $0.1 million of losses on interest rate contracts during the year ended December 31, 2016 related to the partial ineffectiveness of the interest rate contracts.  We will reclassify into earnings, as an increase to interest expense, approximately $49.2 million (or approximately $4.9 million per year over the 10-year term of the 2.750% senior unsecured notes due 2026) of the amounts recorded in the consolidated balance sheets within accumulated other comprehensive loss, which represents the effective portion of the applicable interest rate contracts.

In addition, beginning in 2015, our 767 Fifth Partners LLC, which is a subsidiary of the consolidated entity in which we have a 60% interest and that owns 767 Fifth Avenue (the General Motors Building) in New York City, entered into sixteen forward-starting interest rate swap contracts that fix the 10-year swap rate at a weighted-average rate of approximately 2.619% per annum on notional amounts aggregating $450.0 million.  These interest rate swap contracts were entered into in advance of a financing with a target commencement date in June 2017 and maturity in June 2027.  Our 767 Fifth Partners LLC consolidated entity entered into the interest rate swap contracts designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges to reduce its









exposure to the variability in future cash flows attributable to changes in the 10-year swap rate in contemplation of obtaining 10-year fixed-rate financing in June 2017 (See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

Equity Transactions

During the year ended December 31, 2016, BXP acquired an aggregate of 190,857 common units of limited partnership interest, including 103,847 common units issued upon the conversion of LTIP Units, 2012 OPP Units and 2013 MYLTIP Units presented by the holders for redemption, in exchange for an equal number of shares of BXP common stock.

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures

On July 1, 2016, we entered the Los Angeles market through our acquisition of a 49.8% interest in an existing joint venture that owns and operates Colorado Center located in Santa Monica, California for a gross purchase price of approximately $511.1 million, or approximately $503.6 million in cash net of credits for free rent, unfunded leasing costs and other adjustments.  Colorado Center is a six-building office complex that sits on a 15-acre site and contains an aggregate of approximately 1,184,000 net rentable square feet with an underground parking garage for 3,100 vehicles.

On October 1, 2016, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest completed and fully placed in-service 1265 Main Street, a Class A office project with approximately 115,000 net rentable square feet located in Waltham, Massachusetts.  The property is 100% leased.  On December 8, 2016, the joint venture obtained mortgage financing totaling $40.4 million collateralized by the property.  The mortgage loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.77% per annum and matures on January 1, 2032.

On October 20, 2016, we and our partner in the unconsolidated joint venture that owns Metropolitan Square located in Washington, DC, completed the sale of an 80% interest in the joint venture for a gross sale price of approximately $282.4 million, including the assumption by the buyer of its pro rata share of the mortgage loan collateralized by the property totaling approximately $133.4 million.  In addition, the buyer agreed to assume certain unfunded leasing costs totaling approximately $14.2 million.  Net proceeds to us totaled approximately $58.2 million, resulting in a gain on sale of investment totaling approximately $59.4 million.  Prior to the sale, we owned a 51% interest and our partner owned a 49% interest in the joint venture.  Following the sale, we continue to own a 20% interest in the joint venture with the buyer owning the remaining 80%.  Metropolitan Square is an approximately 607,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property.

On November 15, 2016, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest extended the loan collateralized by its Annapolis Junction Building Six property.  At the time of the extension, the loan had an outstanding balance of approximately$12.9 millionand was scheduled to mature on November 17, 2016.  The extended loan has a total commitment amount of approximately $15.4 million, bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.25% per annum and matures on November 17, 2018.  Annapolis Junction Building Six is a Class A office property with approximately 119,000 net rentable square feet located in Annapolis, Maryland.

On November 28, 2016, we entered into a joint venture with the partner at our North Station development to acquire the air rights for the future development of a hotel property at the site.  The joint venture partner contributed an air rights parcel and improvements, with a fair value of approximately $7.4 million, for its initial 50% interest in the joint venture.  We contributed improvements totaling approximately $0.7 million and will contribute cash totaling approximately $6.7 million for our initial 50% interest.  On November 28, 2016, the joint venture entered into a 99-year air rights lease with a third-party hotel developer/operator.  In addition, on November 28, 2016, we and our partner entered into a joint venture to acquire the air rights for the future development of a residential tower at the site, consisting of an approximately 40-story residential tower totaling approximately 320,000 rentable square feet comprised of 440 apartment units.  The joint venture partner contributed an air rights parcel, with a fair value of approximately $24.2 million, for its initial 50% interest in the joint venture.  We contributed









cash and improvements totaling approximately $17.7 million and will contribute cash totaling approximately $6.5 million for our initial 50% interest.

On December 7, 2016, two joint ventures, in which we have a50%interest in each, combined and extended mortgage loans totaling approximately$21.6 millionand$15.1 millioncollateralized by Annapolis Junction Building Seven and Eight, respectively.  On April 4, 2016, the mortgage loan collateralized by Annapolis Junction Building Seven had been extended from April 4, 2016 to April 4, 2017, withone,one-year extension option, subject to certain conditions, and bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus1.65%per annum.  The mortgage loan collateralized by Annapolis Junction Building Eight bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus1.50%per annum and was scheduled to mature on June 23, 2017, withtwo,one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions.  The new mortgage loan has a total commitment amount of approximately$42.0 million, with an initial balance totaling approximately$36.7 million, bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus2.35%per annum and matures on December 7, 2019, withthree,one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions.  Annapolis Junction Building Seven and Eight are Class A office properties with approximately127,000and126,000net rentable square feet, respectively, located in Annapolis, Maryland.

On December 19, 2016, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest obtained construction financing with a total commitment of $250.0 million collateralized by its Dock 72 development project.  The construction financing bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.25% per annum and matures on December 18, 2020, with two, one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions.  As of December 31, 2016, there have been no amounts drawn under the loan.  Dock 72 is a Class A office project with approximately 670,000 net rentable square feet located in Brooklyn, New York.

Stock Option and Incentive Plan

On January 25, 2016, BXP’s Compensation Committee approved a new equity-based, multi-year, long-term incentive program (the “2016 MYLTIP”) as a performance-based component of our overall compensation program.  Under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718 “Compensation - Stock Compensation,” the 2016 MYLTIP has an aggregate grant fair value of approximately $17.3 million, which amount will generally be amortized into earnings over the four-year plan period under the graded vesting method (See Note17to the Consolidated Financial Statements).





Business and Growth Strategies

Business Strategies

Our primary business objective is to maximize return on investment to provide our investors with the greatest possible total return in all points of the economic cycle. Our strategies to achieve this objective are:

•to target a few carefully selected geographic markets: Boston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC, and to be one of the leading, if not the leading, owners, developers and managers in each of those markets with a full-service office in each market providing property management, leasing, development, construction and legal expertise.  We select markets and submarkets with a diverse economic base and a deep pool of prospective tenants in various industries and where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities.  Additionally, our markets have historically been able to recruit new talent to them and as such created job growth that results in growth in rental rates and occupancy over time.  We have explored and may continue to explore for future investment select domestic and international markets that exhibit these same traits;

•to emphasize markets and submarkets within those markets where the lack of available sites and the difficulty of receiving the necessary approvals for development and the necessary financing constitute high barriers to the creation of new supply, and where skill, financial strength and diligence are required to successfully develop, finance and manage high-quality office, research and development space, as well as selected retail and residential space;

•to take on complex, technically challenging development projects, leveraging the skills of our management team to successfully develop, acquire or reposition properties that other organizations may not have the capacity or resources to pursue;

•to own and develop high-quality real estate designed to meet the demands of today’s tenants who require sophisticated telecommunications and related infrastructure, support services, sustainable features and amenities, and to manage those facilities so as to become the landlord of choice for both existing and prospective clients;









•to opportunistically acquire assets which increase our market share in the markets in which we have chosen to concentrate, as well as potential new markets, which exhibit an opportunity to improve or preserve returns through repositioning (through a combination of capital improvements and shift in marketing strategy), changes in management focus and leasing;

•to explore joint venture opportunities with existing property owners located in desirable locations, who seek to benefit from the depth of development and management expertise we are able to provide and our access to capital, and/or to explore joint venture opportunities with strategic institutional partners, leveraging our skills as owners, operators and developers of Class A office space and mixed-use complexes;

•to pursue on a selective basis the sale of properties or interests therein, including core properties, to either (1) take advantage of the demand for our premier properties and realize the value we have created or (2) pare from our portfolio properties that we believe have slower future growth potential;

•to seek third-party development contracts to enable us to retain and utilize our existing development and construction management staff, especially when our internal development is less active or when new development is less-warranted due to market conditions; and

•to enhance our capital structure through our access to a variety of sources of capital and proactively manage our debt expirations.  In the current economic climate with relatively low interest rates we have and will continue to attempt to lower the cost of our debt capital and seek opportunities to lock in such low rates through early debt repayment, refinancings and interest rate hedges.

Growth Strategies

External Growth Strategies

We believe that our development experience, our organizational depth and our balance sheet position us to continue to selectively develop a range of property types, including high-rise urban developments, mixed-use developments (including office, residential and retail), low-rise suburban office properties and research and laboratory space, within budget and on schedule.  We believe we are also well positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions.  Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:

•our control of sites (including sites under contract or option to acquire) in our markets that could support in excess of 14.2 million additional square feet of new office, retail and residential development;

•our reputation gained through47years of successful operations and the stability and strength of our existing portfolio of properties;

•our relationships with leading national corporations, universities and public institutions, including government agencies, seeking new facilities and development services;

•our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the real estate industry;

•our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions efficiently provide comfort to domestic and foreign institutions, private investors and corporations who seek to sell commercial real estate in our market areas;

•our ability to act quickly on due diligence and financing;

•our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality real estate assets; and

•our ability to procure entitlements from multiple municipalities to develop sites and attract land owners to sell or partner with us.

Opportunities to execute our external growth strategy fall into three categories:

•Development in selected submarkets.We believe the selected development of well-positioned office buildings, residential buildings and mixed-use complexes is justified in our markets.  We believe in acquiring land after taking into consideration timing factors relating to economic cycles and in response to market conditions that allow for its development at the appropriate time.  While we purposely concentrate in markets with high barriers-to-entry, we have demonstrated throughout our47-year history, an ability to make carefully timed land acquisitions in submarkets where we can become one of the market leaders in establishing rent and other business terms.  We believe that there are opportunities at key locations in our existing and other markets for a well-capitalized developer to acquire land with development potential.









In the past, we have been particularly successful at acquiring sites or options to purchase sites that need governmental approvals for development.  Because of our development expertise, knowledge of the governmental approval process and reputation for quality development with local government regulatory bodies, we generally have been able to secure the permits necessary to allow development and to profit from the resulting increase in land value.  We seek complex projects where we can add value through the efforts of our experienced and skilled management team leading to attractive returns on investment.

Our strong regional relationships and recognized development expertise have enabled us to capitalize on unique build-to-suit opportunities.  We intend to seek and expect to continue to be presented with such opportunities in the near term allowing us to earn relatively significant returns on these development opportunities through multiple business cycles.

•Acquisition of assets and portfolios of assets from institutions or individuals.We believe that due to our size, management strength and reputation, we are well positioned to acquire portfolios of assets or individual properties from institutions or individuals if valuations meet our criteria.  In addition, we believe that our market knowledge and our liquidity and access to capital may provide us with a competitive advantage when pursuing acquisitions.  Opportunities to acquire properties may also come through the purchase of first mortgage or mezzanine debt.  We are also able to appeal to sellers wishing to contribute on a tax-deferred basis their ownership of property for equity in a diversified real estate operating company that offers liquidity through access to the public equity markets in addition to a quarterly distribution.  Our ability to offer common and preferred units of limited partnership in BPLP to sellers who would otherwise recognize a taxable gain upon a sale of assets for cash or BXP’s common stock may facilitate this type of transaction on a tax-efficient basis.  Recent Treasury Regulations, however may limit certain of the tax benefits previously available to sellers in these transactions.

•Acquisition of underperforming assets and portfolios of assets. We believe that because of our in-depth market knowledge and development experience in each of our markets, our national reputation with brokers, financial institutions, owners of real estate and others involved in the real estate market and our access to competitively-priced capital, we are well-positioned to identify and acquire existing, underperforming properties for competitive prices and to add significant additional value to such properties through our effective marketing strategies, repositioning/redevelopment expertise and a responsive property management program.

Internal Growth Strategies

We believe that opportunities will exist to increase cash flow from our existing properties through an increase in occupancy and rental rates because they are of high quality and in desirable locations within markets where, in general, the creation of new supply is limited by the lack of available sites and the difficulty of obtaining the necessary approvals for development on vacant land and financing.  Additionally, our markets have diversified economies that have historically experienced job growth and increased use of office space, resulting in growth in rental rates and occupancy over time.  Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is three-fold: (1) to provide high-quality property management services using our employees in order to encourage tenants to renew, expand and relocate in our properties, (2) to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house services for marketing, lease negotiation and construction of tenant and capital improvements and (3) to work with new or existing tenants with space expansion or contraction needs maximizing the cash flow from our assets.  We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:

•Cultivate existing submarkets and long-term relationships with credit tenants.In choosing locations for our properties, we have paid particular attention to transportation and commuting patterns, physical environment, adjacency to established business centers and amenities, proximity to sources of business growth and other local factors.

The average lease term of our in-place leases, including leases signed by our unconsolidated joint ventures, was approximately7.3years atDecember 31, 2016, and we continue to cultivate long-term leasing relationships with a diverse base of high-quality, financially stable tenants.  Based on leases in place atDecember 31, 2016, leases with respect to approximately 6.0% of the total square feet in our portfolio, including unconsolidated joint ventures, will expire in calendar year 2017.

•Directly manage our office properties to maximize the potential for tenant retention.We provide property management services ourselves, rather than contracting for this service, to maintain awareness of and responsiveness to tenant needs.  We and our properties also benefit from cost efficiencies produced by an experienced work force attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management and from our continuing programs to assure that our property management personnel at all levels remain aware of their important role in tenant relations.









•Replace tenants quickly at best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract new tenants and achieve relatively high rental and occupancy rates as a result of our well-located, well-designed and well-maintained properties, our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer expansion and relocation alternatives within our submarkets.

•Extend terms of existing leases to existing tenants prior to expiration. We have also successfully structured early tenant renewals, which have reduced the cost associated with lease downtime while securing the tenancy of our highest quality credit-worthy tenants on a long-term basis and enhancing relationships.



Policies with Respect to Certain Activities

The discussion below sets forth certain additional information regarding our investment, financing and other policies. These policies have been determined by BXP’s Board of Directors and, in general, may be amended or revised from time to time by the Board of Directors.

Investment Policies

Investments in Real Estate or Interests in Real Estate

Our investment objectives are to provide quarterly cash dividends/distributions to our securityholders and to achieve long-term capital appreciation through increases in our value.  We have not established a specific policy regarding the relative priority of these investment objectives.

We expect to continue to pursue our investment objectives primarily through the ownership of our current properties, development projects and other acquired properties.  We currently intend to continue to invest primarily in developments of properties and acquisitions of existing improved properties or properties in need of redevelopment, and acquisitions of land that we believe have development potential, primarily in our existing markets of Boston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC.  We have explored and may continue to explore for future investment select domestic and international markets that exhibit these same traits.  Future investment or development activities will not be limited to a specified percentage of our assets.  We intend to engage in such future investment or development activities in a manner that is consistent with the maintenance of BXP’s status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  In addition, we may purchase or lease income-producing commercial and other types of properties for long-term investment, expand and improve the real estate presently owned or other properties purchased, or sell such real estate properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances warrant.  We do not have a policy that restricts the amount or percentage of assets that will be invested in any specific property, however, our investments may be restricted by our debt covenants.

We may also continue to participate with third parties in property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership.  These investments may permit us to own interests in larger assets without unduly restricting diversification and, therefore, add flexibility in structuring our portfolio.

Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such financing or indebtedness as may be incurred in connection with acquiring or refinancing these investments.  Debt service on such financing or indebtedness will have a priority over any distributions with respect to BXP’s common stock.  Investments are also subject to our policy not to be treated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”).

Investments in Real Estate Mortgages

While our current portfolio consists primarily of, and our business objectives emphasize, equity investments in commercial real estate, we may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors of BXP, invest in mortgages and other types of real estate interests consistent with BXP’s qualification as a REIT.  Investments in real estate mortgages run the risk that one or more borrowers may default under such mortgages and that the collateral securing such mortgages may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup our full investment.  We may invest in participating, convertible or traditional mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the cash flow, or any appreciation in value of the property or as an entrance to the fee ownership.

Securities of or Interests in Entities Primarily Engaged in Real Estate Activities

Subject to the percentage of ownership limitations and gross income and asset tests necessary for BXP’s REIT qualification, we also may invest in securities of other REITs, other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers, including for the purpose of exercising control over such entities.









Dispositions

Financing Policies

The agreement of limited partnership of BPLP and BXP’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur.  Further, we do not have a policy limiting the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, nor have we established any limit on the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any single property or on our portfolio as a whole.  However, our mortgages, credit facilities and unsecured debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness.  In addition, we evaluate the impact of incremental leverage on our debt metrics and the credit ratings of BPLP's publicly traded debt.

The Board of Directors of BXP will consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and when making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, including the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing, the entering into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts and the ability of particular properties and us as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service.

Policies with Respect to Other Activities

As the sole general partner of BPLP, BXP has the authority to issue additional common and preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP.  BXP has issued, and may in the future issue, common or preferred units of limited partnership interest to persons who contribute their direct or indirect interests in properties to us in exchange for such common or preferred units.  We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of issuers other than BPLP and we do not intend to do so.  At all times, we intend to make investments in such a manner as to enable BXP to maintain its qualification as a REIT, unless, due to changes in circumstances or to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder), the Board of Directors of BXP determines that it is no longer in the best interest of BXP to qualify as a REIT.  We may make loans to third parties, including, without limitation, to joint ventures in which we participate or in connection with the disposition of a property.  We intend to make investments in such a way that we will not be treated as an investment company under the 1940 Act.  Our policies with respect to these and other activities may be reviewed and modified or amended from time to time by the Board of Directors of BXP.

Sustainability

As one of the largest owners and developers of office properties in the United States, we actively work to promote our growth and operations in a sustainable and responsible manner across our five regions.  Our sustainability strategy is broadly focused on the economic, social and environmental aspects of our activities, which include the design and construction of our new developments and the operation of our existing buildings.  We are focused on creating healthy workspaces and high performance properties while simultaneously mitigating operational costs and the potential external impacts of energy, water, waste and greenhouse gas emissions.  To that end, we have publicly adopted long-term energy, emissions, water and waste goals that establish aggressive reduction targets.  As a company with a core strategy of long-term ownership, we are committed to charitable giving, volunteerism and public realm investments that make a positive impact on the communities in which we conduct business.  Through these efforts, we demonstrate that operating and developing commercial real estate can be conducted with a conscious regard for the environment while mutually benefiting our tenants, investors, employees and the communities in which we operate.









We have been recognized as an industry leader in sustainability.  During 2016, we ranked second among US Office companies in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (“GRESB”) assessment.  BXP was among the top 5% of all participants, ranking 36th out of 733 global companies.  2016 was the fifth straight year that BXP has ranked in the top quartile of GRESB assessment participants, earning another “Green Star” recognition and a GRESB 5-star Rating.  During 2014 and 2015, BXP was selected by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) as a Leader in the Light Award winner.  NAREITs annual Leader in the Light Awards honor NAREIT member companies that have demonstrated superior and sustained sustainability practices.

We are committed to transparent reporting of environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) sustainability indicators.  BXP publishes an annual sustainability report that is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) reporting framework.  Our sustainability strategy, key performance indicators, achievements and sustainability reports are available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Sustainability.”Except for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

We compete in the leasing of office, retail and residential space with a considerable number of other real estate companies, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us.  In addition, our hotel property competes for guests with other hotels, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us and to the manager of our one hotel, Marriott International, Inc.

Principal factors of competition in our primary business of owning, acquiring and developing office properties are the quality of properties, leasing terms (including rent and other charges and allowances for tenant improvements), attractiveness and convenience of location, the quality and breadth of tenant services provided, and reputation as an owner and operator of quality office properties in the relevant market.  Additionally, our ability to compete depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, investment alternatives, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, utilities, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.

In addition, we currently have four residential properties (including two under construction) and may in the future decide to acquire or develop additional residential properties.  As an owner, we will also face competition for prospective residents from other operators/owners whose properties may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the resident seeks.  We will also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent.  Because the scale of our residential portfolio is relatively small, we expect to continue to retain third parties to manage our residential properties.

Our Hotel Property

We operate our hotel property through a taxable REIT subsidiary.  The taxable REIT subsidiary, a wholly-owned subsidiary of BPLP, is the lessee pursuant to a lease for the hotel property.  As lessor, BPLP is entitled to a percentage of gross receipts from the hotel property.  The hotel lease is intended to provide the economic benefits of ownership of the underlying real estate to flow to us as rental income, while our taxable REIT subsidiary earns the profit from operating the property as a hotel.  Marriott International, Inc. continues to manage the hotel property under the Marriott name and under terms of the existing management agreements.  Marriott has been engaged under a separate long-term incentive management agreement to operate and manage the hotel on behalf of the taxable REIT subsidiary.

Corporate Governance

BXP is currently governed by an eleven member Board of Directors.  The current members of the Board of Directors of BXP are Bruce W. Duncan, Karen E. Dykstra, Carol B. Einiger, Dr. Jacob A. Frenkel, Joel I. Klein, Douglas T. Linde, Matthew J. Lustig, Alan J. Patricof, Owen D. Thomas, Martin Turchin and David A. Twardock.  All directors of BXP stand for election for one-year terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders.

Joel I. Klein currently serves as the Lead Independent Director of BXP's Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors of BXP also has Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees.  The membership of each of these committees is described below.









Independent DirectorAuditCompensationNominatingandCorporateGovernanceBruce W. DuncanXKaren E. DykstraXCarol B. EinigerX*Dr. Jacob A. FrenkelX*Joel I. Klein **XMatthew J. LustigXAlan J. PatricofXXMartin TurchinXDavid A. TwardockX*X



X=Committee member, *=Chair, **=Lead Independent Director

•The Board of Directors has adopted charters for each of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees.  A copy of each of these charters is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Committees and Charters.”

•The Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Guidelines.”

•The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs business decisions made and actions taken by BXP’s directors, officers and employees.  A copy of this code is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Code of Conduct and Ethics.” BXP intends to disclose on this website any amendment to, or waiver of, any provisions of this Code applicable to the directors and executive officers of BXP that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange.

•The Board of Directors has established an ethics reporting system that employees may use to anonymously report possible violations of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, including concerns regarding questionable accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, by telephone or over the internet.

•The Board of Directors has adopted a Policy on Company Political Spending, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Policy on Political Spending.”

Recent Tax Legislation Affecting BXP and BPLP

Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015

On November 2, 2015, Congress enacted the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015.  Among other things, this Act changes the rules applicable to federal income tax audits of partnerships (such as BPLP) and the collection of any tax resulting from any such audits or other tax proceedings.  Under the new rules, the partnership itself must pay any “imputed underpayments,” consisting of delinquent taxes, interest, and penalties deemed to arise out of an audit of the partnership, unless certain alternative methods are available and the partnership elects to utilize them.

The new rule generally does not apply to audits of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018, and many of the details, including the means by which a partnership can avail itself of the alternative methods and the manner in which the alternative methods may apply to REITs, will be determined through Treasury Regulations.  Proposed Treasury Regulations provide guidance as to how these rules apply to REITs, including clarification regarding the treatment of deficiency dividends. However, these regulations have not been finalized and the government has imposed an indefinite freeze on further regulatory action.  Therefore, it is not clear at this time what effect this new legislation will have on us.  However, it is possible that in the future, BXP or BPLP, or both, could be subject to, or otherwise bear the economic burden of, federal income tax, interest, and penalties resulting from a federal income tax audit as a result of the changes enacted by the Act.









Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015

On December 18, 2015, Congress enacted the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015.  This legislation modifies a number of rules pertaining to qualification as a REIT and the taxation of REITs and their shareholders, including, among others, the following changes to certain rules described in the disclosure set forth in our prospectus:

•For tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, not more than 20% of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries.  At this time, the securities we own in our taxable REIT subsidiaries do not, in the aggregate, exceed 20% of the total value of our assets.

•A 100% excise tax is imposed on “redetermined TRS service income,” which is income of a taxable REIT subsidiary attributable to services provided to, or on behalf of its associated REIT and which would otherwise be increased on distribution, apportionment, or allocation under Section 482 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (i.e., as a result of a determination that the income was not arm’s length).



