Item 1.Business





General

BXP, a Delaware corporation organized in 1997, is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or “REIT,” and one of the largest owners, managers and developers of office properties in the United States.

Our properties are concentrated in five markets—Boston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC.  For information concerning the operations of our segments, see Note14to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  AtDecember 31, 2017, we owned or had interests in179commercial real estate properties, aggregating approximately50.3 millionnet rentable square feet of primarily Class A office properties, includingtwelveproperties under construction/redevelopment totaling approximately6.2 millionnet rentable square feet.  As ofDecember 31, 2017our properties consisted of:



•167office properties (includingeightproperties under construction/redevelopment);

•sixresidential properties (includingfourunder construction);

•fiveretail properties; and

•onehotel.

We consider Class A office properties to be well-located buildings that are professionally managed and maintained, attract high-quality tenants and command upper-tier rental rates, and that are modern structures or have been modernized to compete with newer buildings.  Our definition of Class A office properties may be different than those used by other companies.

We are a full-service real estate company, with substantial in-house expertise and resources in acquisitions, development, financing, capital markets, construction management, property management, marketing, leasing, accounting, risk management, tax and legal services.  BXP manages BPLP as its sole general partner.  As ofDecember 31, 2017, we had approximately 740 employees.  Our 36 senior officers have an average of 30 years of experience in the real estate industry, including an average of nineteen years of experience with us.  Our principal executive office and Boston regional office are located at Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199 and our telephone number is (617) 236-3300.  In addition, we have regional offices at 2400 Broadway, Suite 510, Santa Monica, California 90404, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022, Four Embarcadero Center, San Francisco, California 94111 and 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037.

Our internet address is http://www.bostonproperties.com.  On our website, you can obtain free copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.  You may also obtain BXP’s and BPLP’s reports by accessing the EDGAR database at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, or we will furnish an electronic or paper copy of these reports free of charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, Boston Properties, Inc., Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199.  “Boston Properties” is a registered trademark and the “bxp” logo is a trademark, in both cases, of BPLP.

Boston Properties Limited Partnership

BPLP is a Delaware limited partnership organized in 1997, and the entity through which BXP conducts substantially all of its business and owns, either directly or through subsidiaries, substantially all of its assets.  BXP is the sole general partner of BPLP and, as ofFebruary 22, 2018, the owner of approximately 89.6% of the economic interests in BPLP.  Economic interest was calculated as the number of common partnership units of BPLP owned by BXP as a percentage of the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of BPLP, (2) the number of common units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of BPLP, or LTIP Units, other than LTIP Units issued in the form of Multi-Year Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards (“MYLTIP Awards”) that remain subject to performance conditions, assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP Units, (3) the 2012 Outperformance Awards that were issued in the form of LTIP Units and earned as of February 6, 2015 (the “2012 OPP Units”), (4) the 2013 MYLTIP Units that were issued in the form of LTIP Units and earned as of February 4, 2016 (the “2013 MYLTIP Units”), (5) the 2014 MYLTIP









Units that were issued in the form of LTIP Units and earned as of February 3, 2017 (the “2014 MYLTIP Units”) and (6) the 2015 MYLTIP Units that were issued in the form of LTIP Units and earned as of February 4, 2018 (the “2015 MYLTIP Units”).  An LTIP Unit is generally the economic equivalent of a share of BXP’s restricted common stock, although LTIP Units issued in the form of MYLTIP Awards are only entitled to receive one-tenth (1/10th) of the regular quarterly distributions (and no special distributions) prior to being earned.  BXP’s general and limited partnership interests in BPLP entitles BXP to share in cash distributions from, and in the profits and losses of, BPLP in proportion to BXP’s percentage interest and entitles BXP to vote on all matters requiring a vote of the limited partners.

Preferred units of BPLP have the rights, preferences and other privileges set forth in an amendment to the limited partnership agreement of BPLP.  As of

December 31, 2017

and

February 22, 2018

, BPLP had one series of Preferred Units outstanding consisting of 80,000 Series B Preferred Units.  The Series B Preferred Units have a liquidation preference of $2,500 per share (or an aggregate of approximately

$193.6 million

at

December 31, 2017

and

February 22, 2018

, after deducting the underwriting discount and transaction expenses).  The Series B Preferred Units were issued by BPLP on March 27, 2013 in connection with BXP’s issuance of 80,000 shares (8,000,000 depositary shares each representing 1/100th of a share) of 5.25% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”).  BXP contributed the net proceeds from the offering to BPLP in exchange for Series B Preferred Units having rights, performance and privileges generally mirroring those of the Series B Preferred Stock.  BXP will pay cumulative cash dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock at a rate of

5.25%

per annum of the

$2,500

liquidation preference per share.  BXP may not redeem the Series B Preferred Stock prior to March 27, 2018, except in certain circumstances relating to the preservation of BXP’s REIT status.  On or after March 27, 2018, BXP may redeem the Series B Preferred Stock for a cash redemption price of

$2,500

per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends.  The Series B Preferred Stock is not redeemable by the holders, has no maturity date and is not convertible into any other security of the Company or its affiliates.



Transactions During 2017

Acquisitions

On May 15, 2017, we acquired 103 Carnegie Center located in Princeton, New Jersey for a purchase price of approximately $15.8 million in cash.  103 Carnegie Center is an approximately 96,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property.

Dispositions

For information explaining why BXP and BPLP may have different gains on sales of real estate, see the Explanatory Note that follows the cover page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

On April 19, 2017, we completed the sale of an approximately 9.5-acre parcel of land at 30 Shattuck Road located in Andover, Massachusetts for a gross sale price of $5.0 million.  Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $5.0 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $3.7 million.

On June 13, 2017, we completed the sale of 40 Shattuck Road located in Andover, Massachusetts for a gross sale price of $12.0 million.  Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $11.9 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $28,000 for BXP and approximately $0.6 million for BPLP.  40 Shattuck Road is an approximately 122,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property.

On August 30, 2017, we completed the sale of our Reston Eastgate property located in Reston, Virginia for a gross sale price of $14.0 million.  Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $13.2 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $2.8 million.  Reston Eastgate is a parcel of land containing approximately 21.7 acres located at 11011 Sunset Hills Road.

Developments/Redevelopments

As ofDecember 31, 2017, we hadtwelveproperties under construction/redevelopment comprised ofeightoffice properties andfourresidential properties, which aggregate approximately6.2 millionsquare feet.  We estimate the total investment to complete these projects, in the aggregate, is approximately$3.4 billionof which we had already invested approximately$1.7 billionas ofDecember 31, 2017.  For a detailed list of the properties under construction/redevelopment see“Liquidity and Capital Resources”within“Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”









On April 6, 2017, we commenced the construction of 145 Broadway, a build-to-suit Class A office project with approximately 485,000 net rentable square feet located in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  This property is98%leased with initial occupancy in the fourth quarter of 2019.

On May 27, 2017, we completed and fully placed in-service Reservoir Place North, a Class A office redevelopment project with approximately 73,000 net rentable square feet located in Waltham, Massachusetts.  This property is 0% leased.

On August 24, 2017, we entered into a 15-year lease with the General Services Administration under which we will develop the new headquarters for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA).  The TSA will occupy 100% of the office space of the approximately 634,000 net rentable square feet Class A office project and a parking garage at 6595 Springfield Center Drive located in Springfield, Virginia.  Concurrently with the execution of the lease, we commenced development of the project and expect the building to be available for occupancy by the fourth quarter of 2020.

On September 16, 2017, we completed and fully placed in-service 888 Boylston Street, a Class A office and retail project with approximately 417,000 net rentable square feet located in Boston, Massachusetts.  This property is 94% leased, including leases with future commencement dates.

On November 17, 2017, we partially placed in-service 191 Spring Street, a Class A office redevelopment project with approximately 171,000 net rentable square feet located in Lexington, Massachusetts. The property is 88% leased.

On November 28, 2017, we commenced construction of our 20 CityPoint development project totaling approximately 211,000 net rentable square feet of Class A office space located in Waltham, Massachusetts.  The project is 52% leased with initial occupancy expected during the third quarter of 2019.

On December 1, 2017, our consolidated entity in which we have a 95% interest partially placed in-service Salesforce Tower, a Class A office project with approximately 1,400,000 net rentable square feet located in San Francisco, California. The property is 97% leased.

On December 1, 2017, we entered into a 16-year lease with a tenant for approximately 288,000 net rentable square feet of Class A office space to be located in our 2100 Pennsylvania Avenue development project.  In 2016, we entered into a development agreement with The George Washington University to pursue the development of 2100 Pennsylvania Avenue, a Class A office property with approximately 469,000 net rentable square feet on land parcels located in Washington, DC.  The development agreement provides for the execution of a 75-year ground lease for the property upon completion of the entitlement process and relocation of existing tenants anticipated to occur in 2019.

Ground Lease Agreements

On June 29, 2017, we executed a 99-year ground lease (including extension options), with the right to purchase prior to 10 years after stabilization of the development project as defined in the lease, for land adjacent to the MacArthur BART station located in Oakland, California.  We have commenced development of a 402-unit residential building and supporting retail space on the site.

Secured Debt Transactions / Derivative and Hedging Activities

On June 7, 2017, our consolidated entity in which we have a 60% ownership interest and that owns 767 Fifth Avenue (the General Motors Building) located in New York City completed the refinancing of approximately $1.6 billion of indebtedness that had been secured by direct and indirect interests in 767 Fifth Avenue.  The new mortgage financing has a principal amount of $2.3 billion, bears interest at a fixed interest rate of 3.43% per annum and matures on June 9, 2027.  The loan requires monthly interest-only payments during the 10-year term of the loan, with the entire principal amount due at maturity.  The extinguished debt bore interest at a weighted-average rate of approximately 5.96% per annum, an effective GAAP interest rate of approximately 3.03% per annum and was scheduled to mature on October 7, 2017.  There was no prepayment penalty associated with the repayment of the prior indebtedness.  We recognized a net gain from early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $14.6 million primarily consisting of the acceleration of the remaining balance related to the historical fair value debt adjustment.









On April 24, 2017, our consolidated entity that owns 767 Fifth Avenue (the General Motors Building) located in New York City entered into an interest rate lock and commitment agreement with a group of lenders on a ten-year financing totaling$2.3 billionat a fixed interest rate of3.43%per annum.  In conjunction with the interest rate lock and commitment agreement, 767 Fifth Partners LLC, which is a subsidiary of the consolidated entity that owns 767 Fifth Avenue (the General Motors Building) terminated the forward-starting interest rate swap contracts and cash-settled the contracts by making cash payments to the counterparties aggregating approximately$14.4 million.  767 Fifth Partners LLC did not record any hedge ineffectiveness.  We are reclassifying into earnings, as an increase to interest expense, approximately$14.4 million(or approximately$1.4 millionper year over the 10-year term of the financing), resulting in an effective GAAP interest rate on the financing of approximately 3.64% per annum, inclusive of the amortization of financing costs and additional mortgage recording taxes.

Unsecured Debt Transactions

On April 24, 2017, BPLP amended and restated its unsecured revolving credit agreement (as amended and restated, the "2017 Credit Facility").  Among other things, the 2017 Credit Facility (1) increased the total commitment of the revolving line of credit (the "Revolving Facility") from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion, (2) extended the maturity date from July 26, 2018 to April 24, 2022, (3) reduced the per annum variable interest rates, and (4) added a $500.0 million delayed draw term loan facility (the "Delayed Draw Facility") that permits BPLP to draw until the first anniversary of the closing date.  Based on BPLP’s credit rating at December 31, 2017, (1) the applicable Eurocurrency margins for the Revolving Facility and Delayed Draw Facility are 87.5 basis points and 95 basis points, respectively, and (2) the facility fee on the Revolving Facility commitment is 0.15% per annum.  The Delayed Draw Facility has a fee on unused commitments equal to 0.15% per annum (See Note9to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

On December 4, 2017, BPLP completed a public offering of $850 million in aggregate principal amount of its 3.200% unsecured senior notes due 2025. The notes were priced at 99.757% of the principal amount to yield an effective rate (including financing fees) of approximately 3.350% per annum to maturity.  The notes will mature on January 15, 2025, unless earlier redeemed.  The aggregate net proceeds from the offering were approximately $841.1 million after deducting underwriting discounts and transaction expenses.

On December 17, 2017, BPLP completed the redemption of $850 million in aggregate principal amount of its 3.700% senior notes due November 15, 2018.  The redemption price was approximately $865.5 million, which included approximately $2.8 million of accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date.  Excluding the accrued and unpaid interest, the redemption price was approximately 101.49% of the principal amount being redeemed.  We recognized a loss from early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $13.9 million, which amount included the payment of the redemption premium totaling approximately $12.7 million.

Equity Transactions

On June 2, 2017, BXP renewed its “at the market” (“ATM”) stock offering program through which it may sell from time to time up to an aggregate of $600.0 million of its common stock through sales agents over a three-year period.  This program replaced BXP’s prior $600.0 million ATM stock offering program that was scheduled to expire on June 3, 2017.  BXP intends to use the net proceeds from any offering for general business purposes, which may include investment opportunities and debt reduction.  No shares of common stock have been issued under this ATM stock offering program.

During the year ended December 31, 2017, BXP acquired an aggregate of 495,637 common units of limited partnership interest, including 36,486 common units issued upon the conversion of LTIP Units, 2012 OPP Units, 2013 MYLTIP Units and 2014 MYLTIP Units presented by the holders for redemption, in exchange for an equal number of shares of BXP common stock.

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures

On July 10, 2017, we acquired an additional 0.2% interest in the unconsolidated joint venture that owns Colorado Center located in Santa Monica, California for approximately $2.1 million in cash.  Following the acquisition, we own a 50% interest in the joint venture.  We continue to account for the joint venture under the equity method of accounting as there were no changes to the rights of the members as a result of the acquisition.  On July 28, 2017, the unconsolidated joint venture obtained mortgage financing collateralized by the property totaling $550.0 million.  The mortgage financing bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.56% per annum and matures on August 9, 2027.  The loan requires interest-only payments during the 10-year term of the loan, with the entire principal amount due at maturity.  The joint venture distributed to the partners the net proceeds from the financing









totaling $502.0 million, of which our share was $251.0 million.  Colorado Center is a six-building office complex that sits on a 15-acre site and contains an aggregate of approximately 1,118,000 net rentable square feet with an underground parking garage for 3,100 vehicles.

On August 7, 2017, we entered into a joint venture with The Bernstein Companies to develop an approximately 733,000 net rentable square foot (subject to adjustment based on finalized building design) build-to-suit Class A office building and below-grade parking garage at 7750 Wisconsin Avenue in Bethesda, Maryland.  The joint venture entered into a lease agreement with an affiliate of Marriott International, Inc. under which Marriott will lease 100% of the office building and garage for a term of 20 years, and the building will serve as Marriott’s new worldwide headquarters.  Marriott has agreed to fund 100% of the related tenant improvement costs and leasing commissions for the office building.  We will serve as co-development manager for the venture and expect to commence construction in 2018.  We and The Bernstein Companies each own a 50% interest in the joint venture.  For its initial contribution, The Bernstein Companies contributed land with an initial fair value of $72.0 million and cash and improvements aggregating approximately $4.9 million.  We contributed cash and improvements aggregating approximately $20.8 million for our initial contribution, of which $11.0 million was distributed to The Bernstein Companies.  In addition, we were required to fund $25.0 million into an escrow account to be used by the joint venture to fund future development costs (See Notes5and10to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

On September 6, 2017, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest obtained construction financing with a total commitment of $204.6 million collateralized by its Hub on Causeway development project.  The construction financing bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.25% per annum and matures on September 6, 2021, with two, one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions.  The Hub on Causeway is an approximately 385,000 net rentable square foot project containing retail and office space located in Boston, Massachusetts (See Note5to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

On December 1, 2017, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest commenced construction of a residential project that we expect will contain approximately 320,000 square feet and 440 residential units at its Hub on Causeway mixed-use development project located in Boston, Massachusetts.

Stock Option and Incentive Plan

On January 25, 2017, BXP’s Compensation Committee approved a new equity-based, multi-year, long-term incentive program (the “2017 MYLTIP”) as a performance-based component of our overall compensation program.  Under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718 “Compensation - Stock Compensation,” the 2017 MYLTIP has an aggregate grant fair value of approximately $17.7 million, which amount will generally be amortized into earnings over the four-year plan period under the graded vesting method (See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

On February 3, 2017, the measurement period for our 2014 MYLTIP awards ended and, based on BXP’s relative TSR performance, the final awards were determined to be 27.7% of target or an aggregate of approximately $3.5 million(after giving effect to voluntary employee separations and the unallocated reserve).  As a result, an aggregate of 447,386 2014 MYLTIP Units that had been previously granted were automatically forfeited.





Business and Growth Strategies

Business Strategies

Our primary business objective is to maximize return on investment to provide our investors with the greatest possible total return in all points of the economic cycle. Our strategies to achieve this objective are:

•to target a few carefully selected geographic markets: Boston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC, and to be one of the leading, if not the leading, owners, developers and managers in each of those markets with a full-service office in each market providing property management, leasing, development, construction and legal expertise.  We select markets and submarkets with a diverse economic base and a deep pool of prospective tenants in various industries and where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities.  Additionally, our markets









have historically been able to recruit new talent to them and as such created job growth that results in growth in rental rates and occupancy over time.  We have explored and may continue to explore for future investment select domestic and international markets that exhibit these same traits;

•to emphasize markets and submarkets within those markets where the difficulty of receiving the necessary approvals for development and the necessary financing constitute high barriers to the creation of new supply, and where skill, financial strength and diligence are required to successfully develop, finance and manage high-quality office, research and development space, as well as selected retail and residential space;

•to take on complex, technically challenging development projects, leveraging the skills of our management team to successfully develop, acquire or reposition properties that other organizations may not have the capacity or resources to pursue;

•to own and develop high-quality real estate designed to meet the demands of today’s tenants who require sophisticated telecommunications and related infrastructure, support services, sustainable features and amenities, and to manage those facilities so as to become the landlord of choice for both existing and prospective clients;

•to opportunistically acquire assets that increase our market share in the markets in which we have chosen to concentrate, as well as potential new markets, which exhibit an opportunity to improve or preserve returns through repositioning (through a combination of capital improvements and shift in marketing strategy), changes in management focus and leasing;

•to explore joint venture opportunities with existing property owners located in desirable locations, who seek to benefit from the depth of development and management expertise we are able to provide and our access to capital, and/or to explore joint venture opportunities with strategic institutional partners, leveraging our skills as owners, operators and developers of Class A office space and mixed-use complexes;

•to pursue on a selective basis the sale of properties or interests therein, including core properties, to either (1) take advantage of the demand for our premier properties and realize the value we have created or (2) pare from our portfolio properties that we believe have slower future growth potential;

•to seek third-party development contracts to enable us to retain and utilize our existing development and construction management staff, especially when our internal development is less active or when new development is less-warranted due to market conditions; and

•to enhance our capital structure through our access to a variety of sources of capital and proactively manage our debt expirations.  In the current economic climate with relatively low interest rates we have and will continue to attempt to lower the cost of our debt capital and seek opportunities to lock in such low rates through early debt repayment, refinancings and interest rate hedges.

Growth Strategies

External Growth Strategies

We believe that our development experience, our organizational depth and our balance sheet position us to continue to selectively develop a range of property types, including high-rise urban developments, mixed-use developments (including office, residential and retail), low-rise suburban office properties and research and laboratory space, within budget and on schedule.  We believe we are also well positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions.  Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:

•our control of sites (including sites under contract or option to acquire) in our markets that could support in excess of 12.2 million additional square feet of new office, retail and residential development;

•our reputation gained through48years of successful operations and the stability and strength of our existing portfolio of properties;

•our relationships with leading national corporations, universities and public institutions, including government agencies, seeking new facilities and development services;

•our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the real estate industry;









•our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions efficiently provide comfort to domestic and foreign institutions, private investors and corporations who seek to sell commercial real estate in our market areas;

•our ability to act quickly on due diligence and financing;

•our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality real estate assets;

•our ability to procure entitlements from multiple municipalities to develop sites and attract land owners to sell or partner with us; and

•our relationship with domestic and foreign investors who seek to partner with companies like ours.

Opportunities to execute our external growth strategy fall into three categories:

•Development in selected submarkets.We believe the selected development of well-positioned office buildings, residential buildings and mixed-use complexes is justified in our markets.  We believe in acquiring land after taking into consideration timing factors relating to economic cycles and in response to market conditions that allow for its development at the appropriate time.  While we purposely concentrate in markets with high barriers-to-entry, we have demonstrated throughout our48-year history, an ability to make carefully timed land acquisitions in submarkets where we can become one of the market leaders in establishing rent and other business terms.  We believe that there are opportunities at key locations in our existing and other markets for a well-capitalized developer to acquire land with development potential.

In the past, we have been particularly successful at acquiring sites or options to purchase sites that need governmental approvals for development.  Because of our development expertise, knowledge of the governmental approval process and reputation for quality development with local government regulatory bodies, we generally have been able to secure the permits necessary to allow development and to profit from the resulting increase in land value.  We seek complex projects where we can add value through the efforts of our experienced and skilled management team leading to attractive returns on investment.

Our strong regional relationships and recognized development expertise have enabled us to capitalize on unique build-to-suit opportunities.  We intend to seek and expect to continue to be presented with such opportunities in the near term allowing us to earn relatively significant returns on these development opportunities through multiple business cycles.

•Acquisition of assets and portfolios of assets from institutions or individuals.We believe that due to our size, management strength and reputation, we are well positioned to acquire portfolios of assets or individual properties from institutions or individuals if valuations meet our criteria.  In addition, we believe that our market knowledge and our liquidity and access to capital may provide us with a competitive advantage when pursuing acquisitions.  Opportunities to acquire properties may also come through the purchase of first mortgage or mezzanine debt.  We are also able to appeal to sellers wishing to contribute on a tax-deferred basis their ownership of property for equity in a diversified real estate operating company that offers liquidity through access to the public equity markets in addition to a quarterly distribution.  Our ability to offer common and preferred units of limited partnership in BPLP to sellers who would otherwise recognize a taxable gain upon a sale of assets for cash or BXP’s common stock may facilitate this type of transaction on a tax-efficient basis.  Recent Treasury Regulations, may limit certain of the tax benefits previously available to sellers in these transactions.

•Acquisition of underperforming assets and portfolios of assets. We believe that because of our in-depth market knowledge and development experience in each of our markets, our national reputation with brokers, financial institutions, owners of real estate and others involved in the real estate market and our access to competitively-priced capital, we are well-positioned to identify and acquire existing, underperforming properties for competitive prices and to add significant additional value to such properties through our effective marketing strategies, repositioning/redevelopment expertise and a responsive property management program.









Internal Growth Strategies

We believe that opportunities will exist to increase cash flow from our existing properties through an increase in occupancy and rental rates because they are of high quality and in desirable locations.  Additionally, our markets have diversified economies that have historically experienced job growth and increased use of office space, resulting in growth in rental rates and occupancy over time.  Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is three-fold: (1) to provide high-quality property management services using our employees in order to encourage tenants to renew, expand and relocate in our properties, (2) to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house services for marketing, lease negotiation and construction of tenant and capital improvements and (3) to work with new or existing tenants with space expansion or contraction needs, leveraging our expertise and clustering of assets to maximize the cash flow from our assets.  We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:

•Cultivate existing submarkets and long-term relationships with credit tenants.In choosing locations for our properties, we have paid particular attention to transportation and commuting patterns, physical environment, adjacency to established business centers and amenities, proximity to sources of business growth and other local factors.

The average lease term of our in-place leases, including leases signed by our unconsolidated joint ventures, was approximately7.3years atDecember 31, 2017, and we continue to cultivate long-term leasing relationships with a diverse base of high-quality, financially stable tenants.  Based on leases in place atDecember 31, 2017, leases with respect to approximately 4.4% of the total square feet in our portfolio, including unconsolidated joint ventures, will expire in calendar year 2018.

•Directly manage our office properties to maximize the potential for tenant retention.We provide property management services ourselves, rather than contracting for this service, to maintain awareness of and responsiveness to tenant needs.  We and our properties also benefit from cost efficiencies produced by an experienced work force attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management and from our continuing programs to assure that our property management personnel at all levels remain aware of their important role in tenant relations.  In addition, we reinvest in our properties by adding new services and amenities that are desirable to our tenants.

•Replace tenants quickly at best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract new tenants and achieve relatively high rental and occupancy rates as a result of our well-located, well-designed and well-maintained properties, our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer expansion and relocation alternatives within our submarkets.

•Extend terms of existing leases to existing tenants prior to expiration. We have also successfully structured early tenant renewals, which have reduced the cost associated with lease downtime while securing the tenancy of our highest quality credit-worthy tenants on a long-term basis and enhancing relationships.



Policies with Respect to Certain Activities

The discussion below sets forth certain additional information regarding our investment, financing and other policies. These policies have been determined by BXP’s Board of Directors and, in general, may be amended or revised from time to time by the Board of Directors.

Investment Policies

Investments in Real Estate or Interests in Real Estate

Our investment objectives are to provide quarterly cash dividends/distributions to our securityholders and to achieve long-term capital appreciation through increases in our value.  We have not established a specific policy regarding the relative priority of these investment objectives.

We expect to continue to pursue our investment objectives primarily through the ownership of our current properties, development projects and other acquired properties.  We currently intend to continue to invest primarily in developments of properties and acquisitions of existing improved properties or properties in need of redevelopment, and acquisitions of land that we believe have development potential, primarily in our existing markets of Boston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC.  We have explored and may









continue to explore for future investment select domestic and international markets that exhibit these same traits.  Future investment or development activities will not be limited to a specified percentage of our assets.  We intend to engage in such future investment or development activities in a manner that is consistent with the maintenance of BXP’s status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  In addition, we may purchase or lease income-producing commercial and other types of properties for long-term investment, expand and improve the real estate presently owned or other properties purchased, or sell such real estate properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances warrant.  We do not have a policy that restricts the amount or percentage of assets that will be invested in any specific property, however, our investments may be restricted by our debt covenants.

We may also continue to participate with third parties in property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership.  These investments may permit us to own interests in larger assets without unduly restricting diversification and, therefore, add flexibility in structuring our portfolio.

Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such financing or indebtedness as may be incurred in connection with acquiring or refinancing these investments.  Debt service on such financing or indebtedness will have a priority over any distributions with respect to BXP’s common stock.  Investments are also subject to our policy not to be treated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”).

Investments in Real Estate Mortgages

While our current portfolio consists primarily of, and our business objectives emphasize, equity investments in commercial real estate, we may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors of BXP, invest in mortgages and other types of real estate interests consistent with BXP’s qualification as a REIT.  Investments in real estate mortgages run the risk that one or more borrowers may default under such mortgages and that the collateral securing such mortgages may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup our full investment.  We may invest in participating, convertible or traditional mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the cash flow, or any appreciation in value of the property or as an entrance to the fee ownership.

Securities of or Interests in Entities Primarily Engaged in Real Estate Activities

Subject to the percentage of ownership limitations and gross income and asset tests necessary for BXP’s REIT qualification, we also may invest in securities of other REITs, other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers, including for the purpose of exercising control over such entities.

Dispositions

Our decision to dispose or partially dispose of properties is based upon the periodic review of our portfolio and the determination by the Board of Directors of BXP that such action would be in our best interests.  Any decision to dispose of a property will be authorized by the Board of Directors of BXP or a committee thereof.  Some holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP, could incur adverse tax consequences upon the sale of certain of our properties that differ from the tax consequences to BXP.  Consequently, holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any such sale.  Such different tax treatment derives in most cases from the fact that we acquired these properties in exchange for partnership interests in contribution transactions structured to allow the prior owners to defer taxable gain.  Generally, this deferral continues so long as we do not dispose of the properties in a taxable transaction.  Unless a sale by us of these properties is structured as a like-kind exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code or in a manner that otherwise allows deferral to continue, recognition of the deferred tax gain allocable to these prior owners is generally triggered by a sale.  As ofDecember 31, 2017, we have no properties that are subject to a tax protection agreement.

Financing Policies

The agreement of limited partnership of BPLP and BXP’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur.  Further, we do not have a policy limiting the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, nor have we established any limit on the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any single property or on our portfolio as a whole.  However, our mortgages, credit facilities, joint venture agreements and unsecured debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness.  In addition, we evaluate the impact of incremental leverage on our debt metrics and the credit ratings of BPLP's publicly traded debt.









The Board of Directors of BXP will consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and when making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, including the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing, the entering into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts and the ability of particular properties and us as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service.

Policies with Respect to Other Activities

As the sole general partner of BPLP, BXP has the authority to issue additional common and preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP.  BXP has issued, and may in the future issue, common or preferred units of limited partnership interest to persons who contribute their direct or indirect interests in properties to us in exchange for such common or preferred units.  We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of issuers other than BPLP and we do not intend to do so.  At all times, we intend to make investments in such a manner as to enable BXP to maintain its qualification as a REIT, unless, due to changes in circumstances or to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder), the Board of Directors of BXP determines that it is no longer in the best interest of BXP to qualify as a REIT.  We may make loans to third parties, including, without limitation, to joint ventures in which we participate or in connection with the disposition of a property.  We intend to make investments in such a way that we will not be treated as an investment company under the 1940 Act.  Our policies with respect to these and other activities may be reviewed and modified or amended from time to time by the Board of Directors of BXP.

Sustainability

As one of the largest public owners, managers and developers of office buildings in the United States, we actively work to promote our growth and operations in a sustainable and responsible manner across our five regions.  Our sustainability strategy is broadly focused on the economic, social and environmental aspects of our activities, which include the design and construction of our new developments and the operation of our existing buildings.  We are focused on creating healthy workspaces and high performance properties while simultaneously mitigating operational costs and the potential external impacts of energy, water, waste and greenhouse gas emissions.  To that end, we have publicly adopted long-term energy, emissions, water and waste goals that establish aggressive reduction targets.  As a company with a core strategy of long-term ownership, we are committed to charitable giving, volunteerism and public realm investments that make a positive impact on the communities in which we conduct business.  Through these efforts, we demonstrate that operating and developing commercial real estate can be conducted with a conscious regard for the environment while mutually benefiting our tenants, investors, employees and the communities in which we operate.

We have been recognized as an industry leader in sustainability.  In 2017, BXP ranked among the top 5% of 823 real estate companies in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (“GRESB”) assessment.  2017 was the sixth straight year that BXP has ranked in the top quartile of GRESB assessment participants, earning another “Green Star” recognition and a GRESB 5-star Rating.  In 2014, 2015 and 2017 BXP was selected by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“Nareit”) as a Leader in the Light Award winner.  Nareit’s annual Leader in the Light Awards honor Nareit member companies that have demonstrated superior and sustained sustainability practices.

We are committed to transparent reporting of environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) sustainability indicators.  BXP publishes an annual sustainability report that is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) reporting framework.  Our sustainability strategy, key performance indicators, achievements and sustainability reports are available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Sustainability.”  Except for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

We compete in the leasing of office, retail and residential space with a considerable number of other real estate companies, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us.  In addition, our hotel property competes for guests with other hotels, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us and to the manager of our one hotel, Marriott International, Inc.









Principal factors of competition in our primary business of owning, acquiring and developing office properties are the quality of properties, leasing terms (including rent and other charges and allowances for tenant improvements), attractiveness and convenience of location, the quality and breadth of tenant services and amenities provided, and reputation as an owner and operator of quality office properties in the relevant market.  Additionally, our ability to compete depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, investment alternatives, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, utilities, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.

In addition, we currently havesixresidential properties (includingfourunder construction) and may in the future decide to acquire or develop additional residential properties.  As an owner, we will also face competition for prospective residents from other operators/owners whose properties may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the resident seeks.  We will also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent.  Because the scale of our residential portfolio is relatively small, we expect to continue to retain third parties to manage our residential properties.

Our Hotel Property

We operate our hotel property through a taxable REIT subsidiary.  The taxable REIT subsidiary, a wholly-owned subsidiary of BPLP, is the lessee pursuant to a lease for the hotel property.  As lessor, BPLP is entitled to a percentage of gross receipts from the hotel property.  The hotel lease is intended to provide the economic benefits of ownership of the underlying real estate to flow to us as rental income, while our taxable REIT subsidiary earns the profit from operating the property as a hotel.  Marriott International, Inc. continues to manage the hotel property under the Marriott name and under terms of the existing management agreements.  Marriott has been engaged under a separate long-term incentive management agreement to operate and manage the hotel on behalf of the taxable REIT subsidiary.

Corporate Governance

BXP is currently governed by an eleven-member Board of Directors.  The current members of the Board of Directors of BXP are Bruce W. Duncan, Karen E. Dykstra, Carol B. Einiger, Dr. Jacob A. Frenkel, Joel I. Klein, Douglas T. Linde, Matthew J. Lustig, Alan J. Patricof, Owen D. Thomas, Martin Turchin and David A. Twardock.  All directors of BXP stand for election for one-year terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders.

Joel I. Klein currently serves as the Lead Independent Director of BXP's Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors of BXP also has Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees.  The membership of each of these committees is described below.

Independent DirectorAuditCompensationNominating andCorporate GovernanceBruce W. DuncanXKaren E. DykstraXCarol B. EinigerX*Dr. Jacob A. FrenkelX*Joel I. Klein**XMatthew J. LustigXAlan J. PatricofXXMartin TurchinXDavid A. TwardockX*X



X=Committee member, *=Chair, **=Lead Independent Director











BXP has the following corporate governance documents and procedures in place:

•The Board of Directors has adopted charters for each of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees.  A copy of each of these charters is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Committees and Charters.”

•The Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Guidelines.”

•The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs business decisions made and actions taken by BXP’s directors, officers and employees.  A copy of this code is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Code of Conduct and Ethics.” BXP intends to disclose on this website any amendment to, or waiver of, any provisions of this Code applicable to the directors and executive officers of BXP that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange.

•The Board of Directors has established an ethics reporting system that employees may use to anonymously report possible violations of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, including concerns regarding questionable accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, by telephone or over the internet.

•The Board of Directors has adopted a Policy on our Political Spending, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Policy on Political Spending.”

Recent Tax Legislation Affecting BXP and BPLP



Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017



The “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (the “TCJA”), generally applicable for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, made significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), including a number of provisions of the Code that affect the taxation of businesses and their owners, including REITs and their stockholders. Among other changes, these include the following:



•For tax years beginning before January 1, 2026, non-corporate taxpayers are permitted to take a deduction for certain pass-through business income, including dividends received from REITs that are not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income, subject to certain limitations.



•The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for corporations has been reduced from 35% to 21%, and corporate alternative minimum tax has been eliminated for corporations, which would generally reduce the amount of U.S. federal income tax payable by our taxable REIT subsidiaries and by us to the extent we were subject corporate U.S. federal income tax (for example, if we distributed less than 100% of our taxable income or recognized built-in gains in assets acquired from C corporations).   In addition, the maximum withholding rate on distributions by us to non-U.S. stockholders that are treated as attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a U.S. real property interest is reduced from 35% to 21%.



•Certain new limitations on the deductibility of interest expense now apply, which limitations may affect the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by us or our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Alternatively, we may be able to avoid the new limitations on interest expense by irrevocably electing to treat an investment as an “electing real property trade or business.” As a consequence of making such election, we would be required to use an alternative depreciation system with generally longer recovery periods. We will determine whether to make such an election for any investment held through an entity we control.



•Certain new limitations on net operating losses now apply, which limitations may affect net operating losses generated by us or our taxable REIT subsidiaries.











•New accounting rules generally require us to recognize certain income items for federal income tax purposes no later than when we take the item into account for financial statement purposes, which may accelerate our recognition of certain income items.



This summary does not purport to be a detailed discussion of the changes to U.S. federal income tax laws as a result of the enactment of the TCJA.  Technical corrections or other amendments to the TCJA or administrative guidance interpreting the TCJA may be forthcoming at any time.  We cannot predict the long-term effect of the TCJA or any future law changes on REITs or their stockholders.  Investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the effect of the TCJA based on their particular circumstances.





