Item 1.Business



General



As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to Boston Properties, Inc., a
Delaware corporation organized in 1997, individually or together with its subsidiaries, including Boston Properties Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, and our predecessors. We are a fully integrated, self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or “REIT,” and one of the largest owners and developers of office properties in the United States.



Our properties are concentrated in five markets—Boston, Washington, DC, midtown Manhattan, San Francisco and Princeton, NJ. We
conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiary, Boston Properties Limited Partnership. At December 31, 2010, we owned or had interests in 146 properties, totaling approximately 39.9 million net rentable square feet,
including five properties under construction totaling approximately 2.0 million net rentable square feet. In addition, we had structured parking for approximately 40,664 vehicles containing approximately 13.7 million square feet. Our
properties consisted of:



•140 office properties including 121 Class A office properties (including three properties under construction) and 19 Office/Technical properties;



•one hotel;



•three retail properties; and



•two residential properties (both of which are under construction).



We own or control undeveloped land totaling approximately 513.3 acres, which could support approximately
12.8 million square feet of additional development. In addition, we have a noncontrolling interest in the Boston Properties Office Value-Added Fund, L.P., which we refer to as the “Value-Added Fund,” which is a strategic partnership
with two institutional investors through which we have pursued the acquisition of assets within our existing markets that have deficiencies in property characteristics that provide an opportunity to create value through repositioning, refurbishment
or renovation. Our investments through the Value-Added Fund are not included in our portfolio information tables or any other portfolio level statistics. At December 31, 2010, the Value-Added Fund had investments in an office property in
Chelmsford, Massachusetts and complexes in Mountain View, California.



We consider Class A office properties to be centrally-located buildings that are professionally managed and maintained, attract high-quality tenants and command upper-tier rental rates, and that are
modern structures or have been modernized to compete with newer buildings. We consider Office/Technical properties to be properties that support office, research and development, laboratory and other technical uses. Our definitions of Class A
office and Office/Technical properties may be different than those used by other companies.



We are a full-service real estate company, with substantial in-house expertise and resources in acquisitions,
development, financing, capital markets, construction management, property management, marketing, leasing, accounting, tax and legal services. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 680 employees. Our thirty-four senior officers have an
average of twenty-six years experience in the real estate industry, including an average of sixteen years of experience with us. Our principal executive office and Boston regional office is located at The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street,
Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199 and our telephone number is (617) 236-3300. In addition, we have regional offices at 505 9thStreet, NW, Washington, DC 20004; 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022; Four Embarcadero Center, San
Francisco, California 94111; and 302 Carnegie Center, Princeton, New Jersey 08540.



Our Web site is located at http://www.bostonproperties.com. On our Web site, you can obtain a free copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments







to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The name “Boston Properties” and our logo (consisting of a stylized “b”) are registered service marks of Boston Properties Limited Partnership.



Boston Properties Limited Partnership



Boston Properties Limited Partnership,
or BPLP or our Operating Partnership, is a Delaware limited partnership, and the entity through which we conduct substantially all of our business and own, either directly or through subsidiaries, substantially all of our assets. We are the sole
general partner and, as of February 18, 2011, the owner of approximately 86.3% of the economic interests in BPLP. Economic interest was calculated as the number of common partnership units of BPLP owned by the Company as a percentage of the sum
of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of BPLP, (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of outstanding preferred partnership units of BPLP and (3) the number of common
units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of BPLP, or LTIP Units, other than LTIP Units issued in the form of 2011 Outperformance Awards (“2011 OPP Awards”), assuming all conditions have been met for
the conversion of the LTIP Units. An LTIP Unit is generally the economic equivalent of a share of our restricted common stock, although LTIP Units issued in the form of 2011 OPP Awards are only entitled to receive one-tenth (1/10

th









Preferred Units that were originally issued. The holders had the right to have their Series Two Preferred Units redeemed for cash as of May 12, 2009 and May 12, 2010, although no holder
exercised such right. BPLP also has the right, under certain conditions and at certain times, to redeem Series Two Preferred Units for cash and to convert into OP Units any Series Two Preferred Units that are not redeemed when they are eligible for
redemption.



Transactions During 2010



Acquisitions



On July 1, 2010, we acquired the mortgage loan
collateralized by a land parcel zoned for residential use located in Reston, Virginia for approximately $20.3 million. In connection with the acquisition of the loan, we entered into a forbearance agreement pursuant to which we obtained the fee
interest in the land by deed in lieu of foreclosure.



On September 24, 2010, we acquired fee title to 510 Madison Avenue in New York City for a purchase price of approximately $287.0 million. In connection with the acquisition, we also incurred
approximately $1.5 million of acquisition costs that were expensed during the year ended December 31, 2010. Previously, on August 10, 2010, we had acquired the junior mezzanine loan that was secured by a pledge of a subordinate ownership
interest in the property for a purchase price of approximately $22.5 million. 510 Madison Avenue is an approximately 347,000 square foot Class A office tower, which is currently under development. In connection with the acquisition, we assumed
the mortgage loan totaling approximately $202.6 million and, at closing, we caused the assignment of the mortgage to a new lender and subsequently increased the amount borrowed to $267.5 million. This amount is fully secured by cash deposits
included within “Cash Held in Escrows” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mortgage financing bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 0.30% per annum and matures on February 24, 2012.



On September 27, 2010, we entered into an agreement to
acquire Bay Colony Corporate Center in Waltham, Massachusetts. On February 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $185.0 million. The purchase price consisted of approximately $41.1 million of
cash and the assumption of approximately $143.9 million of indebtedness. The assumed debt is a securitized senior mortgage loan that bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.53% per annum and matures on June 11, 2012. The loan requires
interest-only payments with a balloon payment due at maturity. Bay Colony Corporate Center is an approximately 1,000,000 net rentable square foot, four-building Class A office park situated on a 58-acre site in Waltham, Massachusetts.



On December 29, 2010, we completed the
acquisition of the John Hancock Tower and Garage in Boston, Massachusetts for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $930.0 million. The purchase price consisted of approximately $289.5 million of cash and the assumption of approximately
$640.5 million of indebtedness. The assumed debt is a securitized senior mortgage loan that bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.68% per annum and matures on January 6, 2017. The loan requires interest-only payments with a balloon
payment due at maturity. In connection with the acquisition, we incurred an aggregate of approximately $0.9 million of acquisition costs that were expensed during the year ended December 31, 2010. The John Hancock Tower is an iconic 62-story,
approximately 1,700,000 rentable square foot office tower located in the heart of Boston’s Back Bay neighborhood. The garage is an eight-level, 2,013 space parking facility. The seller has agreed to (1) fund the cost of and complete
certain capital projects and (2) fund the cost of certain tenant improvements, both of which are currently underway, totaling approximately $46.0 million. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.







Dispositions



On April 14, 2008, we sold a parcel of land located in
Washington, DC for approximately $33.7 million. We had previously entered into a development management agreement with the buyer to develop a Class A office property on the parcel totaling approximately 165,000 net rentable square feet. Due to
our involvement in the construction of the project, the gain on sale was deferred and has been recognized over the project construction period generally based on the percentage of total project costs incurred to estimated total project costs. During
the year ended December 31, 2010, we completed construction of the project and recognized the remaining gain on sale totaling approximately $1.8 million. We have recognized a cumulative gain on sale of approximately $23.4 million.



On May 5, 2010, we satisfied the requirements of our
master lease agreement related to the 2006 sale of 280 Park Avenue in New York City, resulting in the recognition of the remaining deferred gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $1.0 million. Following the satisfaction of the master
lease agreement, the buyer terminated the property management and leasing agreement entered into at the time of the sale, resulting in the recognition of non-cash deferred management fees totaling approximately $12.2 million.



Developments



On February 6, 2009, we announced that we were
suspending construction on our 1,000,000 square foot project at 250 West 55th Street in New York City. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized costs aggregating approximately $27.8 million related to the suspension of
development, which amount included a $20.0 million contractual amount due pursuant to a lease agreement. During December 2009, we completed the construction of foundations and steel/deck to grade to facilitate a restart of construction in the future
and as a result ceased interest capitalization on the project. On January 19, 2010, we paid $12.8 million related to the termination of the lease agreement. As a result, we recognized approximately $7.2 million of income during the year ended
December 31, 2010.



On June 1, 2010, we
placed in-service Weston Corporate Center, an approximately 356,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property located in Weston, Massachusetts. The property is 100% leased.



On October 20, 2010, we closed a transaction with a financial institution (the “HTC Investor”)
related to the historic rehabilitation of the residential component of our Atlantic Wharf development in Boston, Massachusetts (the “residential project”). The residential project is expected to result in the development of approximately
86 units of residential rental apartments and approximately 10,000 square feet of retail space. Because, as a REIT, we may not take full advantage of available historic tax credits, we admitted the HTC Investor as a partner in the residential
project. The HTC Investor has agreed to contribute an aggregate of approximately $14 million to the project in three installments in 2010 and 2011, subject to our achievement of certain conditions that include construction milestones and our
compliance with the federal rehabilitation regulations. In exchange for its contribution, the HTC Investor will receive substantially all of the benefits derived from the tax credits.







As of December 31, 2010, we had five projects under construction comprised of three
office properties and two residential properties, which aggregate approximately 2.0 million square feet. We estimate the total investment to complete these projects, in the aggregate, to be approximately $1.4 billion of which we had already
invested approximately $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2010. The investment through December 31, 2010 and estimated total investment for our properties under construction as of December 31, 2010 are detailed below (in thousands):



Construction PropertiesEstimatedStabilization
DateLocationInvestmentto Date(1)Estimated TotalInvestment(1)OfficeAtlantic WharfFirst Quarter, 2012Boston, MA$503,799$552,9002200 Pennsylvania AvenueSecond Quarter, 2012Washington, DC137,291230,000510 Madison AvenueFourth Quarter, 2012New York, NY319,071375,000Total Office Properties under Construction$960,161$1,157,900ResidentialAtlantic Wharf – Residential (86 units)Second Quarter, 2012Boston, MA$35,495$47,100Atlantic Wharf – Retail(2)2221 I Street, NW—Residential (335 units)Third Quarter, 2012Washington, DC81,874150,0002221 Street, NW—RetailTotal Residential Properties under Construction$117,369$197,100Total Properties under Construction$1,077,530$1,355,000



(1)Includes net revenue during lease up period and approximately $51.6 million of construction and leasing commission accruals.

(2)Project costs includes residential and retail components. Estimated total investment is net of $12.0 million of anticipated net proceeds from the sale of Federal
historic tax credits.



Secured
Debt Transactions



On June 15, 2010, we
used available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our Eight Cambridge Center property located in Cambridge, Massachusetts totaling approximately $22.6 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 7.73% per annum
and was scheduled to mature on July 15, 2010. There was no prepayment penalty.



On July 1, 2010, we used available cash to repay the mortgage loans collateralized by our 202, 206 & 214 Carnegie Center properties located in Princeton, New Jersey totaling approximately
$55.8 million. The mortgage loans bore interest at a fixed rate of 8.13% per annum and were scheduled to mature on October 1, 2010. There were no prepayment penalties.



On August 1, 2010, we modified the mortgage loan
collateralized by our Reservoir Place property located in Waltham, Massachusetts. The mortgage loan totaling $50.0 million bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 3.85% per annum and matures on July 30, 2014. The modification
reduced the interest rate to a variable rate equal to Eurodollar plus 2.20% per annum. All other terms of the mortgage loan remain unchanged.



On September 24, 2010, in connection with the acquisition of 510 Madison Avenue in New York City, we assumed the mortgage loan
totaling approximately $202.6 million and at closing caused the assignment of the mortgage to a new lender and subsequently increased the amount borrowed to $267.5 million. This amount is







fully secured by cash deposits included within “Cash Held in Escrows” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The mortgage financing bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus
0.30% per annum and matures on February 24, 2012.



On October 1, 2010, we modified our construction loan facility collateralized by our Atlantic Wharf development project in Boston, Massachusetts. The construction loan facility bears interest at a
variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 3.00% per annum and matures on April 21, 2012 with two, one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions. The modification consisted of releasing from collateral the residential component and
ground floor retail included in the “Russia Building” and reducing the loan commitment from $215.0 million to $192.5 million. All other terms of the mortgage loan remain unchanged. We have not drawn any amounts under the facility.



On October 20, 2010, we used available cash
to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our South of Market property located in Reston, Virginia totaling approximately $188.0 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.00% per annum and was
scheduled to mature on November 21, 2010. There was no prepayment penalty.



On October 20, 2010, we used available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our Democracy Tower property located in Reston, Virginia totaling approximately $59.8 million. The mortgage
loan bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.75% per annum and was scheduled to mature on December 19, 2010. There was no prepayment penalty.



On November 1, 2010, we used available cash to repay the
mortgage loan collateralized by our 10 & 20 Burlington Mall Road property located in Burlington, Massachusetts and 91 Hartwell Avenue property located in Lexington, Massachusetts totaling approximately $32.8 million. The mortgage loan
bore interest at a fixed rate of 7.25% per annum and was scheduled to mature on October 1, 2011. We paid a prepayment penalty totaling approximately $0.3 million associated with the repayment.



On November 1, 2010, we used available cash to repay the
mortgage loan collateralized by our 1330 Connecticut Avenue property located in Washington, DC totaling approximately $45.0 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 7.58% per annum and was scheduled to mature on
February 26, 2011. There was no prepayment penalty.



On December 23, 2010, we used available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our Wisconsin Place Office property totaling approximately $97.2 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at
a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.10% per annum and was scheduled to mature on January 29, 2011. There was no prepayment penalty.



On December 29, 2010, in connection with our acquisition of the John Hancock Tower and Garage in Boston, Massachusetts, we assumed
the mortgage loan collateralized by the property totaling approximately $640.5 million. The assumed debt is a securitized senior mortgage loan that requires interest-only payments with a balloon payment due at maturity. Pursuant to the provisions of
Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 805, the assumed mortgage loan, which bears contractual interest at a fixed rate of 5.68% per annum and matures on January 6, 2017, was recorded at its fair value of approximately $663.4
million using an effective interest rate of 5.00% per annum.



Unsecured Senior Notes



On April 19, 2010, our Operating Partnership completed a public offering of $700.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5.625% senior notes due 2020. The notes were priced at 99.891% of the
principal amount to yield 5.708% to maturity. The aggregate net proceeds to our Operating Partnership, after deducting underwriter discounts and offering expenses, were approximately $693.5 million. The notes mature on November 15, 2020, unless
earlier redeemed. On April 7, 2010, in connection with the offering, we entered into







two treasury lock agreements to fix the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate (which was used as a reference security in pricing) at 3.873% per annum on notional amounts aggregating $350.0 million. We
subsequently cash-settled the treasury lock agreements and received approximately $0.4 million, which amount will be recognized as a reduction to our interest expense over the term of the notes.



On November 18, 2010, our Operating Partnership
completed a public offering of $850.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its 4.125% senior notes due 2021. The notes were priced at 99.26% of the principal amount to yield 4.289% to maturity. The aggregate net proceeds to our Operating
Partnership, after deducting underwriter discounts and offering expenses, were approximately $836.9 million. The notes mature on May 15, 2021, unless earlier redeemed.



On December 12, 2010, our Operating Partnership
completed the redemption of $700.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its 6.25% senior notes due 2013. The redemption price was determined in accordance with the applicable indenture and was approximately $793.1 million. The redemption price
included approximately $17.9 million of accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date. Excluding such accrued and unpaid interest, the redemption price was approximately 110.75% of the principal amount being redeemed. In
addition, on November 29, 2010, we entered into two treasury lock agreements to fix the yield on the U.S. Treasury issue used in determining the redemption price on notional amounts aggregating $700.0 million. On December 9, 2010, we
cash-settled the treasury lock agreements and paid approximately $2.1 million. As a result of the payment of the redemption premium, the settlement of the treasury locks and the write-off of deferred financing costs, we recognized an aggregate loss
on early extinguishment of debt of approximately $79.3 million. Following the partial redemption, there is an aggregate of $225.0 million of these notes outstanding.



Unsecured Exchangeable Senior Notes



During the year ended December 31, 2010, our Operating
Partnership repurchased approximately $236.3 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.875% exchangeable senior notes due 2037, which the holders may require our Operating Partnership to repurchase in February 2012, for approximately
$236.6 million. The repurchased notes had an aggregate allocated liability and equity value of approximately $225.7 million and $0.4 million, respectively, at the time of repurchase resulting in the recognition of a loss on early
extinguishment of debt of approximately $10.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. There remains an aggregate of approximately $626.2 million of these notes outstanding.



Unsecured Line of Credit



Effective as of August 3, 2010, the maturity date under
our Operating Partnership’s $1.0 billion unsecured line of credit was extended to August 3, 2011. All other terms of the unsecured line of credit remain unchanged.



Equity Transactions



During the year ended December 31, 2010, we acquired an
aggregate of 591,900 common units of limited partnership interest, including 99,139 common units issued upon the conversion of LTIP units, presented by the holders for redemption, in exchange for an equal number of shares of common stock. During the
year ended December 31, 2010, we issued 638,957 shares of common stock as a result of stock options being exercised.



Noncontrolling interests in property partnerships



On December 23, 2010, we acquired the outside
member’s 33.3% equity interest in our consolidated joint venture entity that owns the Wisconsin Place Office property located in Chevy Chase, Maryland for cash of approximately $25.5 million. The acquisition was accounted for as an equity
transaction. The difference between the purchase price and the carrying value of the outside member’s equity interest, totaling approximately $19.1 million, reduced additional paid-in capital in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.









Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures





On April 1, 2010, we acquired a 30% interest in a joint venture entity that owns 500 North Capitol Street, NW located in Washington,
DC. 500 North Capitol Street is an approximately 176,000 net rentable square foot office property that is fully-leased to a single tenant through March 25, 2011. The joint venture currently intends to remove the property from service and
redevelop the property following the lease expiration. On April 1, 2010, the joint venture entity refinanced at maturity the mortgage loan collateralized by the property totaling approximately $26.8 million. The new mortgage loan totaling $22.0
million bears interest at a variable rate equal to the greater of (1) the prime rate, as defined in the loan agreement, or (2) 5.75% per annum. The loan currently bears interest at 5.75% per annum and matures on March 31,
2013. Our investment in the joint venture totaling approximately $1.9 million was financed with cash contributions to the venture totaling approximately $1.4 million and the issuance to the seller of 5,906 OP Units.



On April 9, 2010, a joint venture in which we have a 60%
interest refinanced its mortgage loan collateralized by Two Grand Central Tower located in New York City. The previous mortgage loan totaling $190.0 million bore interest at a fixed rate of 5.10% per annum and was scheduled to mature on
July 11, 2010. The new mortgage loan totaling $180.0 million bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.00% per annum and matures on April 10, 2015. In connection with the refinancing, the joint venture repaid $10.0 million of the previous
mortgage loan utilizing cash contributions from the joint venture’s partners on a pro rata basis.



On April 16, 2010, a joint venture in which we have a 51% interest refinanced its mortgage loan collateralized by Metropolitan Square
located in Washington, DC. The previous mortgage loan totaling approximately $123.6 million bore interest at a fixed rate of 8.23% per annum and was scheduled to mature on May 1, 2010. The new mortgage loan totaling $175.0 million bears
interest at a fixed rate of 5.75% per annum and matures on May 5, 2020. On April 26, 2010, the joint venture distributed excess loan proceeds to the partners totaling approximately $49.0 million, of which our share was approximately
$25.0 million.



On June 15, 2010, a joint
venture in which we have a 50% interest repaid the mortgage loan collateralized by land parcels at its site at Eighth Avenue and 46th Street in New York City utilizing cash contributions from the joint venture’s partners on a pro rata basis. In
addition, the joint venture completed an exchange of land parcels with a third party and received land parcels and development rights valued at approximately $6.4 million in exchange for a land parcel valued at approximately $5.4 million and cash of
approximately $1.0 million.









On September 12, 2010, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest exercised its
right to extend the maturity date of its mortgage loan collateralized by Annapolis Junction located in Annapolis, Maryland. The mortgage loan totaling $42.7 million now matures on September 12, 2011 and bears interest at a variable rate equal
to LIBOR plus 1.00% per annum. The mortgage loan includes an additional one-year extension option, subject to certain conditions. All other terms of the mortgage loan remain unchanged.



On September 20, 2010, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest refinanced its mortgage loan
collateralized by Market Square North located in Washington, DC. The previous mortgage loan totaling approximately $81.1 million bore interest at a fixed rate of 7.70% per annum and was scheduled to mature on December 19, 2010. The new
mortgage loan totaling $130.0 million bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.85% per annum and matures on October 1, 2020. On October 22, 2010, the joint venture distributed excess loan proceeds to the partners totaling approximately
$40.8 million, of which our share was approximately $20.4 million.



On October 21, 2010, our Value-Added Fund conveyed the fee simple title to its One and Two Circle Star Way properties and paid $3.8 million to the lender in satisfaction of its outstanding
obligations under the existing mortgage loan and guarantee. Our Value-Added Fund recognized a net gain on early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $17.9 million. We had previously recognized impairment losses on our investment in the
Value-Added Fund. The mortgage loan had an outstanding principal amount of $42.0 million, bore interest at a fixed rate of 6.57% per annum and was scheduled to mature on September 1, 2013. The Value-Added Fund had guaranteed the payment of
(1) an aggregate of approximately $5.0 million of unfunded tenant improvement costs and leasing commissions and (2) one year of real estate taxes. We had an effective ownership interest of 25% in the One and Two Circle Star Way properties.



On December 23, 2010, we sold our 5.0%
equity interest in our unconsolidated joint venture entity that owned the retail portion of the Wisconsin Place mixed-use property for approximately $1.4 million of cash, resulting in the recognition of a gain of approximately $0.6 million, which
amount is included within income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures within our Consolidated Statements of Operations.







Business and Growth Strategies



Business Strategy



Our primary business objective is to maximize return on
investment so as to provide our investors with the greatest possible total return. Our strategy to achieve this objective is:



•to concentrate on a few carefully selected geographic markets, including Boston, Washington, DC, midtown Manhattan, San Francisco and Princeton, NJ,
and to be one of the leading, if not the leading, owners and developers in each of those markets. We select markets and submarkets where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities;



•to emphasize markets and submarkets within those markets where the lack of available sites and the difficulty of receiving the necessary approvals for
development and the necessary financing constitute high barriers to the creation of new supply, and where skill, financial strength and diligence are required to successfully develop, finance and manage high-quality office, research and development
space, as well as selected retail and residential space;



•to take on complex, technically challenging projects, leveraging the skills of our management team to successfully develop, acquire or reposition
properties that other organizations may not have the capacity or resources to pursue;



•to concentrate on high-quality real estate designed to meet the demands of today’s tenants who require sophisticated telecommunications and
related infrastructure and support services, and to manage those facilities so as to become the landlord of choice for both existing and prospective clients;



•to opportunistically acquire assets which increase our penetration in the markets in which we have chosen to concentrate and which exhibit an
opportunity to improve or preserve returns through repositioning (through a combination of capital improvements and shift in marketing strategy), changes in management focus and re-leasing as existing leases terminate;



•to explore joint venture opportunities primarily with existing property owners located in desirable locations, who seek to benefit from the depth of
development and management expertise we are able to provide and our access to capital, and/or to explore joint venture opportunities with strategic institutional partners, leveraging our skills as owners, operators and developers of Class A
office space, as well as partners with expertise in mixed-use opportunities;



•to pursue on a selective basis the sale of properties, including core properties, to take advantage of our value creation and the demand for our
premier properties;



•to seek third-party development contracts, which can be a significant source of revenue and enable us to retain and utilize our existing development
and construction management staff, especially when our internal development is less active or when new development is less-warranted due to market conditions; and



•to enhance our capital structure through our access to a variety of sources of capital and proactively manage our debt expirations.



Growth Strategies



External Growth



We believe that our development experience and our
organizational depth position us to continue to selectively develop a range of property types, including low-rise suburban office properties, high-rise urban developments, mixed-use developments (including residential) and research and laboratory
space, within budget and on schedule. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:



•our control of sites (including sites under contract or option to acquire) in our markets that could support approximately 12.8 million additional
square feet of new office, retail, hotel and residential development;







•our reputation gained through 41 years of successful operations and the stability and strength of our existing portfolio of properties;



•our relationships with leading national corporations, universities and public institutions seeking new facilities and development services;



•our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the real estate industry;



•our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions efficiently provides comfort to domestic and foreign institutions, private investors and
corporations who seek to sell commercial real estate in our market areas;



•our ability to act quickly on due diligence and financing; and



•our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality real estate assets.



Opportunities to execute our external growth strategy fall
into three categories:



•Development in selected submarkets.We believe the additional development of well-positioned office buildings could be justified in many of our
submarkets. We believe in acquiring land after taking into consideration timing factors relating to economic cycles and in response to market conditions that allow for its development at the appropriate time. While we purposely concentrate in
markets with high barriers-to-entry, we have demonstrated throughout our 41-year history, an ability to make carefully timed land acquisitions in submarkets where we can become one of the market leaders in establishing rent and other business terms.
We believe that there are opportunities at key locations in our existing and other markets for a well-capitalized developer to acquire land with development potential.



In the past, we have been particularly successful at acquiring sites or options to purchase sites that need
governmental approvals for development. Because of our development expertise, knowledge of the governmental approval process and reputation for quality development with local government regulatory bodies, we generally have been able to secure the
permits necessary to allow development and to profit from the resulting increase in land value. We seek complex projects where we can add value through the efforts of our experienced and skilled management team leading to attractive returns on
investment.



Our strong regional relationships
and recognized development expertise have enabled us to capitalize on unique build-to-suit opportunities. We intend to seek and expect to continue to be presented with such opportunities in the near term allowing us to earn relatively significant
returns on these development opportunities through multiple business cycles.





•



Acquisition of assets and portfolios of assets from institutions or individuals.







•Acquisition of underperforming assets and portfolios of assets. We believe that because of our in-depth market knowledge and development
experience in each of our markets, our national reputation with brokers, financial institutions and others involved in the real estate market and our access to competitively-priced capital, we are well-positioned to identify and acquire existing,
underperforming properties for competitive prices and to add significant additional value to such properties through our effective marketing strategies and a responsive property management program. We have developed this strategy and program for our
existing portfolio, where we provide high-quality property management services using our own employees in order to encourage tenants to renew, expand and relocate in our properties. We are able to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in
replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house and third-party vendors’ services for marketing, including calls and presentations to prospective tenants, print advertisements, lease negotiation and construction of tenant improvements.
Our tenants benefit from cost efficiencies produced by our experienced work force, which is attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management.



Internal Growth



We believe that opportunities will exist to increase cash
flow from our existing properties because they are of high quality and in desirable locations within markets where, in general, the creation of new supply is limited by the lack of available sites and the difficulty of obtaining the necessary
approvals for development on vacant land and financing. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is three-fold: (1) to provide high-quality property management services using our employees in order to encourage tenants
to renew, expand and relocate in our properties, (2) to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house services for marketing, lease negotiation and construction of tenant improvements
and (3) to work with new or existing tenants with space expansion or contraction needs maximizing the cash flow from our assets. We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:



•Cultivate existing submarkets and long-term relationships with credit tenants.In choosing locations for our properties, we have paid particular
attention to transportation and commuting patterns, physical environment, adjacency to established business centers, proximity to sources of business growth and other local factors.



We had an average lease term of 7.1 years at
December 31, 2010 and continue to cultivate long-term leasing relationships with a diverse base of high-quality, financially stable tenants. Based on leases in place at December 31, 2010, leases with respect to 6.9% of the total square
feet in our portfolio will expire in calendar year 2011.



•Directly manage properties to maximize the potential for tenant retention.We provide property management services ourselves, rather than
contracting for this service, to maintain awareness of and responsiveness to tenant needs. We and our properties also benefit from cost efficiencies produced by an experienced work force attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management and
from our continuing programs to assure that our property management personnel at all levels remain aware of their important role in tenant relations.



•Replace tenants quickly at best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract
new tenants and achieve relatively high rental rates as a result of our well-located, well-designed and well-maintained properties, our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer expansion
and relocation alternatives within our submarkets.



•Extend terms of existing leases to existing tenants prior to expiration. We have also successfully structured early tenant renewals, which have
reduced the cost associated with lease downtime while securing the tenancy of our highest quality credit-worthy tenants on a long-term basis and enhancing relationships.







Policies with Respect to Certain Activities



The discussion below sets forth certain additional information regarding our investment, financing and other
policies. These policies have been determined by our Board of Directors and, in general, may be amended or revised from time to time by our Board of Directors.



Investment Policies



Investments in Real Estate or Interests in Real Estate



Our investment objectives are to provide quarterly cash
dividends to our securityholders and to achieve long-term capital appreciation through increases in the value of Boston Properties, Inc. We have not established a specific policy regarding the relative priority of these investment objectives.



We expect to continue to pursue our investment
objectives primarily through the ownership of our current properties, development projects and other acquired properties. We currently intend to continue to invest primarily in developments of properties and acquisitions of existing improved
properties or properties in need of redevelopment, and acquisitions of land that we believe have development potential, primarily in our markets—Boston, Washington, DC, midtown Manhattan, San Francisco and Princeton, NJ. Future investment or
development activities will not be limited to a specified percentage of our assets. We intend to engage in such future investment or development activities in a manner that is consistent with the maintenance of our status as a REIT for federal
income tax purposes. In addition, we may purchase or lease income-producing commercial and other types of properties for long-term investment, expand and improve the real estate presently owned or other properties purchased, or sell such real estate
properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances warrant. We do not have a policy that restricts the amount or percentage of assets that will be invested in any specific property, however, our investments may be restricted by our debt covenants.



We may also continue to participate with third
parties in property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership, including third parties with expertise in mixed-use opportunities. These investments may permit us to own interests in larger assets without unduly restricting
diversification and, therefore, add flexibility in structuring our portfolio.



Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such financing or indebtedness as may be incurred in connection with acquiring or refinancing these investments.
Debt service on such financing or indebtedness will have a priority over any distributions with respect to our common stock. Investments are also subject to our policy not to be treated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of
1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”).



Investments in Real Estate Mortgages



While our current portfolio consists of, and our business objectives emphasize, equity investments in commercial real estate, we may, at
the discretion of the Board of Directors, invest in mortgages and other types of real estate interests consistent with our qualification as a REIT. Investments in real estate mortgages run the risk that one or more borrowers may default under such
mortgages and that the collateral securing such mortgages may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup our full investment. Although we currently do not have any investments in mortgages or deeds of trust, we may invest in participating, convertible
or traditional mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the cash flow, or any appreciation in value of the property or as an entrance to the fee ownership.



Securities of or Interests in Entities Primarily Engaged
in Real Estate Activities



Subject to the
percentage of ownership limitations and gross income tests necessary for our REIT qualification, we also may invest in securities of other REITs, other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers, including for the
purpose of exercising control over such entities.







Dispositions





Financing Policies



The agreement of limited partnership of BPLP and our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur. We do not have a policy limiting the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. However, our mortgages, credit facilities and unsecured
debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. We have not established any limit on the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any single property or on our
portfolio as a whole.



Our Board of Directors will
consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and when making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, including the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of
our properties upon refinancing, the entering into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts and the ability of particular properties and BPLP as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected
debt service.



Policies with Respect to Other Activities



As the sole general partner of BPLP, we
have the authority to issue additional common and preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP. We have in the past, and may in the future, issue common or preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP to persons who contribute
their direct or indirect interests in properties to us in exchange for such common or preferred units of limited partnership interest in BPLP. We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of issuers other
than BPLP and we do not intend to do so. At all times, we intend to make investments in such a manner as to maintain our qualification as a REIT, unless because of circumstances or changes in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the
Treasury Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to qualify as a REIT. We may make loans to third parties, including, without limitation, to joint ventures in which we participate or in connection
with the disposition of a property. We intend to make investments in such a way that we will not be treated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Our policies with respect to these and other activities may be reviewed and modified or amended
from time to time by the Board of Directors.



Sustainability



As one of the largest owners and
developers of office properties in the United States, we actively work to promote our growth and operations in a sustainable and responsible manner across our five regions. We focus our sustainability initiatives on the design and construction of
our new developments, the operation of our existing







buildings and our internal corporate practices. Our sustainability initiatives are centered on energy efficiency, waste reduction and water preservation, as well as making a positive impact on
the communities in which we conduct business. Through these efforts we demonstrate that operating and developing commercial real estate can be conducted with a conscious regard for the environment while mutually benefiting our tenants, investors,
employees and the communities in which we operate. In November 2010, we launched a new page on our website to increase the transparency of our sustainability program. You may access our sustainability report on our website at http://
www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Sustainability.”



Competition



We compete in the leasing of office space with a considerable number of other real estate companies, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us. In addition,
our hotel property competes for guests with other hotels, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us and to the manager of our one hotel, Marriott International, Inc.



Principal factors of competition in our primary business of
owning, acquiring and developing office properties are the quality of properties, leasing terms (including rent and other charges and allowances for tenant improvements), attractiveness and convenience of location, the quality and breadth of tenant
services provided, and reputation as an owner and operator of quality office properties in the relevant market. Additionally, our ability to compete depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, investment
alternatives, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, utilities, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.



In addition, although not part of our core
strategy, we are currently developing two residential properties that are incidental to our office developments and may in the future decide to acquire or develop additional residential properties. As an owner and operator of apartments, we
will also face competition for prospective residents from other operators whose properties may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities
that the resident seeks. We will also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Because we have limited experience with residential properties, we expect to retain third parties to manage our residential
properties.



Our Hotel Property









Seasonality



Our hotel property traditionally has experienced significant
seasonality in its operating income, with the percentage of net operating income by quarter over the year ended December 31, 2010 shown below.



First QuarterSecond QuarterThird QuarterFourth Quarter8%30%24%38%



Corporate Governance



Boston Properties is currently governed by a ten member Board of Directors, which is divided into three classes (Class I, Class II and
Class III). Our Board of Directors is currently comprised of three Class I directors (Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Carol B. Einiger and Dr. Jacob A. Frenkel), four Class II directors (Lawrence S. Bacow, Zoë Baird, Alan J. Patricof and
Martin Turchin) and three Class III directors (Douglas T. Linde, Matthew J. Lustig and David A. Twardock). The terms of our current Class I, Class II and Class III directors expire at the annual meetings of stockholders to be held in 2013, 2011 and
2012, respectively.



At the 2010 annual meeting of
stockholders, our stockholders approved an amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation that will, among other things, destagger the Board of Directors and provide for the annual election of directors. As a result, commencing
with the class of directors standing for election at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders our directors whose terms expire will stand for election for one-year terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders. Directors
elected prior to the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders will continue to serve their full three-year terms.



On January 20, 2011, Matthew J. Lustig was appointed as a Class III director to serve until the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders.



Our Board of Directors has Audit, Compensation
and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. The membership of each of these committees is described below.



Name of DirectorAuditCompensationNominatingandCorporateGovernanceLawrence S. BacowXXZoë BairdX*Carol B. EinigerXDr. Jacob A. FrenkelXAlan J. PatricofX*XDavid A. TwardockX*X



X=Committee member, *=Chair



•Our Board of Directors has adopted charters for each of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. Each Committee is
comprised of three (3) independent directors. A copy of each of these charters is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Committees and Charters.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com
under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Guidelines.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs business decisions made and actions taken by our directors,
officers and employees. A copy of this code is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate







Governance” and subheading “Code of Conduct and Ethics.” We intend to disclose on this website any amendment to, or waiver of, any provision of this Code applicable to our
directors and executive officers that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange.



•Our Board of Directors has established an ethics reporting system that employees may use to anonymously report possible violations of the Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, including concerns regarding questionable accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, by telephone or over the internet.







