Item 1.Business



General



As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to Boston Properties, Inc., a
Delaware corporation organized in 1997, individually or together with its subsidiaries, including Boston Properties Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, and our predecessors. We are a fully integrated, self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or “REIT,” and one of the largest owners and developers of office properties in the United States.



Our properties are concentrated in five markets—Boston, New York, Princeton, San Francisco and Washington, DC. We conduct
substantially all of our business through our subsidiary, Boston Properties Limited Partnership. At December 31, 2012, we owned or had interests in 157 properties, totaling approximately 44.4 million net rentable square feet, including
nine properties under construction totaling approximately 2.8 million net rentable square feet. In addition, we had structured parking for approximately 46,833 vehicles containing approximately 15.9 million square feet. Our properties
consisted of:



•149 office properties including 132 Class A office properties (including eight properties under construction) and 17 Office/Technical properties;



•one hotel;



•four retail properties; and



•three residential properties (one of which is under construction).



We own or control undeveloped land totaling approximately 509.3 acres, which could support approximately
12.5 million square feet of additional development. In addition, we have a noncontrolling interest in the Boston Properties Office Value-Added Fund, L.P., which we refer to as the “Value-Added Fund,” which is a strategic partnership
with two institutional investors through which we pursued the acquisition of assets within our existing markets that had deficiencies in property characteristics that provided an opportunity to create value through repositioning, refurbishment or
renovation. Our investments through the Value-Added Fund are not included in our portfolio information tables or any other portfolio level statistics. At December 31, 2012, the Value-Added Fund had investments in 23 buildings comprised of two
office complexes in Mountain View, California.



We
consider Class A office properties to be centrally-located buildings that are professionally managed and maintained, attract high-quality tenants and command upper-tier rental rates, and that are modern structures or have been modernized to
compete with newer buildings. We consider Office/Technical properties to be properties that support office, research and development, laboratory and other technical uses. Our definitions of Class A office and Office/Technical properties may be
different than those used by other companies.



We
are a full-service real estate company, with substantial in-house expertise and resources in acquisitions, development, financing, capital markets, construction management, property management, marketing, leasing, accounting, tax and legal services.
As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 730 employees. Our thirty-three senior officers have an average of twenty-eight years experience in the real estate industry, including an average of eighteen years of experience with us. Our
principal executive office and Boston regional office are located at The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199 and our telephone number is (617) 236-3300. In addition, we have regional offices at 599
Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022; 302 Carnegie Center, Princeton, New Jersey 08540; Four Embarcadero Center, San Francisco, California 94111; and 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037.







Our Web site is located at http://www.bostonproperties.com. On our Web site, you can obtain
a free copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may also obtain our reports by accessing the EDGAR database at the SEC’s
website at http://www.sec.gov, or we will furnish an electronic or paper copy of these reports free of charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, Boston Properties, Inc., The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston,
Massachusetts 02199. The name “Boston Properties” and our logo (consisting of a stylized “b”) are registered service marks of Boston Properties Limited Partnership.



Boston Properties Limited Partnership



Boston Properties Limited Partnership,
or BPLP or our Operating Partnership, is a Delaware limited partnership, and the entity through which we conduct substantially all of our business and own, either directly or through subsidiaries, substantially all of our assets. We are the sole
general partner and, as of February 21, 2013, the owner of approximately 89.0% of the economic interests in BPLP. Economic interest was calculated as the number of common partnership units of BPLP owned by the Company as a percentage of the sum
of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of BPLP, (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of outstanding preferred partnership units of BPLP and (3) the number of common
units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of BPLP, or LTIP Units, other than LTIP Units issued in the form of Outperformance Awards (“OPP Awards”) and 2013 Multi-Year Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards
(“MYLTIP Awards”), assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP Units. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. An LTIP Unit is generally the economic equivalent of a share of our restricted common
stock, although LTIP Units issued in the form of OPP Awards or MYLTIP Awards are only entitled to receive one-tenth
(1/10

th



Preferred units of BPLP have the rights, preferences and
other privileges as are set forth in an amendment to the limited partnership agreement of BPLP. As of December 31, 2012 and February 21, 2013, BPLP had two series of Preferred Units outstanding (i.e., Series Two Preferred Units and Series
Four Preferred Units). The Series Two Preferred Units have a liquidation preference of $50.00 per unit (or an aggregate of approximately $49.8 million at December 31, 2012 and February 21, 2013). The Series Two Preferred Units are
convertible, at the holder’s election, into common units at a conversion price of $38.10 per common unit (equivalent to a ratio of 1.312336 common units per Series Two Preferred Unit). Distributions on the Series Two Preferred Units are payable
quarterly and, unless the greater rate described in the next sentence applies, accrue at 6.0% per annum. If







distributions on the number of common units of limited partnership interest, or OP Units, into which the Series Two Preferred Units are convertible are greater than distributions calculated using
the rate described in the preceding sentence for the applicable quarterly period, then the greater distributions are payable instead. The holders of Series Two Preferred Units have the right to require BPLP to redeem their units for cash at the
redemption price of $50.00 per unit on May 14, 2013 and May 12, 2014. The maximum number of units that may be required to be redeemed from all holders on each of these dates is 1,007,662, which is one-sixth of the number of Series Two
Preferred Units that were originally issued. The holders also had the right to have their Series Two Preferred Units redeemed for cash as of May 12, 2009, May 12, 2010, May 12, 2011 and May 14, 2012, although no holder exercised
such right. On May 14, 2013 and May 12, 2014, BPLP also has the right, subject to certain conditions, to redeem Series Two Preferred Units for cash or to convert into OP Units any Series Two Preferred Units that are not redeemed when they
are eligible for redemption.



The Series Four
Preferred Units have a liquidation preference of $50.00 per unit (or an aggregate of approximately $61.1 million at December 31, 2012 and February 21, 2013). The Series Four Preferred Units, which bear a preferred distribution equal
to 2.00% per annum on a liquidation preference of $50.00 per unit, are not convertible into or exchangeable for any common equity of BPLP or us. We also have the right, subject to certain conditions, to redeem Series Four Preferred Units for
cash at the redemption price of $50.00 per unit. Due to the holders’ redemption option existing outside the control of the Company, the Series Four Preferred Units are presented outside of permanent equity in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.



Transactions During 2012



Acquisitions



On March 1, 2012, we acquired 453 Ravendale Drive
located in Mountain View, California for a purchase price of approximately $6.7 million in cash. 453 Ravendale Drive is an approximately 30,000 net rentable square foot Office/Technical property.



On March 13, 2012, we acquired 100 Federal Street in
Boston, Massachusetts for an aggregate investment of approximately $615.0 million in cash. In connection with the transaction, we entered into a long-term lease with an affiliate of Bank of America for approximately 732,000 square feet. 100 Federal
Street is an approximately 1,265,000 net rentable square foot, 37-story Class A office tower located in Boston, Massachusetts.



On October 4, 2012, we completed the formation of a joint venture which owns and operates Fountain Square located in Reston,
Virginia, adjacent to our other Reston properties. Fountain Square is an office and retail complex aggregating approximately 758,000 net rentable square feet, comprised of approximately 521,000 net rentable square feet of Class A office space
and approximately 237,000 net rentable square feet of retail space. The joint venture partner contributed the property valued at approximately $385.0 million and related mortgage indebtedness totaling approximately $211.3 million for a 50% interest
in the joint venture. We contributed cash totaling approximately $87.0 million for our 50% interest, which cash was distributed to the joint venture partner. We are consolidating this joint venture. The mortgage loan bears interest at a fixed rate
of 5.71% per annum and matures on October 11, 2016. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement (i) we have rights to acquire the partner’s 50% interest and (ii) the partner has the right to cause us to acquire the
partner’s interest on January 4, 2016, in each case at a fixed price totaling approximately $102.0 million in cash. The fixed price option rights expire on January 31, 2016.



Dispositions



On May 17, 2012, we completed the sale of our Bedford Business Park properties located in Bedford, Massachusetts for approximately
$62.8 million in cash. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $62.0 million, resulting in a gain on sale of approximately $36.9 million. Bedford Business Park is comprised of two Office/Technical buildings and one Class A office building
aggregating approximately 470,000 net rentable square feet.







The servicer of the non-recourse mortgage loan on our Montvale Center property located in
Gaithersburg, Maryland foreclosed on the property on January 31, 2012. As a result of the foreclosure, we recognized a gain on forgiveness of debt during the first quarter of 2012 totaling approximately $15.8 million, net of noncontrolling
interests’ share of approximately $2.0 million. Due to a procedural error by the trustee, the foreclosure sale was subsequently dismissed by the applicable court prior to ratification. As a result, we have revised our financial statements to
properly reflect the property and related mortgage debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2012 and have reversed the gain on forgiveness of debt and recognized the operating activity from the property within our consolidated
statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2012. A subsequent foreclosure sale occurred on December 21, 2012 and ratification by the applicable court is pending. Once ratified, we will recognize a gain on forgiveness of debt.
These events have no impact on our cash flows.



Developments



As of December 31, 2012, we had nine projects under construction comprised of eight office properties and one residential property,
which aggregate approximately 2.8 million square feet. We estimate the total investment to complete these projects, in the aggregate, is approximately $1.8 billion of which we had already invested approximately $1.1 billion as of
December 31, 2012. The investment through December 31, 2012 and estimated total investment for our properties under construction as of December 31, 2012 are detailed below (in thousands):



Construction PropertiesEstimatedStabilization DateLocationInvestmentto Date(1)Estimated 
TotalInvestment(1)OfficeAnnapolis Junction Building Six (50% ownership)Third Quarter, 2013Annapolis, MD$11,167$14,000500 North Capitol (30% ownership)Fourth Quarter, 2013Washington, DC30,03336,540Two Patriots Park (formerly12300 Sunrise Valley Drive)Second Quarter,2013Reston, VA52,55864,000Seventeen Cambridge CenterThird Quarter, 2013Cambridge, MA59,10286,300Cambridge Center ConnectorThird Quarter, 2013Cambridge, MA6,89224,600Annapolis Junction Building Seven (50% ownership)Fourth Quarter, 2014Annapolis, MD3,99516,050680 Folsom StreetThird Quarter, 2015San Francisco,CA185,848340,000250 West 55thStreetFourth Quarter, 2015New York, NY730,8121,050,000Total Office Properties under Construction$1,080,407$1,631,490ResidentialThe Avant at Reston Town Center (359 units)Fourth Quarter, 2015Reston, VA$67,620$137,250Total Properties under Construction$1,148,027$1,768,740



(1)Represents our share. Includes net revenue during lease up period and approximately $51.2 million of construction cost and leasing commission accruals.



On January 3, 2012, we
commenced the redevelopment of Two Patriots Park, a Class A office project with approximately 256,000 net rentable square feet located in Reston, Virginia. We will capitalize incremental costs during the redevelopment.



On April 30, 2012, we completed and fully placed
in-service 510 Madison Avenue, a Class A office project with approximately 356,000 net rentable square feet located in New York City. As of December 31, 2012, the total investment was approximately $370.7 million with an estimated total
investment upon completion of approximately $375.0 million.







On May 4, 2012, we completed and fully placed in-service One Patriots Park, a
Class A office redevelopment project with approximately 268,000 net rentable square feet located in Reston, Virginia. As of December 31, 2012, the total investment was approximately $60.5 million with an estimated total investment upon
completion of approximately $67.0 million.



On
August 29, 2012, we acquired the development project located at 680 Folsom Street and 50 Hawthorne Street (which we refer to herein collectively as 680 Folsom Street) in San Francisco, California. When completed, the project will comprise
approximately 522,000 net rentable square feet of Class A office and retail space. The project is approximately 85% pre-leased and as a result we have accounted for the acquisition as a business combination. The estimated project cost upon
completion is approximately $340 million with initial occupancy expected in the first quarter of 2014. As part of the transaction, we also acquired the corner site of 690 Folsom Street, which is an adjacent parcel with a vacant 22,000 square foot,
two-story structure that may be redeveloped in the future. The consideration paid by us to the seller consisted of approximately $62.2 million in cash and the issuance of 1,588,100 Series Four Preferred Units of limited partnership interest in our
Operating Partnership. The Series Four Preferred Units are not convertible into or exchangeable for any common equity of our Operating Partnership or us, have a per unit liquidation preference of $50.00 and are entitled to receive quarterly
distributions of $0.25 per unit (or an annual rate of 2.0%). In connection with the acquisition, we assumed a $170.0 million construction loan commitment and subsequently terminated the loan without ever drawing any amounts thereunder.



On December 14, 2012, we signed a
20-year lease with a law firm for approximately 246,000 net rentable square feet at 250 West 55thStreet. 250 West 55thStreet is an approximately 989,000 net rentable square foot office building under construction in midtown Manhattan. The development property is currently approximately 46% pre-leased with the remaining
available office space in the upper portion of the tower.



On December 21, 2012, we signed a 20-year lease with a law firm for approximately 376,000 net rentable square feet at 601 Massachusetts Avenue, our planned approximately 478,000 net rentable square
foot development project located in Washington, DC. Construction of the project, which is currently 100% leased and included in our in-service portfolio, is scheduled to commence in the second quarter of 2013, and building completion is expected to
occur in the fourth quarter of 2015. The development property is currently approximately 79% pre-leased.



Secured Debt Transactions



On March 12, 2012, we used available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our Bay Colony Corporate Center property
located in Waltham, Massachusetts totaling $143.9 million. The mortgage financing bore interest at a fixed rate of 6.53% per annum and was scheduled to mature on June 11, 2012. There was no prepayment penalty. We recognized a gain on early
extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $0.9 million related to the acceleration of the remaining balance of the historical fair value adjustment, which was the result of purchase accounting.



On April 2, 2012, we used available cash to repay the
mortgage loan collateralized by our One Freedom Square property located in Reston, Virginia totaling $65.1 million. The mortgage financing bore interest at a fixed rate of 7.75% per annum and was scheduled to mature on June 30, 2012. There
was no prepayment penalty. We recognized a gain on early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $0.3 million related to the acceleration of the remaining balance of the historical fair value debt adjustment, which was the result of purchase
accounting.



On August 29, 2012, in
connection with our acquisition of the development project located at 680 Folsom Street in San Francisco, California, we assumed the construction loan commitment collateralized by the project (Refer to Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements). The assumed construction loan commitment totaling $170.0 million bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 3.70% per annum and was scheduled to







mature on May 30, 2015 with two, one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions. In addition, we assumed an interest rate derivative which capped the one-month LIBOR index rate at
a maximum of 3.00% per annum on a notional amount up to $170.0 million and with an expiration date of May 30, 2015. On December 18, 2012, we terminated the construction loan commitment. On January 8, 2013, we terminated the
interest rate derivative. We had not drawn any amounts under the facility.



On September 4, 2012, we used available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our Sumner Square property located in Washington, DC totaling approximately $23.2 million. The mortgage
financing bore interest at a fixed rate of 7.35% per annum and was scheduled to mature on September 1, 2013. We recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $0.3 million, which included a prepayment penalty
totaling approximately $0.2 million associated with the early repayment.



On October 4, 2012, in connection with the formation of a consolidated joint venture which owns and operates Fountain Square located in Reston, Virginia, the joint venture assumed the mortgage loan
collateralized by the property totaling approximately $211.3 million (Refer to Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). The assumed mortgage loan, which bears contractual interest at a fixed rate of 5.71% per annum and matures on
October 11, 2016, was recorded at its fair value of approximately $234.4 million using an effective interest rate of 2.56% per annum. We have a 50% interest in the consolidated joint venture.



Unsecured Senior Notes



On June 11, 2012, our Operating Partnership completed a
public offering of $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of its 3.850% senior unsecured notes due 2023. The notes were priced at 99.779% of the principal amount to yield an effective rate (including financing fees) of 3.954% to maturity. The
notes will mature on February 1, 2023, unless earlier redeemed. The aggregate net proceeds from the offering were approximately $989.4 million after deducting underwriting discounts and transaction expenses.



On August 24, 2012, our Operating Partnership used
available cash to redeem the remaining $225.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its 6.25% senior notes due 2013. The redemption price was determined in accordance with the applicable indenture and totaled approximately $231.6 million. The
redemption price included approximately $1.5 million of accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the redemption date. Excluding such accrued and unpaid interest, the redemption price was approximately 102.25% of the principal amount being
redeemed. We recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $5.2 million, which amount included the payment of the redemption premium totaling approximately $5.1 million.



Unsecured Exchangeable Senior Notes









Equity Transactions



On June 2, 2011, we established a new “at the market” (“ATM”) stock offering program
through which we may sell from time to time up to an aggregate of $600.0 million of our common stock through sales agents over a three-year period. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we issued an aggregate of 2,347,500 shares of common
stock under this ATM stock offering program for gross proceeds of approximately $249.8 million and net proceeds of approximately $247.0 million. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $305.3 million remained available for issuance under this
ATM program.



During the year ended
December 31, 2012, we acquired an aggregate of 1,110,660 common units of limited partnership interest, including 544,729 common units issued upon the conversion of LTIP units and 153,604 issued upon the conversion of Series Two preferred units,
presented by the holders for redemption, in exchange for an equal number of shares of common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we issued 22,823 shares of common stock as a result of stock options being exercised.



Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures



On July 25, 2012, a joint venture in
which we have a 50% interest partially placed in-service Annapolis Junction Building Six, a Class A office property with approximately 120,000 net rentable square feet located in Annapolis, Maryland.



On September 27, 2012, our Value-Added Fund completed
the sale of its 300 Billerica Road property located in Chelmsford, Massachusetts for approximately $12.2 million, including the assumption by the buyer of $7.5 million of mortgage indebtedness. 300 Billerica Road is an approximately 111,000 net
rentable square foot office building. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $4.3 million, of which our share was approximately $2.8 million, after the payment of transaction costs. Our share of the net proceeds included approximately $2.4 million
resulting from the Value-Added Fund’s repayment of a loan from our Operating Partnership. The Value-Added Fund recognized a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $1.0 million, of which our share totaled approximately $0.2 million
and is included within income from unconsolidated joint ventures in our consolidated statements of operations.



On October 1, 2012, a joint venture in which we have a 30% interest partially placed in-service 500 North Capitol Street, NW, a
Class A office redevelopment project with approximately 232,000 net rentable square feet located in Washington, DC. The property is currently 82% leased.



On October 19, 2012, we formed a joint venture with an affiliate of Hines to pursue the acquisition of land in San Francisco,
California which could support a 61-story, 1.4 million square foot office tower known as Transbay Tower. The purchase price is approximately $190.0 million, and the acquisition is expected to close in the first quarter of 2013. We have a 50%
interest in the joint venture. We have provided a non-refundable deposit for the land purchase in the form of a letter of credit totaling $5.0 million. There can be no assurance that the acquisition of the land will be consummated on the terms
currently contemplated or at all. On February 7, 2013, the affiliate of Hines issued a notice that it has elected under the joint venture agreement to reduce its nominal ownership interest in the venture from 50% to 5%. On
February 26, 2013, we issued a notice electing to proceed with the venture on that basis. As a result, we have a 95% nominal interest in, and expect to consolidate, the joint venture. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.



On November 21, 2012, our
partner in our Annapolis Junction joint venture contributed a parcel of land and improvements and we contributed cash of approximately $5.4 million. We have a 50% interest in this joint venture. The venture has commenced construction of Annapolis
Junction Building Seven, which when completed will consist of a Class A office property with approximately 125,000 net rentable square feet located in Annapolis, Maryland.







Stock Option and Incentive Plan



On January 25, 2012, our Compensation Committee
approved outperformance awards under our Stock Option and Incentive Plan to our officers and employees. These awards (the “2012 OPP Awards”) are part of a broad-based, long-term incentive compensation program designed to provide our
management team with the potential to earn equity awards subject to us “outperforming” and creating shareholder value in a pay-for-performance structure. Recipients of 2012 OPP Awards will share in a maximum outperformance pool of $40.0
million if the total return to shareholders, including both share appreciation and dividends, exceeds absolute and relative hurdles over a three-year measurement period from February 7, 2012 to February 6, 2015. Earned awards are subject
to two-years of time-based vesting after the performance measurement date. Under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718 “Compensation—Stock Compensation,” the 2012 OPP
Awards have an aggregate value of approximately $7.7 million, which amount will be amortized into earnings over the five-year plan period under the graded vesting method.



Executive Resignation



On February 29, 2012, E. Mitchell Norville resigned as
our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer. In connection with his resignation, Mr. Norville entered into a separation agreement with us. We recognized approximately $4.5 million of expense during the first quarter of 2012 in
connection with Mr. Norville’s resignation.



Business and Growth Strategies



Business Strategy



Our primary business objective is to maximize return on investment so as to provide our investors with the greatest possible total return. Our strategy to achieve this objective is:



•to concentrate on a few carefully selected geographic markets, including Boston, New York, Princeton, San Francisco and Washington, DC, and to be one
of the leading, if not the leading, owners and developers in each of those markets. We select markets and submarkets with a diverse economic base and a deep pool of prospective tenants in various industries and where tenants have demonstrated a
preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities;



•to emphasize markets and submarkets within those markets where the lack of available sites and the difficulty of receiving the necessary approvals for
development and the necessary financing constitute high barriers to the creation of new supply, and where skill, financial strength and diligence are required to successfully develop, finance and manage high-quality office, research and development
space, as well as selected retail and residential space;



•to take on complex, technically challenging projects, leveraging the skills of our management team to successfully develop, acquire or reposition
properties that other organizations may not have the capacity or resources to pursue;



•to concentrate on high-quality real estate designed to meet the demands of today’s tenants who require sophisticated telecommunications and
related infrastructure, support services and amenities, and to manage those facilities so as to become the landlord of choice for both existing and prospective clients;



•to opportunistically acquire assets which increase our penetration in the markets in which we have chosen to concentrate, as well as potential new
markets, which exhibit an opportunity to improve or preserve returns through repositioning (through a combination of capital improvements and shift in marketing strategy), changes in management focus and re-leasing as existing leases terminate;



•to explore joint venture opportunities primarily with existing property owners located in desirable locations, who seek to benefit from the depth of
development and management expertise we are able to provide and our access to capital, and/or to explore joint venture opportunities with strategic institutional partners, leveraging our skills as owners, operators and developers of Class A
office space and mixed-use complexes;







•to pursue on a selective basis the sale of properties, including core properties, to take advantage of our value creation and the demand for our
premier properties;



•to seek third-party development contracts, which can be a significant source of revenue and enable us to retain and utilize our existing development
and construction management staff, especially when our internal development is less active or when new development is less-warranted due to market conditions; and



•to enhance our capital structure through our access to a variety of sources of capital and proactively manage our debt expirations.



Growth Strategies



External Growth



We believe that our development experience and our
organizational depth position us to continue to selectively develop a range of property types, including low-rise suburban office properties, high-rise urban developments, mixed-use developments (including residential) and research and laboratory
space, within budget and on schedule. We believe we are also well positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:



•our control of sites (including sites under contract or option to acquire) in our markets that could support approximately 12.5 million additional
square feet of new office, retail, and residential development;



•our reputation gained through 43 years of successful operations and the stability and strength of our existing portfolio of properties;



•our relationships with leading national corporations, universities and public institutions seeking new facilities and development services;



•our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the real estate industry;



•our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions efficiently provides comfort to domestic and foreign institutions, private investors and
corporations who seek to sell commercial real estate in our market areas;



•our ability to act quickly on due diligence and financing; and



•our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality real estate assets.



Opportunities to execute our external growth strategy fall
into three categories:



•Development in selected submarkets.We believe the additional development of well-positioned office buildings and mixed use complexes could be
justified in many of our submarkets. We believe in acquiring land after taking into consideration timing factors relating to economic cycles and in response to market conditions that allow for its development at the appropriate time. While we
purposely concentrate in markets with high barriers-to-entry, we have demonstrated throughout our 43-year history, an ability to make carefully timed land acquisitions in submarkets where we can become one of the market leaders in establishing rent
and other business terms. We believe that there are opportunities at key locations in our existing and other markets for a well-capitalized developer to acquire land with development potential.



In the past, we have been particularly successful at
acquiring sites or options to purchase sites that need governmental approvals for development. Because of our development expertise, knowledge of the governmental approval process and reputation for quality development with local government
regulatory bodies, we generally have been able to secure the permits necessary to allow development and to profit from the resulting increase in land value. We seek complex projects where we can add value through the efforts of our experienced and
skilled management team leading to attractive returns on investment.







Our strong regional relationships and recognized development expertise have enabled us to
capitalize on unique build-to-suit opportunities. We intend to seek and expect to continue to be presented with such opportunities in the near term allowing us to earn relatively significant returns on these development opportunities through
multiple business cycles.



•Acquisition of assets and portfolios of assets from institutions or individuals.We believe that due to our size, management strength and
reputation, we are well positioned to acquire portfolios of assets or individual properties from institutions or individuals if valuations meet our criteria. In addition, we believe that our market knowledge and our liquidity and access to capital
may provide us with a competitive advantage when pursuing acquisitions. There may be enhanced opportunities to purchase assets with near-term financing maturities or possibly provide debt on assets at enhanced yields given the limited availability
of traditional sources of debt. Opportunities to acquire properties may also come through the purchase of first mortgage or mezzanine debt. We may also acquire properties for cash, but we are also particularly well-positioned to appeal to sellers
wishing to contribute on a tax-deferred basis their ownership of property for equity in a diversified real estate operating company that offers liquidity through access to the public equity markets in addition to a quarterly distribution. Our
ability to offer common and preferred units of limited partnership in BPLP to sellers who would otherwise recognize a taxable gain upon a sale of assets or our common stock may facilitate this type of transaction on a tax-efficient basis. In
addition, we may consider mergers with and acquisitions of compatible real estate firms.



•Acquisition of underperforming assets and portfolios of assets. We believe that because of our in-depth market knowledge and development
experience in each of our markets, our national reputation with brokers, financial institutions and others involved in the real estate market and our access to competitively-priced capital, we are well-positioned to identify and acquire existing,
underperforming properties for competitive prices and to add significant additional value to such properties through our effective marketing strategies, repositioning/redevelopment expertise and a responsive property management program. We have
developed this strategy and program for our existing portfolio, where we provide high-quality property management services using our own employees in order to encourage tenants to renew, expand and relocate in our properties. We are able to achieve
speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house and third-party vendors’ services for marketing, including calls and presentations to prospective tenants, print advertisements, lease negotiation
and construction of tenant improvements. Our tenants benefit from cost efficiencies produced by our experienced work force, which is attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management.



Internal Growth



We believe that opportunities will exist to increase cash
flow from our existing properties because they are of high quality and in desirable locations within markets where, in general, the creation of new supply is limited by the lack of available sites and the difficulty of obtaining the necessary
approvals for development on vacant land and financing. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is three-fold: (1) to provide high-quality property management services using our employees in order to encourage tenants
to renew, expand and relocate in our properties, (2) to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house services for marketing, lease negotiation and construction of tenant improvements
and (3) to work with new or existing tenants with space expansion or contraction needs maximizing the cash flow from our assets. We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:



•Cultivate existing submarkets and long-term relationships with credit tenants.In choosing locations for our properties, we have paid particular
attention to transportation and commuting patterns, physical environment, adjacency to established business centers, proximity to sources of business growth and other local factors.







The average lease term of our in-place leases, including unconsolidated joint ventures, was
approximately 6.9 years at December 31, 2012 and we continue to cultivate long-term leasing relationships with a diverse base of high-quality, financially stable tenants. Based on leases in place at December 31, 2012, leases with respect
to approximately 4.0% of the total square feet in our portfolio (excluding 601 Massachusetts Avenue, which will be removed from service for redevelopment in 2013), including unconsolidated joint ventures, will expire in calendar year 2013.



•Directly manage properties to maximize the potential for tenant retention.We provide property management services ourselves, rather than
contracting for this service, to maintain awareness of and responsiveness to tenant needs. We and our properties also benefit from cost efficiencies produced by an experienced work force attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management and
from our continuing programs to assure that our property management personnel at all levels remain aware of their important role in tenant relations.



•Replace tenants quickly at best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract
new tenants and achieve relatively high rental rates as a result of our well-located, well-designed and well-maintained properties, our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer expansion
and relocation alternatives within our submarkets.



•Extend terms of existing leases to existing tenants prior to expiration. We have also successfully structured early tenant renewals, which have
reduced the cost associated with lease downtime while securing the tenancy of our highest quality credit-worthy tenants on a long-term basis and enhancing relationships.



Policies with Respect to Certain Activities



The discussion below sets forth certain additional
information regarding our investment, financing and other policies. These policies have been determined by our Board of Directors and, in general, may be amended or revised from time to time by our Board of Directors.



Investment Policies



Investments in Real Estate or Interests in Real Estate



Our investment objectives are to provide
quarterly cash dividends to our securityholders and to achieve long-term capital appreciation through increases in the value of Boston Properties, Inc. We have not established a specific policy regarding the relative priority of these investment
objectives.



We expect to continue to pursue our
investment objectives primarily through the ownership of our current properties, development projects and other acquired properties. We currently intend to continue to invest primarily in developments of properties and acquisitions of existing
improved properties or properties in need of redevelopment, and acquisitions of land that we believe have development potential, primarily in our existing markets of Boston, New York, Princeton, San Francisco and Washington, DC, but also potentially
in new markets. Future investment or development activities will not be limited to a specified percentage of our assets. We intend to engage in such future investment or development activities in a manner that is consistent with the maintenance of
our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In addition, we may purchase or lease income-producing commercial and other types of properties for long-term investment, expand and improve the real estate presently owned or other properties
purchased, or sell such real estate properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances warrant. We do not have a policy that restricts the amount or percentage of assets that will be invested in any specific property, however, our investments may
be restricted by our debt covenants.



We may also
continue to participate with third parties in property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership, including third parties with expertise in mixed-use opportunities. These investments may permit us to own interests in larger
assets without unduly restricting diversification and, therefore, add flexibility in structuring our portfolio.







Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or
such financing or indebtedness as may be incurred in connection with acquiring or refinancing these investments. Debt service on such financing or indebtedness will have a priority over any distributions with respect to our common stock. Investments
are also subject to our policy not to be treated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”).



Investments in Real Estate Mortgages



While our current portfolio consists primarily of, and our business objectives emphasize, equity investments in commercial real estate, we
may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, invest in mortgages and other types of real estate interests consistent with our qualification as a REIT. Investments in real estate mortgages run the risk that one or more borrowers may default
under such mortgages and that the collateral securing such mortgages may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup our full investment. We may invest in participating, convertible or traditional mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the
cash flow, or any appreciation in value of the property or as an entrance to the fee ownership.



Securities of or Interests in Entities Primarily Engaged in Real Estate Activities



Subject to the percentage of ownership limitations and gross income and asset tests necessary for our REIT qualification, we also may
invest in securities of other REITs, other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers, including for the purpose of exercising control over such entities.



Dispositions



Our decision to dispose of properties is based upon the periodic review of our portfolio and the determination by the Board of Directors
that such action would be in our best interests. Any decision to dispose of a property will be authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof. Some holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP, including Mortimer B. Zuckerman, could
incur adverse tax consequences upon the sale of certain of our properties that differ from the tax consequences to us. Consequently, holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and
timing of any such sale. Such different tax treatment derives in most cases from the fact that we acquired these properties in exchange for partnership interests in contribution transactions structured to allow the prior owners to defer taxable
gain. Generally this deferral continues so long as we do not dispose of the properties in a taxable transaction. Unless a sale by us of these properties is structured as a like-kind exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code or in
a manner that otherwise allows deferral to continue, recognition of the deferred tax gain allocable to these prior owners is generally triggered by a sale. Some of our assets are subject to tax protection agreements, which may limit our ability to
dispose of the assets or require us to pay damages to the prior owners in the event of a taxable sale.



Financing Policies



The agreement of limited partnership of BPLP and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur. We do not have a policy limiting the
amount of indebtedness that we may incur. However, our mortgages, credit facilities and unsecured debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. We have not established any
limit on the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any single property or on our portfolio as a whole.



Our Board of Directors will consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and when making decisions regarding the
incurrence of indebtedness, including the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing, the entering into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and
other interest rate hedging contracts and the ability of particular properties and BPLP as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service.







Policies with Respect to Other Activities



As the sole general partner of BPLP, we have the authority
to issue additional common and preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP. We have in the past, and may in the future, issue common or preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP to persons who contribute their direct or
indirect interests in properties to us in exchange for such common or preferred units of limited partnership interest in BPLP. We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of issuers other than BPLP and
we do not intend to do so. At all times, we intend to make investments in such a manner as to maintain our qualification as a REIT, unless because of circumstances or changes in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the Treasury
Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to qualify as a REIT. We may make loans to third parties, including, without limitation, to joint ventures in which we participate or in connection with the
disposition of a property. We intend to make investments in such a way that we will not be treated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Our policies with respect to these and other activities may be reviewed and modified or amended from time
to time by the Board of Directors.



Sustainability



As one of the largest owners and
developers of office properties in the United States, we actively work to promote our growth and operations in a sustainable and responsible manner across our five regions. We focus our sustainability initiatives on the design and construction of
our new developments, the operation of our existing buildings and our internal corporate practices. Our sustainability initiatives are centered on energy efficiency, waste reduction and water preservation, as well as making a positive impact on the
communities in which we conduct business. Through these efforts we demonstrate that operating and developing commercial real estate can be conducted with a conscious regard for the environment while mutually benefiting our tenants, investors,
employees and the communities in which we operate. We provide disclosure on our website to increase the transparency of our sustainability program, which we periodically update with current or additional information. You may access our
sustainability report on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Sustainability.”



Competition



We compete in the leasing of office, retail and residential space with a considerable number of other real estate companies, some of which
may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us. In addition, our hotel property competes for guests with other hotels, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us and to the
manager of our one hotel, Marriott International, Inc.



Principal factors of competition in our primary business of owning, acquiring and developing office properties are the quality of properties, leasing terms (including rent and other charges and allowances
for tenant improvements), attractiveness and convenience of location, the quality and breadth of tenant services provided, and reputation as an owner and operator of quality office properties in the relevant market. Additionally, our ability to
compete depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, investment alternatives, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants, availability and cost of capital, construction and
renovation costs, taxes, utilities, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.



In addition, although not part of our core strategy, we are currently developing one residential property and operate two residential properties and may in the future decide to acquire or develop
additional residential properties. As an owner and operator of apartments, we will also face competition for prospective residents from other operators whose properties may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose
rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the resident seeks. We will also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Because we have limited experience with
residential properties, we expect to retain third parties to manage our residential properties.







Our Hotel Property





Seasonality



Our hotel property traditionally has experienced significant seasonality in its operating income, with the percentage of net operating
income by quarter over the year ended December 31, 2012 shown below.



First QuarterSecond QuarterThird QuarterFourth Quarter7%35%25%33%



Corporate Governance



Boston Properties is currently governed by a
ten member Board of Directors. The current members of our Board of Directors are Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Zoë Baird Budinger, Carol B. Einiger, Dr. Jacob A. Frenkel, Joel I. Klein, Douglas T. Linde, Matthew J. Lustig, Alan J.
Patricof, Martin Turchin and David A. Twardock.



At the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders, our stockholders approved an amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation (the “Charter”) that provides for the annual election of directors. As a result, all directors now stand for election for one-year terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders.



On September 11, 2012, Lawrence S. Bacow resigned as our
Director to devote more time to his other interests. Mr. Bacow has confirmed to our Board of Directors that his resignation was not due to a disagreement with us on any matter relating to our operations, policies or practices.



On January 24, 2013, Joel I. Klein was appointed as a
director to serve until the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors also appointed Mr. Klein to its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.







Our Board of Directors has Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committees. The membership of each of these committees is described below.



Name of DirectorAuditCompensationNominatingandCorporateGovernanceZoë Baird BudingerX*Carol B. EinigerXDr. Jacob A. FrenkelXJoel I. KleinXAlan J. PatricofX*XDavid A. TwardockXX*X



X=Committee
member, *=Chair



•Our Board of Directors has adopted charters for each of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. The Audit Committee
is comprised of three (3) independent directors. The Compensation Committee is comprised of two (2) independent directors. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is comprised of four (4) independent directors. A copy of
each of these charters is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Committees and Charters.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com
under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Guidelines.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs business decisions made and actions taken by our directors,
officers and employees. A copy of this code is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Code of Conduct and Ethics.” We intend to disclose on this
website any amendment to, or waiver of, any provisions of this Code applicable to our directors and executive officers that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange.



•Our Board of Directors has established an ethics reporting system that employees may use to anonymously report possible violations of the Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, including concerns regarding questionable accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, by telephone or over the internet.



New U.S. Income Tax Legislation



Pursuant to recently enacted legislation, as of
January 1, 2013, (1) the maximum tax rate on “qualified dividend income” for individuals is 20%, (2) the maximum tax rate on long-term capital gain for individuals is 20%, (3) the highest marginal individual income tax
rate is 39.6%, and (4) the backup withholding rate remains at 28%. Such legislation also temporarily (through 2013) reduces to five years the ten-year recognition period applicable to gain recognized on the disposition of an asset acquired from
a C corporation in a carryover basis transaction, as well as makes permanent certain federal income tax provisions that were scheduled to expire on December 31, 2012.



In addition, the effective date for U.S. withholding taxes
that may apply, in certain circumstances, under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, on the gross proceeds from the sale of our stock or notes or the Operating Partnership’s notes has been extended from payments after December 31, 2014
to payments after December 31, 2016.







