Item 1.Business



General



As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to Boston Properties, Inc., a
Delaware corporation organized in 1997, individually or together with its subsidiaries, including Boston Properties Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, and our predecessors. We are a fully integrated, self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or “REIT,” and one of the largest owners and developers of office properties in the United States.



Our properties have been concentrated in five markets—Boston, New York, Princeton, San Francisco and Washington, DC. Beginning in
fiscal 2014, Princeton will be reflected as the suburban component of the New York region. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiary, Boston Properties Limited Partnership. At December 31, 2013, we owned or had
interests in 175 properties, totaling approximately 44.4 million net rentable square feet, including nine properties under construction totaling approximately 2.9 million net rentable square feet. In addition, we had structured parking for
approximately 45,234 vehicles containing approximately 15.4 million square feet. Our properties consisted of:



•167 office properties, including 128 Class A office properties (including eight properties under construction) and 39 Office/Technical properties;



•one hotel;



•four retail properties; and



•three residential properties (one of which is under construction).



We own or control undeveloped land totaling approximately 503.6 acres, which could support approximately
12.4 million square feet of additional development.



We consider Class A office properties to be centrally-located buildings that are professionally managed and maintained, attract high-quality tenants and command upper-tier rental rates, and that are
modern structures or have been modernized to compete with newer buildings. We consider Office/Technical properties to be properties that support office, research and development, laboratory and other technical uses. Our definitions of Class A
office and Office/Technical properties may be different than those used by other companies.



We are a full-service real estate company, with substantial in-house expertise and resources in acquisitions, development, financing, capital markets, construction management, property management,
marketing, leasing, accounting, tax and legal services. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 760 employees. Our thirty-four senior officers have an average of twenty-nine years experience in the real estate industry, including an
average of nineteen years of experience with us. Our principal executive office and Boston regional office are located at The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199 and our telephone number is
(617) 236-3300. In addition, we have regional offices at 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022; Four Embarcadero Center, San Francisco, California 94111; and 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037.



Our Web site is located at http://www.bostonproperties.com.
On our Web site, you can obtain a free copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may also obtain our reports by accessing the EDGAR
database at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, or we will furnish an electronic or paper copy of these reports free of charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, Boston Properties, Inc., The Prudential Center,







800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199. The name “Boston Properties” and our logo (consisting of a stylized “b”) are registered service marks of Boston
Properties Limited Partnership.



Boston Properties Limited
Partnership



Boston
Properties Limited Partnership, or BPLP or our Operating Partnership, is a Delaware limited partnership, and the entity through which we conduct substantially all of our business and own, either directly or through subsidiaries, substantially all of
our assets. We are the sole general partner and, as of February 21, 2014, the owner of approximately 89.5% of the economic interests in BPLP. Economic interest was calculated as the number of common partnership units of BPLP owned by the
Company as a percentage of the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of BPLP, (2) the number of common partnership units issuable upon conversion of outstanding preferred partnership units of BPLP
and (3) the number of common units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of BPLP, or LTIP Units, other than LTIP Units issued in the form of Outperformance Awards (“OPP Awards”) and Multi-Year
Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards (“MYLTIP Awards”), assuming all conditions have been met for the conversion of the LTIP Units. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. An LTIP Unit is generally the economic equivalent of
a share of our restricted common stock, although LTIP Units issued in the form of OPP Awards or MYLTIP Awards are only entitled to receive one-tenth (1/10

th









right. In May 2014, our Operating Partnership also has the right, subject to certain conditions, to call for redemption all of the outstanding Series Two Preferred Units for cash or to convert
into OP Units any Series Two Preferred Units that have not been previously redeemed. In the event that our Operating Partnership calls the Series Two Preferred Units for redemption, the holders shall have the right to convert the Series Two
Preferred Units to OP Units. Due to the holders’ redemption option existing outside our control, the Series Two Preferred Units are presented outside of permanent equity in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.



The Series Four Preferred Units have a liquidation preference
of $50.00 per unit (or an aggregate of approximately $18.0 million at December 31, 2013 and February 21, 2014). The Series Four Preferred Units, which bear a preferred distribution equal to 2.00% per annum on a liquidation preference
of $50.00 per unit, are not convertible into or exchangeable for any common equity of BPLP or us. In order to secure the performance of certain obligations by the holders, such Series Four Preferred Units are subject to forfeiture pursuant to the
terms of a pledge agreement. The holders of Series Four Preferred Units have the right, at certain times and subject to certain conditions set forth in the Certificate of Designations establishing the rights, limitations and preferences of the
Series Four Preferred Units, to require our Operating Partnership to redeem all of their units for cash at the redemption price of $50.00 per unit. Our Operating Partnership also has the right, at certain times and subject to certain conditions, to
redeem all of the Series Four Preferred Units for cash at the redemption price of $50.00 per unit. The Series Four Preferred Units that are subject to the security interest under the pledge agreement may not be redeemed until and unless such
security interest is released. Due to the holders’ redemption option existing outside our control, the Series Four Preferred Units are presented outside of permanent equity in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.



The Series B Preferred Units have a liquidation preference of
$2,500.00 per share (or an aggregate of approximately $193.6 million at December 31, 2013 and February 21, 2014, after deducting the underwriting discount and transaction expenses). The Series B Preferred Units were issued by our Operating
Partnership on March 27, 2013 in connection with our issuance of 80,000 shares (8,000,000 depositary shares each representing 1/100th of a share) of 5.25% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred
Stock”). We contributed the net proceeds from the offering to our Operating Partnership in exchange for Series B Preferred Units having terms and preferences generally mirroring those of the Series B Preferred Stock. We will pay cumulative cash
dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock at a rate of 5.25% per annum of the $2,500.00 liquidation preference per share. We may not redeem the Series B Preferred Stock prior to March 27, 2018, except in certain circumstances relating to
the preservation of our REIT status. On or after March 27, 2018, at our option, we may redeem the Series B Preferred Stock for a cash redemption price of $2,500.00 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. The Series B Preferred Stock
is not redeemable by the holders, has no maturity date and is not convertible into any other security of the Company or its affiliates.



Transactions During 2013



Acquisitions



On February 6, 2013, we completed the acquisition of 535 Mission Street, a development site, in San Francisco, California for an
aggregate purchase price of approximately $71.0 million in cash, including work completed and materials purchased to date. When completed, 535 Mission Street will consist of a 27-story, Class A office tower with approximately 307,000 net
rentable square feet of office and retail space. The property is currently under development.



On March 26, 2013, a consolidated joint venture in which we have a 95% interest completed the acquisition of a land parcel in San Francisco, California that will support a 60-story, 1.4 million
square foot office tower known as Transbay Tower. The purchase price for the land was approximately $192.0 million. On February 7, 2013, the partner in the joint venture issued a notice that it was electing under the joint venture agreement to
reduce its nominal ownership interest in the venture from 50% to 5%. On February 26, 2013, we issued a notice to the partner electing to proceed with the venture on that basis. As a result, we have a 95% nominal interest in







and are consolidating the joint venture. The initial phase of the development consisting of building the project to grade is currently under development.



On March 29, 2013, we completed the acquisition of a
parcel of land located in Reston, Virginia for a purchase price of approximately $27.0 million. The land parcel is commercially zoned for 250,000 square feet of office space.



On April 10, 2013, we acquired the Mountain View
Research Park and Mountain View Technology Park properties from our Value-Added Fund (the “Value-Added Fund”) for an aggregate net purchase price of approximately $233.1 million. Mountain View Research Park is a 16-building complex of
Office/Technical properties aggregating approximately 604,000 net rentable square feet. Mountain View Technology Park is a seven-building complex of Office/Technical properties aggregating approximately 135,000 net rentable square feet. Prior to the
acquisition, our ownership interest in the properties was approximately 39.5%. As a result of the acquisition, we own 100% of the properties and account for them on a consolidated basis.



On May 31, 2013, our two joint venture partners in 767 Venture, LLC (the entity that owns 767 Fifth Avenue
(the General Motors Building) located in New York City) transferred all of their interests in the joint venture to third parties. 767 Fifth Avenue (the General Motors Building) is a Class A office property totaling approximately
1.8 million net rentable square feet. In connection with the transfer, we and our new joint venture partners modified our relative decision making authority and consent rights with respect to the joint venture’s assets and operations.
These changes resulted in us having sufficient financial and operating control over 767 Venture, LLC such that, effective as of May 31, 2013, we account for the assets, liabilities and operations of 767 Venture, LLC on a consolidated basis
in our financial statements instead of under the equity method of accounting.



Dispositions



On February 20, 2013, the foreclosure sale of our Montvale Center property was ratified by the court. As a result of the ratification, the mortgage loan totaling $25.0 million was extinguished and
the related obligations were satisfied with the transfer of the real estate resulting in the recognition of a gain on forgiveness of debt totaling approximately $20.2 million.



On June 28, 2013, we completed the sale of our 303
Almaden Boulevard property located in San Jose, California for a sale price of $40.0 million. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $39.3 million. 303 Almaden Boulevard is a Class A office property totaling approximately 158,000 net rentable
square feet. Because we entered into the related purchase and sale agreement on March 28, 2013 and the carrying value of the property exceeded its net sale price, we recognized an impairment loss totaling approximately $3.2 million during the
three months ended March 31, 2013. As a result, there was no loss on sale of real estate recognized during the year ended December 31, 2013. The sale of this asset caused us to reevaluate our strategy for development of our
adjacent Almaden land parcel, which can accommodate an approximately 840,000 square feet office complex. Based on a shorter than expected hold period, we reduced the carrying value of the land parcel to its estimated fair market value and
recognized an impairment loss of approximately $8.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013.



On August 22, 2013, we completed the sale of our 1301 New York Avenue property located in Washington, DC for a net contract sale
price of approximately $121.7 million. After adjusting for outstanding lease and other transaction costs assumed by the buyer, the gross sale price was approximately $135.0 million. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $121.5 million, resulting
in a gain on sale of approximately $86.4 million. 1301 New York Avenue is a Class A office property totaling approximately 201,000 net rentable square feet.



On October 9, 2013, we completed the sale of a 45%
ownership interest in our Times Square Tower property for a gross sale price of $684.0 million in cash. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $673.1 million,







after the payment of transaction costs. In connection with the sale, we formed a joint venture with the buyer and will provide customary property management and leasing services to the joint
venture. Times Square Tower is an approximately 1,246,000 net rentable square foot Class A office tower located in New York City. The transaction did not qualify as a sale of real estate for financial reporting purposes because we continue to
control the joint venture and will therefore continue to account for the entity on a consolidated basis in our financial statements. We have accounted for the transaction as an equity transaction and have recognized noncontrolling interest in our
consolidated balance sheets totaling approximately $243.5 million, which is equal to 45% of the carrying value of the total equity of the property immediately prior to the transaction. The difference between the net cash proceeds received and the
noncontrolling interest recognized, which difference totals approximately $429.6 million, has not been reflected as a gain on sale of real estate in our consolidated statements of operations and has instead been reflected as an increase to
additional paid-in capital in our consolidated balance sheets.



On December 20, 2013, we completed the sale of our 10 & 20 Burlington Mall Road property located in Burlington, Massachusetts for a sale price of approximately $30.0 million. Net cash
proceeds totaled approximately $29.4 million, resulting in a gain on sale of approximately $20.5 million. 10 & 20 Burlington Mall Road consists of two Class A office properties aggregating approximately 152,000 net rentable square
feet.



On December 20, 2013, we completed the
sale of our One Preserve Parkway property located in Rockville, Maryland for a sale price of approximately $61.3 million. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $59.9 million, resulting in a gain on sale of approximately $5.9 million. One Preserve
Parkway is a Class A office property totaling approximately 184,000 net rentable square feet.



Developments



As of December 31, 2013, we had nine properties under construction comprised of eight office properties and one residential property, which aggregate approximately 2.9 million square feet. We
estimate the total investment to complete these projects, in the aggregate, is approximately $2.5 billion of which we had already invested approximately $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2013. The investment through December 31, 2013 and
estimated total investment for our properties under construction as of December 31, 2013 are detailed below (in thousands):



Construction PropertiesEstimatedStabilization DateLocationInvestmentto Date(1)Estimated 
TotalInvestment(1)OfficeAnnapolis Junction Building Seven (50% ownership)First Quarter, 2015Annapolis, MD$11,580$17,500680 Folsom StreetThird Quarter, 2015San Francisco, CA279,923340,000250 West 55thStreetFourth Quarter, 2015New York, NY840,3171,050,000804 Carnegie CenterFirst Quarter, 2016Princeton, NJ1,97040,410535 Mission StreetThird Quarter, 2016San Francisco, CA113,275215,000601 Massachusetts AvenueFourth Quarter, 2017Washington, DC155,310360,760Transbay Tower (95% ownership)(2)N/ASan Francisco, CA244,082340,000Total Office Properties under Construction$1,646,457$2,363,670ResidentialThe Avant at Reston Town Center (359 units)Fourth Quarter, 2015Reston, VA$109,194$137,250Total Properties under Construction$1,755,651$2,500,920



(1)Represents our share. Includes net revenue during lease up period and approximately $53.9 million of construction cost and leasing commission accruals.

(2)The Estimated Total Investment represents only the cost to build to grade.







On March 22, 2013, we completed and fully placed in-service Two Patriots Park, a
Class A office redevelopment project with approximately 256,000 net rentable square feet located in Reston, Virginia. As of December 31, 2013, this property was 100% leased.



On April 1, 2013, we commenced construction on the initial phase of our Transbay Tower development project
in San Francisco, California, which consists of building the project to grade.



On April 25, 2013, we commenced construction of our 601 Massachusetts Avenue, a Class A office development project totaling approximately 478,000 net rentable square feet located in Washington,
DC.



On June 14, 2013, we completed and fully
placed in-service Seventeen Cambridge Center, a Class A office project with approximately 195,000 net rentable square feet located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. As of December 31, 2013, this property was 100% leased.



On July 1, 2013, we completed and fully placed
in-service our Cambridge Center Connector, a Class A office project with approximately 43,000 net rentable square feet located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. As of December 31, 2013, this property was 100% leased.



On October 29, 2013, we entered into a lease agreement
as landlord with a third-party tenant for a build-to-suit project with approximately 130,000 net rentable square feet of Class A office space located in Princeton, New Jersey.



As of December 31, 2013, we have placed in-service
approximately 63% of The Avant at Reston Town Center development project comprised of 359 apartment units and retail space aggregating approximately 355,000 square feet located in Reston, Virginia. The retail space totaling approximately 26,000 net
rentable square feet is 100% leased and the residential units are approximately 17% leased as of February 21, 2014. On February 10, 2014, this project was fully placed in-service.



As of December 31, 2013, we have placed in-service approximately 6% of our 250 West 55th Street
development project. When completed, this project will consist of approximately 989,000 net rentable square feet of Class A office space and is approximately 61% leased as of February 21, 2014.



As of December 31, 2013, we have placed in-service
approximately 1% of our 680 Folsom Street development project. When completed, this project will consist of approximately 524,509 net rentable square feet of Class A office space and is approximately 96% leased as of February 21, 2014.



Secured Debt Transactions



On February 5, 2013, we used available cash to repay
the mortgage loan collateralized by our Kingstowne One property located in Alexandria, Virginia totaling approximately $17.0 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 5.96% per annum and was scheduled to mature on May 5,
2013. There was no prepayment penalty.



On
February 20, 2013, the foreclosure sale of our Montvale Center property was ratified by the court. As a result of the ratification, the mortgage loan totaling $25.0 million was extinguished and the related obligations were satisfied with the
transfer of the real estate resulting in the recognition of a gain on forgiveness of debt totaling approximately $20.2 million.



On April 1, 2013, we used available cash to repay the mortgage loan collateralized by our 140 Kendrick Street property located in
Needham, Massachusetts totaling approximately $47.6 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 7.51% per annum and was scheduled to mature on July 1, 2013. There was no prepayment penalty. We recognized a gain on early
extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $0.3 million







related to the acceleration of the remaining balance of the historical fair value debt adjustment, which was the result of purchase accounting.





Unsecured Senior Notes



On April 11, 2013, our Operating Partnership completed a public offering of $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its
3.125% senior unsecured notes due 2023. The notes were priced at 99.379% of the principal amount to yield an effective rate (including financing fees) of 3.279% to maturity. The notes will mature on September 1, 2023, unless earlier redeemed.
The aggregate net proceeds from the offering were approximately $492.5 million after deducting underwriting discounts and transaction expenses.



On June 27, 2013, our Operating Partnership completed a public offering of $700.0 million in aggregate principal amount of its 3.800%
senior unsecured notes due 2024. The notes were priced at 99.694% of the principal amount to yield an effective rate (including financing fees) of 3.916% to maturity. The notes will mature on February 1, 2024, unless earlier redeemed. The
aggregate net proceeds from the offering were approximately $691.9 million after deducting the underwriting discount and transaction expenses.



Unsecured Exchangeable Senior Notes



On April 15, 2013, we announced that holders of our Operating Partnership’s 3.75% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2036 (the
“Notes”) had the right to surrender their Notes for purchase by our Operating Partnership (the “Put Right”) on May 18, 2013. On April 15, 2013, we also announced that our Operating Partnership issued a notice of
redemption to the holders of the Notes to redeem, on May 18, 2013 (the “Redemption Date”), all of the Notes outstanding on the Redemption Date. In connection with the notice of redemption, holders of the Notes had the right to
exchange their Notes on or prior to May 16, 2013. Notes with respect to which the Put Right was not exercised and that were not surrendered for exchange on or prior to May 16, 2013, were redeemed by our Operating Partnership at a
redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the Redemption Date. Based on final information provided to our Operating Partnership by the trustee for the Notes, no
Notes were validly tendered and accepted for purchase in the Put Right. Pursuant to the notice of redemption, an aggregate principal amount of $990,000 of the Notes was redeemed on May 18, 2013. The remaining aggregate principal amount of
$449,010,000 of the Notes was surrendered for exchange and, in addition to the repayment of the principal in cash, we issued an aggregate of







419,116 shares of our common stock in exchange for the Notes. We recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately $0.1 million consisting of transaction costs.



Unsecured Line of Credit





Equity Transactions



On March 27, 2013, we completed an underwritten public offering of 80,000 shares (8,000,000 depositary shares, each representing 1/100th of a share) of our newly designated 5.25% Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock, at a price of $2,500.00 per share ($25.00 per depositary share). The net proceeds from this offering were approximately $194 million, after deducting the underwriting discount and transaction expenses. We contributed the
net proceeds from the offering to our Operating Partnership in exchange for 80,000 Series B Preferred Units having terms and preferences generally mirroring those of the Series B Preferred Stock.



On August 29, 2013, our Operating Partnership redeemed
approximately 861,400 Series Four Preferred Units for cash at the redemption price of $50.00 per unit plus accrued and unpaid distributions through the redemption date.



During the year ended December 31, 2013, we acquired an
aggregate of 929,441 common units of limited partnership interest, including 26,402 common units issued upon the conversion of LTIP units and 432,914 issued upon the conversion of Series Two preferred units, presented by the holders for redemption,
in exchange for an equal number of shares of common stock.



Special Dividend



On December 2, 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $2.25 per common share payable on January 29, 2014 to shareholders of record as of the
close of business on December 31, 2013. The decision to declare a special dividend was primarily a result of the sale of a 45% interest in our Times Square Tower property in October 2013. The Board of Directors did not make any change in our
policy with respect to regular quarterly dividends. Holders of common units of limited partnership interest in our Operating Partnership, as of the close of business on December 31, 2013, received the same distribution on January 29, 2014.
Holders of Series Two Preferred Units of limited partnership interest will participate in the special cash dividend (separately from their regular February 2014 distribution) on an as-converted basis in







connection with their regular May 2014 distribution payment as provided in our Operating Partnership’s partnership agreement.



Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures



On February 28, 2013, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest completed and fully placed
in-service Annapolis Junction Building Six, a Class A office property with approximately 119,000 net rentable square feet located in Annapolis, Maryland. As of December 31, 2013, this property was approximately 49% leased.



On March 31, 2013, a joint venture in which we have a
30% interest completed and fully placed in-service 500 North Capitol Street, NW, a Class A office redevelopment project with approximately 231,000 net rentable square feet located in Washington, DC. As of December 31, 2013, this property
was approximately 85% leased.



On April 4,
2013, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest obtained construction financing collateralized by its Annapolis Junction Building Seven development project located in Annapolis, Maryland totaling $22.0 million. The construction financing bears
interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.65% per annum and matures on April 4, 2016, with two, one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions.





On May 30, 2013, a joint venture in which we have a 60% interest completed the sale of its 125 West 55th Street property located in
New York City for a sale price of $470.0 million, including the assumption by the buyer of the mortgage loan collateralized by the property totaling approximately $198.6 million. The mortgage loan bore interest at a fixed rate of 6.09% per
annum and was scheduled to mature on March 10, 2020. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $253.7 million, of which our share was approximately $152.2 million, after the payment of transaction costs. 125 West 55th Street is a Class A
office property totaling approximately 588,000 net rentable square feet. We had previously recognized an impairment loss on our investment in the unconsolidated joint venture. As a result, we recognized a gain on sale of real estate totaling
approximately $43.2 million, which is included within income from unconsolidated joint ventures in our consolidated statements of operations.



On May 31, 2013, our two joint venture partners in 767 Venture, LLC (the entity that owns 767 Fifth Avenue (the General Motors
Building) located in New York City) transferred all of their interests in the joint venture to third parties. In connection with the transfer, we and our new joint venture partners modified our relative decision making authority and consent rights
with respect to the joint venture’s assets and operations. These changes resulted in us having sufficient financial and operating control over 767 Venture, LLC such that we now account for the assets, liabilities and operations of 767 Venture,
LLC on a consolidated basis in our







financial statements instead of under the equity method of accounting. Upon consolidation, we recognized a non-cash gain on our investment of approximately $359.5 million, which is included
within gains on consolidation of joint ventures in our consolidated statements of operations.



On May 31, 2013, a joint venture in which we have a 30% interest refinanced its construction loan collateralized by 500 North Capitol Street, NW located in Washington, DC. The construction loan
totaling approximately $90.6 million bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.65% per annum and was scheduled to mature on October 14, 2014. The joint venture recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt totaling
approximately $1.0 million, of which our share was approximately $0.3 million, consisting of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs. The new mortgage loan totaling $105.0 million requires interest only payments at a fixed interest
rate of 4.15% per annum and matures on June 6, 2023.



On June 5, 2013, a joint venture in which we have a 60% interest refinanced its mortgage loans collateralized by 540 Madison Avenue located in New York City. The mortgage loans aggregating
approximately $118.0 million bore interest at a weighted-average fixed rate of 5.20% per annum and were scheduled to mature on July 11, 2013. The joint venture recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt totaling approximately
$0.3 million, of which our share was approximately $0.2 million, related to the acceleration of the remaining balance of the historical fair value debt adjustment, which was the result of purchase accounting. The new mortgage loan totaling
$120.0 million requires interest only payments at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.50% per annum and matures on June 5, 2018.



On July 19, 2013, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest completed the sale of its Eighth Avenue and 46th Street project
located in New York City for an imputed sale price of $45.0 million. The Eighth Avenue and 46th Street project is comprised of an assemblage of land parcels and air-rights. Net cash proceeds to us totaled approximately $21.8 million, after the
payment of transaction costs. The joint venture had previously recognized an impairment loss on the property. As a result, the joint venture recognized a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $12.6 million, of which our share was
approximately $11.3 million. Our share of the gain on sale of real estate is reflective of our share of the net proceeds from the sale price and is included within income from unconsolidated joint ventures in our consolidated statements of
operations.



On September 26, 2013, a joint
venture in which we have a 50% interest entered into a lease agreement for its Annapolis Junction Building Seven development project. Annapolis Junction Building Seven when completed will consist of a Class A office property with approximately
125,000 net rentable square feet located in Annapolis, Maryland.



On October 29, 2013, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest exercised an option to extend the maturity date to November 17, 2014 of the construction financing collateralized by its
Annapolis Junction Building Six property. The construction financing totaling approximately $14.0 million bears interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.65% per annum and was scheduled to mature on November 17, 2013. Annapolis
Junction Building Six is a Class A office property with approximately 119,000 net rentable square feet located in Annapolis, Maryland.



Stock Option and Incentive Plan



On January 28, 2013, our Compensation Committee approved a new equity-based, multi-year, long-term incentive program (the “2013
MYLTIP”) in lieu of an Outperformance Plan as a performance-based component of our overall compensation program. Under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718
“Compensation—Stock Compensation,” the 2013 MYLTIP has an aggregate value of approximately $8.1 million, which amount will generally be amortized into earnings over the five-year plan period under the graded vesting method.







On February 1, 2013, we issued 35,087 shares of restricted common stock and our
Operating Partnership issued 153,006 LTIP units and 201,373 non-qualified stock options under the 2012 Plan to certain of our employees.



Succession Planning





On April 2, 2013, we issued 24,231 LTIP units, 38,926 2013 MYLTIP Units and 50,847 non-qualified stock options under the 2012 Plan to Owen D. Thomas, our new Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to his
employment agreement.



Business and Growth
Strategies



Business Strategies



Our primary business objective is to maximize return on
investment so as to provide our investors with the greatest possible total return in all points of the economic cycle. Our strategies to achieve this objective are:



•to target a few carefully selected geographic markets, including Boston, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC, and to be one of the leading, if
not the leading, owners, developers and managers in each of those markets with a full-service office in each market providing property management, leasing, development, construction and legal expertise. We select markets and submarkets with a
diverse economic base and a deep pool of prospective tenants in various industries and where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities;



•to emphasize markets and submarkets within those markets where the lack of available sites and the difficulty of receiving the necessary approvals for
development and the necessary financing constitute high barriers to the creation of new supply, and where skill, financial strength and diligence are required to successfully develop, finance and manage high-quality office, research and development
space, as well as selected retail and residential space;



•to take on complex, technically challenging development projects, leveraging the skills of our management team to successfully develop, acquire or
reposition properties that other organizations may not have the capacity or resources to pursue;



•to own and develop high-quality real estate designed to meet the demands of today’s tenants who require sophisticated telecommunications and
related infrastructure, support services and amenities, and to manage those facilities so as to become the landlord of choice for both existing and prospective clients;







•to opportunistically acquire assets which increase our penetration in the markets in which we have chosen to concentrate, as well as potential new
markets, which exhibit an opportunity to improve or preserve returns through repositioning (through a combination of capital improvements and shift in marketing strategy), changes in management focus and leasing;



•to explore joint venture opportunities primarily with existing property owners located in desirable locations, who seek to benefit from the depth of
development and management expertise we are able to provide and our access to capital, and/or to explore joint venture opportunities with strategic institutional partners, leveraging our skills as owners, operators and developers of Class A
office space and mixed-use complexes;



•to pursue on a selective basis the sale of properties or interests therein, including core properties, to either (1) take advantage of the demand
for our premier properties and realize the value we have created or (2) pare from our portfolio of properties that we believe have slower future growth potential;



•to seek third-party development contracts, which can be a significant source of revenue and enable us to retain and utilize our existing development
and construction management staff, especially when our internal development is less active or when new development is less-warranted due to market conditions; and



•to enhance our capital structure through our access to a variety of sources of capital and proactively manage our debt expirations.



Growth Strategies



External Growth Strategies



We believe that our development experience and our
organizational depth position us to continue to selectively develop a range of property types, including high-rise urban developments, mixed-use developments (including residential), low-rise suburban office properties and research and laboratory
space, within budget and on schedule. We believe we are also well positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:



•our control of sites (including sites under contract or option to acquire) in our markets that could support approximately 12.4 million additional
square feet of new office, retail, and residential development;



•our reputation gained through 44 years of successful operations and the stability and strength of our existing portfolio of properties;



•our relationships with leading national corporations, universities and public institutions seeking new facilities and development services;



•our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the real estate industry;



•our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions efficiently provide comfort to domestic and foreign institutions, private investors and
corporations who seek to sell commercial real estate in our market areas;



•our ability to act quickly on due diligence and financing; and



•our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality real estate assets.



Opportunities to execute our external growth strategy fall
into three categories:



•Development in selected submarkets.We believe the additional development of well-positioned office buildings and mixed use complexes could be
justified in many of our submarkets. We believe in acquiring land after taking into consideration timing factors relating to economic cycles and in response to market conditions that allow for its development at the appropriate time. While we
purposely







concentrate in markets with high barriers-to-entry, we have demonstrated throughout our 44-year history, an ability to make carefully timed land acquisitions in submarkets where we can become one
of the market leaders in establishing rent and other business terms. We believe that there are opportunities at key locations in our existing and other markets for a well-capitalized developer to acquire land with development potential.



In the past, we have been
particularly successful at acquiring sites or options to purchase sites that need governmental approvals for development. Because of our development expertise, knowledge of the governmental approval process and reputation for quality development
with local government regulatory bodies, we generally have been able to secure the permits necessary to allow development and to profit from the resulting increase in land value. We seek complex projects where we can add value through the efforts of
our experienced and skilled management team leading to attractive returns on investment.



Our strong regional relationships and recognized development expertise have enabled us to capitalize on unique build-to-suit opportunities. We intend to seek and expect to continue to be presented with
such opportunities in the near term allowing us to earn relatively significant returns on these development opportunities through multiple business cycles.



•Acquisition of assets and portfolios of assets from institutions or individuals.We believe that due to our size, management strength and
reputation, we are well positioned to acquire portfolios of assets or individual properties from institutions or individuals if valuations meet our criteria. In addition, we believe that our market knowledge and our liquidity and access to capital
may provide us with a competitive advantage when pursuing acquisitions. There may be enhanced opportunities to purchase assets with near-term financing maturities or possibly provide debt on assets at enhanced yields given the limited availability
of traditional sources of debt. Opportunities to acquire properties may also come through the purchase of first mortgage or mezzanine debt. We may also acquire properties for cash, but we are also particularly well-positioned to appeal to sellers
wishing to contribute on a tax-deferred basis their ownership of property for equity in a diversified real estate operating company that offers liquidity through access to the public equity markets in addition to a quarterly distribution. Our
ability to offer common and preferred units of limited partnership in BPLP to sellers who would otherwise recognize a taxable gain upon a sale of assets or our common stock may facilitate this type of transaction on a tax-efficient basis. In
addition, we may consider mergers with and acquisitions of compatible real estate firms.



•Acquisition of underperforming assets and portfolios of assets. We believe that because of our in-depth market knowledge and development
experience in each of our markets, our national reputation with brokers, financial institutions and others involved in the real estate market and our access to competitively-priced capital, we are well-positioned to identify and acquire existing,
underperforming properties for competitive prices and to add significant additional value to such properties through our effective marketing strategies, repositioning/redevelopment expertise and a responsive property management program. We have
developed this strategy and program for our existing portfolio, where we provide high-quality property management services using our own employees in order to encourage tenants to renew, expand and relocate in our properties. We are able to achieve
speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house and third-party vendors’ services for marketing, including calls and presentations to prospective tenants, print advertisements, lease negotiation
and construction of tenant improvements. Our tenants benefit from cost efficiencies produced by our experienced work force, which is attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management.



Internal Growth Strategies



We believe that opportunities will exist to increase cash
flow from our existing properties because they are of high quality and in desirable locations within markets where, in general, the creation of new supply is limited







by the lack of available sites and the difficulty of obtaining the necessary approvals for development on vacant land and financing. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these
opportunities is three-fold: (1) to provide high-quality property management services using our employees in order to encourage tenants to renew, expand and relocate in our properties, (2) to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency
in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house services for marketing, lease negotiation and construction of tenant improvements and (3) to work with new or existing tenants with space expansion or contraction needs maximizing the
cash flow from our assets. We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:



•Cultivate existing submarkets and long-term relationships with credit tenants.In choosing locations for our properties, we have paid particular
attention to transportation and commuting patterns, physical environment, adjacency to established business centers, proximity to sources of business growth and other local factors.



The average lease term of our in-place leases, including
unconsolidated joint ventures, was approximately 6.6 years at December 31, 2013 and we continue to cultivate long-term leasing relationships with a diverse base of high-quality, financially stable tenants. Based on leases in place at
December 31, 2013, leases with respect to approximately 6.2% of the total square feet in our portfolio, including unconsolidated joint ventures, will expire in calendar year 2014.



•Directly manage properties to maximize the potential for tenant retention.We provide property management services ourselves, rather than
contracting for this service, to maintain awareness of and responsiveness to tenant needs. We and our properties also benefit from cost efficiencies produced by an experienced work force attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management and
from our continuing programs to assure that our property management personnel at all levels remain aware of their important role in tenant relations.



•Replace tenants quickly at best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract
new tenants and achieve relatively high rental rates as a result of our well-located, well- designed and well-maintained properties, our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer expansion
and relocation alternatives within our submarkets.



•Extend terms of existing leases to existing tenants prior to expiration. We have also successfully structured early tenant renewals, which have
reduced the cost associated with lease downtime while securing the tenancy of our highest quality credit-worthy tenants on a long-term basis and enhancing relationships.



Policies with Respect to Certain Activities



The discussion below sets forth certain additional
information regarding our investment, financing and other policies. These policies have been determined by our Board of Directors and, in general, may be amended or revised from time to time by our Board of Directors.



Investment Policies



Investments in Real Estate or Interests in Real Estate



Our investment objectives are to provide
quarterly cash dividends to our securityholders and to achieve long-term capital appreciation through increases in the value of Boston Properties, Inc. We have not established a specific policy regarding the relative priority of these investment
objectives.



We expect to continue to pursue our
investment objectives primarily through the ownership of our current properties, development projects and other acquired properties. We currently intend to continue to invest primarily in developments of properties and acquisitions of existing
improved properties or properties in need of redevelopment, and acquisitions of land that we believe have development potential, primarily in our existing







markets of Boston, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC, but also potentially in new markets. Future investment or development activities will not be limited to a specified percentage of
our assets. We intend to engage in such future investment or development activities in a manner that is consistent with the maintenance of our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In addition, we may purchase or lease income-producing
commercial and other types of properties for long-term investment, expand and improve the real estate presently owned or other properties purchased, or sell such real estate properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances warrant. We do not have
a policy that restricts the amount or percentage of assets that will be invested in any specific property, however, our investments may be restricted by our debt covenants.



We may also continue to participate with third parties in
property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership, including third parties with expertise in mixed-use opportunities. These investments may permit us to own interests in larger assets without unduly restricting
diversification and, therefore, add flexibility in structuring our portfolio.



Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such financing or indebtedness as may be incurred in connection with acquiring or refinancing these investments.
Debt service on such financing or indebtedness will have a priority over any distributions with respect to our common stock. Investments are also subject to our policy not to be treated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of
1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”).



Investments in Real Estate Mortgages



While our current portfolio consists primarily of, and our business objectives emphasize, equity investments in commercial real estate, we
may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, invest in mortgages and other types of real estate interests consistent with our qualification as a REIT. Investments in real estate mortgages run the risk that one or more borrowers may default
under such mortgages and that the collateral securing such mortgages may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup our full investment. We may invest in participating, convertible or traditional mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the
cash flow, or any appreciation in value of the property or as an entrance to the fee ownership.



Securities of or Interests in Entities Primarily Engaged in Real Estate Activities



Subject to the percentage of ownership limitations and gross income and asset tests necessary for our REIT qualification, we also may
invest in securities of other REITs, other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers, including for the purpose of exercising control over such entities.



Dispositions



Our decision to dispose or partially dispose of properties is based upon the periodic review of our portfolio and the determination by the
Board of Directors that such action would be in our best interests. Any decision to dispose of a property will be authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof. Some holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP, including Mortimer
B. Zuckerman, could incur adverse tax consequences upon the sale of certain of our properties that differ from the tax consequences to us. Consequently, holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP may have different objectives regarding the
appropriate pricing and timing of any such sale. Such different tax treatment derives in most cases from the fact that we acquired these properties in exchange for partnership interests in contribution transactions structured to allow the prior
owners to defer taxable gain. Generally this deferral continues so long as we do not dispose of the properties in a taxable transaction. Unless a sale by us of these properties is structured as a like-kind exchange under Section 1031 of the
Internal Revenue Code or in a manner that otherwise allows deferral to continue, recognition of the deferred tax gain allocable to these prior owners is generally triggered by a sale. Some of our assets are subject to tax protection agreements,
which may limit our ability to dispose of the assets or require us to pay damages to the prior owners in the event of a taxable sale.







Financing Policies



The agreement of limited partnership of BPLP and our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur. We do not have a policy limiting the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. However, our mortgages, credit facilities and unsecured
debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. We have not established any limit on the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any single property or on our
portfolio as a whole.



Our Board of Directors will
consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and when making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, including the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of
our properties upon refinancing, the entering into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts and the ability of particular properties and BPLP as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected
debt service.



Policies with Respect to Other Activities



As the sole general partner of BPLP, we
have the authority to issue additional common and preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP. We have in the past, and may in the future, issue common or preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP to persons who contribute
their direct or indirect interests in properties to us in exchange for such common or preferred units of limited partnership interest in BPLP. We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of issuers other
than BPLP and we do not intend to do so. At all times, we intend to make investments in such a manner as to maintain our qualification as a REIT, unless because of circumstances or changes in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the
Treasury Regulations), our Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to qualify as a REIT. We may make loans to third parties, including, without limitation, to joint ventures in which we participate or in connection
with the disposition of a property. We intend to make investments in such a way that we will not be treated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Our policies with respect to these and other activities may be reviewed and modified or amended
from time to time by the Board of Directors.



Sustainability



As one of the largest owners and
developers of office properties in the United States, we actively work to promote our growth and operations in a sustainable and responsible manner across our four regions. We focus our sustainability initiatives on the design and construction of
our new developments, the operation of our existing buildings and our internal corporate practices. Our sustainability initiatives are centered on energy efficiency, waste reduction and water preservation, as well as making a positive impact on the
communities in which we conduct business. Through these efforts we demonstrate that operating and developing commercial real estate can be conducted with a conscious regard for the environment while mutually benefiting our tenants, investors,
employees and the communities in which we operate. We provide disclosure on our website to increase the transparency of our sustainability program, which we periodically update with current or additional information. You may access our
sustainability report on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Sustainability.”



Competition



We compete in the leasing of office, retail and residential space with a considerable number of other real estate companies, some of which
may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us. In addition, our hotel property competes for guests with other hotels, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us and to the
manager of our one hotel, Marriott International, Inc.







Principal factors of competition in our primary business of owning, acquiring and developing
office properties are the quality of properties, leasing terms (including rent and other charges and allowances for tenant improvements), attractiveness and convenience of location, the quality and breadth of tenant services provided, and reputation
as an owner and operator of quality office properties in the relevant market. Additionally, our ability to compete depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national and local economies, investment alternatives, financial condition and
operating results of current and prospective tenants, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, utilities, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.



In addition, although not part of our core strategy, we are
currently developing one residential property and operate two residential properties and may in the future decide to acquire or develop additional residential properties. As an owner and operator of apartments, we will also face competition for
prospective residents from other operators whose properties may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the resident seeks. We will
also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Because we have limited experience with residential properties, we expect to retain third parties to manage our residential properties.



Our Hotel Property





Seasonality



Our hotel property traditionally has experienced significant
seasonality in its operating income, with the percentage of net operating income by quarter over the year ended December 31, 2013 shown below.



First QuarterSecond QuarterThird QuarterFourth Quarter11%32%34%23%



Corporate Governance



Boston Properties is currently governed by an
eleven member Board of Directors. The current members of our Board of Directors are Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Zoë Baird Budinger, Carol B. Einiger, Dr. Jacob A. Frenkel, Joel I. Klein, Douglas T. Linde, Matthew J. Lustig, Alan J.
Patricof, Owen D. Thomas, Martin Turchin and David







A. Twardock. All directors stand for election for one-year terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders.



Our Board of Directors has Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. The
membership of each of these committees is described below.



Name of DirectorAuditCompensationNominatingandCorporateGovernanceZoë Baird BudingerXCarol B. EinigerXDr. Jacob A. FrenkelXX*Joel I. KleinXXAlan J. PatricofX*XDavid A. TwardockXX*



X=Committee
member, *=Chair



•Our Board of Directors has adopted charters for each of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. A copy of each of
these charters is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Committees and Charters.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com
under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Guidelines.”



•Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs business decisions made and actions taken by our directors,
officers and employees. A copy of this code is available on our website at http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Code of Conduct and Ethics.” We intend to disclose on this
website any amendment to, or waiver of, any provisions of this Code applicable to our directors and executive officers that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange.



•Our Board of Directors has established an ethics reporting system that employees may use to anonymously report possible violations of the Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, including concerns regarding questionable accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, by telephone or over the internet.



•Our Board of Directors has adopted a Policy on Company Political Spending, a copy of which is available on our website at
http://www.bostonproperties.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Policy on Political Spending.”



Supplemental U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations



As of January 1, 2013, (1) the maximum tax rate on
“qualified dividend income” for individuals is 20%, (2) the maximum tax rate on long-term capital gain for individuals is 20%, (3) the highest marginal individual income tax rate is 39.6%, and (4) the backup withholding rate
remains at 28%.



In addition, the effective date
for U.S. withholding taxes that may apply, in certain circumstances, under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, has been extended. In particular, withholding on interest and dividends now applies starting June 30, 2014, and withholding on
gross proceeds from the sale of our stock or our Operating Partnership’s notes now applies starting December 31, 2016.







