ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General Information

Fifth Third Bancorp, an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is a bank holding company as defined by the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), and is registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”). The Bancorp’s principal office is located in Cincinnati, Ohio.

The Bancorp’s subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial products and services to the retail, commercial,
financial, governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide variety of checking, savings and money market accounts, and credit products such as credit cards, installment loans, mortgage loans and leases. Fifth Third Bank has deposit
insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) through the Deposit Insurance Fund. Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as an attachment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of
December 31, 2010.

The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the U.S. Revenue from foreign
countries and external customers domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Additional information regarding the Bancorp’s businesses is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Competition

The Bancorp
competes for deposits, loans and other banking services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to the challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking
services, the Bancorp’s competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and insurance companies. These competitors, with focused products targeted at highly profitable customer segments, compete across
geographic boundaries and provide customers increasing access to meaningful alternatives to banking services in nearly all significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in
technology, product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. These competitive trends are likely to continue.

Acquisitions

The Bancorp’s strategy for growth includes strengthening
its presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and broadening its product offerings while taking into account the integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due
diligence activities in connection with possible transactions. As a result, discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur. These typically involve the payment
of a premium over book value and current market price, and therefore, some dilution of book value and net income per share may occur with any future transactions.

Additional information regarding acquisitions is included in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Regulation and Supervision

In addition to the generally applicable state and federal laws governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state laws and
regulations applicable to financial





130Fifth Third Bancorp




institutions and their parent companies. Virtually all aspects of the business of the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank are subject to specific requirements or restrictions and general regulatory
oversight. The principal objectives of state and federal banking laws are the maintenance of the safety and soundness of financial institutions and the federal deposit insurance system and the protection of consumers or classes of consumers, rather
than the specific protection of shareholders of a bank or the parent company of a bank, such as the Bancorp. In addition, the supervision, regulation and examination of the Bancorp and its subsidiaries by the bank regulatory agencies is not intended
for the protection of the Bancorp’s security holders. To the extent the following material describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statute or regulation.

The Bancorp is subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions (the
“Division”). The Bancorp is required to file various reports with, and is subject to examination by, the FRB and the Division. The FRB has the authority to issue orders to bank holding companies to cease and desist from unsound banking
practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of agreements with, the FRB. The FRB is also empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or individuals who violate the BHCA or orders or regulations there under, to
order termination of non-banking activities of non-banking subsidiaries of bank holding companies, and to order termination of ownership and control of a non-banking subsidiary by a bank holding company. Applicable state and federal law also grant
the FRB and the Division the authority to impose additional requirements and restrictions on the activities of the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank and, in some situations, the imposition of such additional requirements and restrictions will not be
publicly available information.

The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB, for a bank holding company
to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank or to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any bank, bank holding company or savings association, or to increase any such non-majority
ownership or control of any bank, bank holding company or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with any bank holding company.

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 generally authorizes bank holding companies to acquire banks located in any state, subject to certain state-imposed age and deposit
concentration limits, and also generally authorizes interstate bank holding company and bank mergers and to a lesser extent, interstate branching.

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLBA”) permits a qualifying bank holding company to become a financial holding company (“FHC”) and thereby to engage
directly or indirectly in a broader range of activities than those permitted for a bank holding company under the BHCA. Permitted activities for a FHC include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant
banking and other activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation with the Treasury Department, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or are declared by the FRB unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial
activities. In addition, a FHC is allowed to conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the FRB. A bank holding company may elect to become a FHC if each of its
subsidiary banks is well capitalized, is well managed and has at least a “Satisfactory” rating under the Community

Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). Dodd-Frank also extended the well capitalized and well managed requirement to the bank holding company. In 2000, the Bancorp elected and qualified for FHC
status under the GLBA. To maintain FHC status, a holding company must continue to meet certain requirements. The failure to meet such requirements could result in restrictions on the activities of the FHC or loss of FHC status. If restrictions are
imposed on the activities of an FHC, such information may not necessarily be available to the public.

Unless
a bank holding company becomes a FHC under GLBA, the BHCA also prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of a company that is not a bank or a bank
holding company and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its subsidiary banks, except that it may engage in and may own shares of companies engaged in
certain activities the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be proper incident thereto.

The FRB has authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or
unsound practice for bank holding companies to pay dividends unless a bank holding company’s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s capital needs,
asset quality and overall financial condition. The Bancorp depends in part upon dividends received from its subsidiary bank to fund its activities, including the payment of dividends and its subsidiary bank is subject to regulatory limitations on
the amount of dividends it may declare and pay.

Under FRB policy, a bank holding company is expected to act
as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to their support. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide it.

The Bancorp’s subsidiary bank is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and examination by the Division,
the FRB, and the FDIC, which insures the deposits of the Bancorp’s subsidiary bank to the maximum extent permitted by law. The federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable to banks regulate, among other matters, the scope of their
business, their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual and related borrowers and the nature, amount of and collateral for certain loans, and the amount of
interest that may be charged on loans. Various federal and state consumer laws and regulations also affect the operations of banks.

In 2006, the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 was signed into law (“FDIRA”). Pursuant to the FDIRA, the Bank Insurance Fund and Savings Association Fund were merged to create the
Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). The FDIC was granted broader authority in adjusting deposit insurance premium rates and more flexibility in establishing the designated reserve ratio.

As contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act the FDIC has revised the framework by which insured depository institutions
with more than $10 billion in assets (“large IDIs”) are assessed for purposes of payments to the DIF. The final rule implementing revisions to the assessment system was released on February 7, 2011, and will take effect for the
quarter beginning April 1, 2011.





Fifth Third Bancorp131




Prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, a large IDI’s DIF
premiums principally were based on the size of an IDI’s domestic deposit base. Section 331(b) of Dodd-Frank changed the assessment base from an IDI’s domestic deposit base to itstotalassets. In addition to potentially greatly
increasing the size of a large IDI’s assessment base, the expansion of the assessment base affords the FDIC much greater flexibility to vary its assessment system based upon the different asset classes that large IDIs normally hold on their
balance sheets.

To implement this provision, the FDIC created an assessment scheme vastly different from the
deposit-based system. Under the new system, large IDIs will be assessed under a complex “scorecard” methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the DIF if
such a failure occurs.

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restrict transactions between a bank
and an affiliated company, including a parent bank holding company. The Bancorp’s subsidiary bank is subject to certain restrictions on loans to affiliated companies, on investments in the stock or securities thereof, on the taking of such
stock or securities as collateral for loans to any borrower, and on the issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on their behalf. Among other things, these restrictions limit the amount of such transactions, require collateral in prescribed
amounts for extensions of credit, prohibit the purchase of low quality assets and require that the terms of such transactions be substantially equivalent to terms of similar transactions with non-affiliates. Generally, the Bancorp’s subsidiary
bank is limited in its extension of credit to any affiliate to 10% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and its extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of the subsidiary bank’s capital.

The CRA generally requires insured depository institutions to identify the communities they serve and to make loans and
investments and provide services that meet the credit needs of these communities. Furthermore, the CRA requires the FRB to evaluate the performance of each of the subsidiary banks in helping to meet the credit needs of their communities. As a part
of the CRA program, the subsidiary banks are subject to periodic examinations by the FRB, and must maintain comprehensive records of their CRA activities for this purpose. During these examinations, the FRB rates such institutions’ compliance
with CRA as “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” Failure of an institution to receive at least a “Satisfactory” rating could inhibit such institution or
its holding company from undertaking certain activities, including engaging in activities permitted as a financial holding company under the GLBA and acquiring other financial institutions. The FRB must take into account the record of performance of
banks in meeting the credit needs of the entire community served, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Fifth Third Bank received a “Satisfactory” CRA rating in its most recent CRA examination.

The FRB has established capital guidelines for bank holding companies and FHCs. The FRB, the Division and the FDIC
have also issued regulations establishing capital requirements for banks. Failure to meet capital requirements could subject the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank to a variety of restrictions and enforcement actions. In addition, as discussed
previously, the Bancorp’s subsidiary bank must remain well capitalized and well managed for the Bancorp to retain its status as a FHC. In addition, as of the Dodd-Frank Act “transfer date” (currently anticipated to be July 21,
2011), the Bancorp also must be well capitalized and well managed to retain its financial holding company status.

Historically, the minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the
federal banking agencies typically followed the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. On December 16, 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) issued the final text of a
comprehensive update of the 2004 Basel II Accord (“Basel III”). On January 13, 2011, the Basel Committee issued an Annex to Basel III containing the final elements of reform to the definition of regulatory capital. Basel III aims to
reform the international financial system by instituting significantly higher global capital requirements and new liquidity and leverage standards. Basel III is not itself binding, but rather must be adopted into United States law or regulation
before affecting banks supervised in the United States. Moreover, if adopted in the United States Basil III likely would not become effective until 2013, and its provision would be subject to a multi-year transition period.

Basel III significantly revises the definitions of regulatory capital, establishing separate capital requirements for
common equity Tier 1 Capital (a new regulatory metric), Tier 1 Capital, consisting of the sum of Tier 1 Common Equity and Additional Tier 1 Capital, and Total Capital, consisting of the sum of Tier 1 Common Equity, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2
Capital. Basel III, if implemented, ultimately would require banks to maintain a minimum Tier 1 Common Equity Capital ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 Capital ratio of 6%, and a minimum Total Capital ratio of 8%. Among other significant reforms to
the definition of regulatory capital, Basel III disqualifies certain structured capital instruments, such as trust preferred securities, from Tier 1 capital status. (Dodd-Frank also disqualifies trust-preferred and similar instruments over a three
year period beginning in 2013.) In addition to higher minimum capital standards, Basel III also institutes new capital conservation and countercyclical buffers that could, if fully implemented, create significant incentive for banks to maintain up
to an additional 5% above the minimum capital requirements.

Basel III also introduces two measures of
liquidity based on risk exposure, one based on a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario and one designed to promote more medium and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon.

The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted final guidelines (the “Guidelines) for
safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. The Guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its Board of Directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain
a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against
unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bancorp has adopted a customer information security program that has been approved by the Bancorp’s Board of Directors
(the “Board).

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures
regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal
information, and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the subsidiary bank’s policies and procedures. The Bancorp’s subsidiary bank has





132Fifth Third Bancorp




implemented a privacy policy. The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”), designed
to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial system, has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act, as
implemented by various federal regulatory agencies, requires financial institutions, including the Bancorp and its subsidiaries, to implement new policies and procedures or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, among other matters,
anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act and its underlying regulations also permit information sharing for counter-terrorist purposes between federal
law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, subject to certain conditions, and require the FRB (and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money
laundering activities when considering applications filed under Section 3 of the BHCA or the Bank Merger Act. The Bancorp’s Board has approved policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the Patriot Act.

Certain mutual fund and unit investment trust custody and administrative clients are regulated as “investment
companies” as that term is defined under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “ICA), and are subject to various examination and reporting requirements. The provisions of the ICA and the regulations promulgated there under
prescribe the type of institution that may act as a custodian of investment company assets, as well as the manner in which a custodian administers the assets in its custody. As a custodian for a number of investment company clients, these
regulations require, among other things, that certain minimum aggregate capital, surplus and undivided profit levels are maintained by the Bancorp’s subsidiary bank, and also require the Bancorp to manage and retain certain information about
investment company clients pursuant to specific ICA requirements that are in addition to the Bancorp’s management and retention responsibilities under other applicable federal and state laws. Additionally, our arrangements with clearing
agencies or other securities depositories must meet ICA requirements for segregation of assets, identification of assets and client approval. New legislation or regulatory requirements could have a significant impact on the information reporting
requirements applicable to the Bancorp and may in the short term adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to service investment company clients at a reasonable cost.

The GLBA amended the federal securities laws to eliminate the blanket exceptions that banks traditionally have had from
the definition of “broker” and “dealer.” The GLBA also required that there be certain transactional activities that would not be “brokerage” activities, which banks could effect without having to register as a broker.
In September 2007, the FRB and SEC approved Regulation R to govern bank securities activities. Various exemptions permit banks to conduct activities that would otherwise constitute brokerage activities under the securities laws. Those exemptions
include conducting brokerage activities related to trust, fiduciary and similar services, certain services and also conducting a de minimis number of riskless principal transactions, certain asset-backed transactions and certain securities lending
transactions. The Bancorp only conducts non-exempt brokerage activities through its affiliated registered broker-dealer.

Emergency Economic Stabilization

On October 3, 2008, in response to the stresses experienced in the financial markets, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act
(“EESA”) was enacted. EESA authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase up to $700 billion in troubled assets from financial institutions under the Troubled Asset Relief Program or TARP. Troubled assets include residential or
commercial mortgages and related instruments originated prior to March 14, 2008 and any other financial instrument that the Secretary determines, after consultation with the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the
purchase of which is necessary to promote financial stability.

Capital Purchase Program

Pursuant to its authority under EESA, Treasury created the TARP Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) under which the Treasury
Department was authorized to invest up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock of U.S. banks and savings associations or their holding companies. Qualifying financial institutions could issue senior preferred stock with a value equal to not less
than 1% of risk-weighted assets and not more than the lesser of $25 billion or 3% of risk-weighted assets.

In connection with the issuance of the senior preferred, participating institutions were required to issue to Treasury
immediately exercisable 10-year warrants to purchase common stock with an aggregate market price equal to 15% of the amount of senior preferred.

On December 31, 2008, the Bancorp entered into a Letter Agreement (including the Securities Purchase Agreement—Standard Terms incorporated by reference therein, the “Purchase Agreement)
with Treasury pursuant to which the Company issued and sold to Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $3.4 billion in cash: (i) 136,320 shares of the Company’s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series F,
having a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the “Series F Preferred Stock), and (ii) a ten-year warrant to purchase up to 43,617,747 shares of the Company’s common stock, no par value per share, at an initial exercise price
of $11.72 per share.

In the Purchase Agreement, the Bancorp agreed that, until such time as Treasury ceases
to own any debt or equity securities of the Bancorp acquired pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, the Bancorp would take all necessary action to ensure that its benefit plans with respect to its senior executive officers comply with
Section 111(b) of EESA as implemented by any guidance or regulation under the EESA that had been issued and was in effect as of the date of issuance of the Series F Preferred Stock and the Warrant, and agreed to not adopt any benefit plans with
respect to, or which covers, its senior executive officers that do not comply with the EESA.

On
February 2, 2011 the Bancorp repurchased the Series F Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury pursuant to TARP. The Bancorp notified the U.S. Treasury on February 17, 2011, of its intention to negotiate for the purchase of the warrants
issued to the U.S. Treasury.

Supervisory Capital Assessment Program

On February 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced a new financial stability plan (the “Financial Stability Plan”), which
built upon existing programs and earmarked the second $350 billion of unused funds originally authorized under EESA. Pursuant to the CAP, the Bancorp, along with the other domestic bank holding companies with assets of more than $100 billion at
December 31, 2008, was subject to a forward-looking stress test called the Supervisory Capital Assessment





Fifth Third Bancorp133




Program (the “SCAP”). The SCAP exam evaluated the projected level and quality of each institution’s capital during specified economic scenarios through the end of 2010, which
included a baseline scenario, reflecting a consensus estimate of private-sector forecasters, and a more adverse scenario, reflecting an economic situation more severe than is generally anticipated.

Regulatory Reform

On July 21, 2010 President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act is aimed, in part, at accountability and transparency in the financial system and includes a numerous
provisions that apply to and/or could impact the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank. Some of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are set forth below.

Financial Stability Oversight Council

The Dodd-Frank Act creates the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, which is chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury and composed of expertise from various financial services regulators. The Financial Stability Oversight Council has responsibility for identifying risks and
responding to emerging threats to financial stability.

Executive Compensation

The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a say on pay for shareholders of all public companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, each company must give
its shareholders the opportunity to vote on the compensation of its executives at least once every three years. The Dodd-Frank Act also adds disclosure and voting requirements for golden parachute compensation that is payable to named executive
officers in connection with sale transactions.

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to issue rules
directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing classes of equity securities if a company’s compensation committee members are not independent. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that a company’s compensation committee may only select a
compensation consultant, legal counsel

or other advisor after taking into consideration factors to be identified by the SEC that affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor.

The SEC is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to issue rules obligating companies to disclose in proxy materials for
annual meetings of shareholders information that shows the relationship between executive compensation actually paid to their named executive officers and their financial performance, taking into account any change in the value of the shares of a
company’s stock and dividends or distributions.

The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the SEC must issue
rules directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing any security of a company unless the company develops and implements a policy providing for disclosure of the policy of the company on incentive-based compensation that is based on financial
information required to be reported under the securities laws and that, in the event the company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the company with any financial reporting requirement under the
securities laws, the company will recover from any current or former executive officer of the company who received incentive-based compensation during the three-years period preceding the date on which the company is required to prepare the
restatement based on the erroneous data, any exceptional compensation above what would have been paid under the restatement.

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC, by rule, to require that each company disclose in the proxy materials for its annual meetings whether an employee or board member is permitted to purchase financial
instruments designed to hedge or offset decreases in the market value of equity securities granted as compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board member.

Corporate Governance

The Dodd-Frank Act clarifies that the SEC may, but is
not required to promulgate rules that would require that a company’s proxy materials include a nominee for the board of directors submitted by a shareholder.

The Dodd-Frank Act requires stock exchanges to have rules prohibiting their members from voting securities that they do
not beneficially own (unless they have received voting instructions from the beneficial owner) with respect to the election of a member of the board of directors (other than an uncontested election of directors of an investment company registered
under the Investment Company Act of 1940), executive compensation or any other significant matter, as determined by the SEC by rule.

Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act includes a number of provisions that are targeted at improving the reliability of credit ratings. The SEC has been charged with adopting various rules in this regard.

Consumer Issues

The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will be housed within the Federal Reserve System but which will be independent. The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
will have the authority to implement regulations pursuant to numerous consumer protection laws and will have supervisory authority, including the power to conduct examination and take enforcement actions, with respect to depository institutions with
more than $10 billion in consolidated assets. The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection will also have new authority, among





134Fifth Third Bancorp




other things, to declare acts “unfair, deceptive or abusive” and to require certain consumer disclosures.

Debit Card Interchange Fees

The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a set of new
rules requiring that interchange transaction fees for electric debit transactions be “reasonable” and proportional to certain costs associated with processing the transactions. The FRB is given authority to establish standards for
assessing whether interchange fees are reasonable and proportional.

FDIC Matters

The Dodd-Frank Act creates an orderly liquidation process that the FDIC can employ for failing financial companies that are not insured
depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the FDIC new authority to create a widely available emergency financial stabilization program to guarantee the obligations of solvent depository institutions and their holding companies and
affiliates during times of severe economic stress. Additionally Dodd-Frank also codifies many of the temporary changes that had already been implemented, such as permanently increasing the amount of deposit insurance to $250,000.

Volker Rule

In the
“Volker Rule,” the Dodd-Frank Act sets forth new restrictions on banking organizations’ ability to engage in proprietary trading and sponsorship of or investment in private equity and hedge funds. The Volker Rule also generally
prohibits any banking entity from sponsoring or acquiring any ownership interest in a private equity or hedge fund. The Volker Rule, however, contains a number of exceptions. The Volker Rule permits transactions in the securities of the U.S.
government and its agencies, certain government-sponsored enterprises and states and their political subdivisions, as well as certain investments in small business investment companies. Transactions on behalf of customers and in connection with
certain underwriting and market making activities, as well as risk-mitigating hedging activities and certain foreign banking activities are also permitted. Dodd-Frank also defines certain parameters with respect to a permissiblede minimisinvestment in a private equity or hedge fund that the banking entity organizes and offers. In addition to the general prohibition on sponsorship and investment, the Volker Rule contains a second set of requirements applicable to any private equity
or hedge fund that is sponsored by the banking entity or for which it serves as investment manager or investment advisor.

Derivatives

The Dodd-Frank Act sets forth a new regulatory system for the U.S. market for swaps and other over-the-counter
derivatives. Under this new regime, all derivatives transactions and all entities that enter into them could be subject to potential regulations, and the goal of the regulatory framework is to promote the stability of the entire financial system and
further transparency and competition in the derivatives market.

Interstate Bank Branching

The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions permitting national and insured state banks to engage inde novointerstate branching if,
under the laws of the state where the new branch is to be established, as state bank chartered in that state would be permitted to establish a branch.

CapitalThe Dodd-Frank Act instructs the FRB to seek to make capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies countercyclical, with a higher level required in times of economic expansion and lower level
needed in times of economic contraction.Systemically Significant CompaniesThe Dodd-Frank Act creates a new regulatory regime for entities that are deemed to be “systemically significant financial
companies.” The Dodd-Frank Act sets a $50 billion consolidated asset floor for a bank holding company to be subject to the heightened oversight and regulation, although the FRB can adjust those amounts upward for some of the heightened
standards under certain circumstances. Dodd-Frank establishes a broad framework for identifying, applying heightened supervision and regulation to, and (as necessary) limiting the size and activities of systemically significant financial companies.
Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a new regime for the orderly liquidation of financial companies whose failure would pose systemic risk is also created.





Fifth Third Bancorp135




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Bancorp’s executive offices and the main office of Fifth Third Bank are located on Fountain Square Plaza in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio in a 32-story office tower, a five-story office building with
an attached parking garage and a separate ten-story office building known as the Fifth Third Center, the William S. Rowe Building and the 530 Building, respectively. The Bancorp’s main operations center is located in Cincinnati, Ohio, in a
three-story building with an attached parking garage known as the Madisonville Operations Center. The Bank owns 100% of these buildings.

At December 31, 2010, the Bancorp, through its banking and non-banking subsidiaries, operated 1,312 banking centers, of which 904 were owned, 277 were leased and 131 for which the buildings are owned
but the land is leased. The banking centers are located in the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, North Carolina, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Missouri, and Georgia. The Bancorp’s significant owned
properties are owned free from mortgages and major encumbrances.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP

Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the meeting of Directors immediately following the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders. The names, ages and positions of the Executive Officers of the Bancorp as of February 28, 2011 are listed below along with their business experience during the past 5 years:

Kevin T. Kabat, 54. President and Chief Executive Officer of the Bancorp since June 2006 and April 2007, respectively. Previously,
Mr. Kabat was Chairman from June 2008 to June 2010. Previously, Mr. Kabat was Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since December 2003.

Greg D. Carmichael, 49. Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Bancorp since June 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Carmichael was the Executive Vice President and Chief
Information Officer of the Bancorp since June 2003

Mark D. Hazel, 45. Senior Vice President and Controller of the
Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hazel was the Assistant Controller of the Bancorp since 2006 and was the Controller of Nonbank entities since 2003.

James R. Hubbard, 52. Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hubbard was the Senior Vice President and Director of Legal Services
since June 2001.

Gregory L. Kosch, 51. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since June 2005. Previously,
Mr. Kosch was Senior Vice President and head of the Bancorp’s Commercial Division in the Chicago affiliate since June 2002.

Bruce K. Lee, 50. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since June 2005. Previously, Mr. Lee was President and CEO of Fifth Third Bank (Northwestern Ohio) since July 2002.

Daniel T. Poston, 52. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since June 2003, and Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp since
September 2009. Previously, Mr. Poston was the Controller of the Bancorp from July 2007 to May 2008 and from November 2008 to September 2009. Previously, Mr. Poston was the Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp from May 2008 to November
2008. Formerly, Mr. Poston was the Auditor of the Bancorp since October 2001 and was Senior Vice President of the Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank since January 2002.

Paul L. Reynolds, 49. Executive Vice President, Secretary and Chief Administrative
Officer of the Bancorp since September 2009. Previously, Mr. Reynolds was Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel since 2002. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary since 1999.

Joseph R. Robinson, 43. Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer and Director of Information Technology
and Operations of the Bancorp since September 2009. Previously, Mr. Robinson was Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Bancorp since April 2008. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and Director of Central
Operations since November 2006 and Senior Vice President of IT Enterprise Solutions since March 2004.

Mahesh Sankaran,48. Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Bancorp since June 2006. Previously, Mr. Sankaran was Treasurer for Huntington Bancshares Incorporated since February 2005.

Robert A. Sullivan, 55. Senior Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since December 2002.

Teresa J. Tanner, 42. Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010. Previously,
Ms. Tanner was Senior Vice President and Director of Enterprise Learning since September 2008. Prior to that, she was Human Resources Senior Vice President and Senior Business Partner for the Information Technology and Central Operations
divisions since July 2006. Previously, she was Vice President and Senior Business Partner for Operations since September 2004.

Mary E. Tuuk, 46. Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Bancorp since June 2007. Previously, Ms. Tuuk was
Senior Vice President of Fifth Third Bancorp since 2003.





136Fifth Third Bancorp




PART IIITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIESThe Bancorp’s common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market and is listed under the symbol “FITB” on the
NASDAQ® Global Select Market System.High and Low Stock Prices and Dividends Paid Per Share2010HighLowDividends PaidPer ShareFourth Quarter$15.11$11.71$0.01Third Quarter$13.81$10.64$0.01Second Quarter$15.95$12.00$0.01First Quarter$14.05$9.81$0.012009HighLowDividends PaidPer ShareFourth Quarter$10.92$8.76$0.01Third Quarter$11.20$6.33$0.01Second Quarter$9.15$2.50$0.01First Quarter$8.65$1.01$0.01See a discussion of dividend limitations that the subsidiaries can pay to the Bancorp discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 31, 2010,
the Bancorp had 57,161 shareholders of record.

Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPeriodSharesPurchased(a)AveragePricePaid PerShareSharesPurchasedas Part ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans
orProgramsMaximumShares thatMay BePurchasedUnder thePlans
orProgramsOctober 2010-$--19,201,518November 2010---19,201,518December 2010---19,201,518Total-$--19,201,518(a)The Bancorp repurchased 6,337, 10,690, and 8,191 shares during October, November and December of 2010 in connection with various employee compensation plans of the
Bancorp. These purchases are not included against the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the Board of Directors authorization.





Fifth Third Bancorp137




The following performance graphs do not constitute soliciting material and should not be
deemed filed or incorporated by reference into any other Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Bancorp specifically incorporates the performance graphs by reference therein.

Total Return Analysis

The graphs below summarize the cumulative return experienced by the Bancorp’s shareholders over the years 2006 through 2010, and 2001 through 2010, respectively, compared to the S&P 500 Stock and
the S&P Banks indices.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP VS. MARKET INDICES







138Fifth Third Bancorp




PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The
information required by this item relating to the Executive Officers of the Registrant is included in PART I under “EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP.”

The information required by this item concerning Directors and the nomination process is incorporated herein by
reference under the caption “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning the Audit Committee and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is incorporated herein by reference under the captions “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and
“BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is incorporated herein by reference under the caption “SECTION 16
(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the captions “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS,” “COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND
DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT” and “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Security ownership information of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated herein by reference under the captions
“CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS,” “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS” and “COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2011
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning Equity Compensation Plan
information is included in Note 25 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under
the captions “CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS”, “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS”, “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the caption “PRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM FEES” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



Financial Statements FiledPagesReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm67Fifth Third Bancorp and Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements68-71Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements72-128

The schedules for the Bancorp and its subsidiaries are omitted because of the absence of conditions under which they are required, or because the information is set forth in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or the notes thereto.

The following lists the Exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.





2.1Master Investment Agreement (excluding exhibits and schedules) dated as of March 27, 2009 and amended as of June 30, 2009, among Fifth Third Bank,
Fifth Third Financial Corporation, Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., FTPS Holding, LLC and Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2,
2009.

3.1Second Amended Articles of Incorporation of Fifth Third Bancorp, as amended. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2008.

3.2Code of Regulations of Fifth Third Bancorp, as amended. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission
on June 21, 2010.

4.1Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Debenture Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.2Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of March 20, 1997 of Fifth Third Capital Trust II, among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Depositor, Wilmington Trust
Company, as Property Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.3Guarantee Agreement, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.4Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as the holder of the Common Securities of Fifth Third Capital
Trust I and Fifth Third Capital Trust II. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.5Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2003, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.6Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 4.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.7First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 20, 2006, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.8Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 5.45% Subordinated Notes due 2017. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.9Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $250,000,000 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes due 2016. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.10First Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the Junior Subordinated
Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30,
2007.





Fifth Third Bancorp139






4.11Certificate Representing $500,000,000.00 of 6.50% Junior Subordinated Notes of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.12Certificate Representing $250,010,000.00 of 6.50% Junior Subordinated Notes of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.13Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of March 30, 2007 of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Sponsor, Wilmington Trust
Company, as Property Trustee and Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.14Certificate Representing 500,000 6.50% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV (liquidation amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred Security).
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.15Certificate Representing 250,000 6.50% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV (liquidation amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred Security).
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.16Certificate Representing 10 6.50% Common Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV (liquidation amount $1,000 per Common Security). Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.17Guarantee Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.18Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Capital Trust IV. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.19Replacement Capital Covenant of Fifth Third Bancorp dated as of March 30, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2007.

4.20Amendment No. 1 to Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of November 24, 2010 amending the Replacement Capital Covenant dated as of March 30, 2007. Incorporated
by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 26, 2010. Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 8, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company,
as trustee, to the Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on August 8, 2007.

4.21Certificate Representing $500,010,000 of 7.25% Junior Subordinated Notes of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007.

4.22Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of August 8, 2007 of Fifth Third Capital Trust V among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Sponsor, Wilmington Trust
Company, as Property Trustee and Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8,
2007.

4.23Certificate Representing 20,000,000 7.25% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust V (liquidation amount $25 per Trust Preferred Security).
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007.

4.24Certificate Representing 400 7.25% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust V (liquidation amount $25 per Trust Preferred Security). Incorporated
by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.

4.25Guarantee Agreement, dated as of August 8, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and



Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007.

4.26Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of August 8, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Capital Trust V. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.

4.27Replacement Capital Covenant of Fifth Third Bancorp dated as of August 8, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007.

4.28Amendment No. 1 to Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of November 24, 2010 amending the Replacement Capital Covenant dated as of August 8, 2007. Incorporated
by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 26, 2010. Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company,
as trustee, to the Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third and the trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
October 31, 2007.

4.29Certificate Representing $862,510,000 of 7.25% Junior Subordinated Notes of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2007.

4.30Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of October 30, 2007 of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Sponsor, Wilmington Trust
Company, as Property Trustee and Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31,
2007.

4.31Certificate Representing 20,000,000 7.25% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI (liquidation amount $25 per Trust Preferred Security).
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2007. (Issuer also entered into an identical certificate on October 30, 2007 representing $362,500,000
in aggregate liquidation amount of 7.25% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI.)

4.32Certificate Representing 400 7.25% Common Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI (liquidation amount $25 per Trust Preferred Security). Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.

4.33Guarantee Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2007.

4.34Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of October 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Capital Trust VI. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.

4.35Replacement Capital Covenant of Fifth Third Bancorp dated as of October 30, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2007.

4.36Amendment No. 1 to Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of November 24, 2010 amending the Replacement Capital Covenant dated as of October 30, 2007.
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 26, 2010. Global security dated as of March 4, 2008 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 8.25%
Subordinated Notes due 2038. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. (1)

4.37Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee. Incorporated by reference
to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.38Global security dated as of April 30, 2008 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 6.25% Senior Notes due 2013. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.
(2)





140Fifth Third Bancorp






4.39Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 6, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the Junior
Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6,
2008.



4.40$400,010,000.00 8.875% Junior Subordinated Note dated as of May 6, 2008 of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.41Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Fifth Third Capital Trust VII dated as of May 6, 2008 among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Sponsor, Wilmington Trust
Company, as Property Trustee and Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6,
2008.

4.42Certificate dated as of May 6, 2008 representing 16,000,000 ($400,000,000) 8.875% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VII (liquidation amount
$25 per Trust Preferred Security). Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.43Certificate dated as of May 6, 2008 representing 400 ($10,000) 8.875% Common Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VII (liquidation amount $25 per Common
Security). Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.44Guarantee Agreement dated as of May 6, 2008 for Fifth Third Capital Trust VII between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as
Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.45Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of May 6, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Capital Trust VII. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.46Deposit Agreement dated June 25, 2008, between Fifth Third Bancorp, Wilmington Trust Company, as depositary and conversion agent and American Stock Transfer
and Trust Company, as transfer agent, and the holders from time to time of the Receipts described therein. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on June 25, 2008.

4.47Form of Certificate Representing the 8.50 % Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 25, 2008.

4.48Form of Depositary Receipt for the 8.50 % Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 25, 2008.

4.49Warrant to Purchase up to 43,617,747 shares of Common Stock. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008.

4.50Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 25, 2011 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as
Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
January 25, 2011.

4.51Global Security dated as of January 25, 2011 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 3.625% Senior Notes due 2016. Incorporated by reference to the
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 25, 2011. (3)

10.1Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed for fiscal year ended December 31, 1985. *

10.2Fifth Third Bancorp 1990 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to
the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-34075.
*



10.3Fifth Third Bancorp 1987 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to
the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-13252. *

10.4Indenture effective November 19, 1992 between Fifth Third Bancorp, Issuer and NBD Bank, N.A., Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 1992 and as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 33-54134.

10.5Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2004. *

10.6Fifth Third Bancorp Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated February 19, 2004. *

10.7Amended and Restated Fifth Third Bancorp 1993 Stock Purchase Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2003. *

10.8Fifth Third Bancorp 1998 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2003.*

10.9Fifth Third Bancorp Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. *

10.10CNB Bancshares, Inc. 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, 1995 Stock Incentive Plan, 1992 Stock Incentive Plan and Associate Stock Option Plan; and Indiana Federal
Corporation 1986 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration No. 333-84955 and by reference to
CNB Bancshares Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998. *

10.11Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated February 9, 2001.*

10.12Amendment No. 1 to Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on May 26, 2006.*

10.13Old Kent Executive Stock Option Plan of 1986, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to the following filings by Old Kent Financial Corporation with the
Securities and Exchange Commission: Exhibit 10 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995; Exhibit 10.19 to Form 8-K filed on March 5, 1997; Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K filed on March 2, 2000. *

10.14Old Kent Stock Option Incentive Plan of 1992, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to the following filings by Old Kent Financial Corporation with the
Securities and Exchange Commission: Exhibit 10(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995; Exhibit 10.20 to Form 8-K filed on March 5, 1997; Exhibit 10(d) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997; Exhibit 10.3 to Form
8-K filed on March 2, 2000. *

10.15Old Kent Executive Stock Incentive Plan of 1997, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to Old Kent Financial Corporation’s Annual Meeting Proxy Statement
dated March 1, 1997. *

10.16Old Kent Stock Incentive Plan of 1999. Incorporated by reference to Old Kent Financial Corporation’s Annual Meeting Proxy Statement dated March 1,
1999. *

10.17Notice of Grant of Performance Units and Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2004. *

10.18Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock and Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *

10.19Notice of Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights and Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2004. *

10.20Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock and Award Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *





Fifth Third Bancorp141






10.21Franklin Financial Corporation 1990 Incentive Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Franklin Financial Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1989.*

10.22Franklin Financial Corporation 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Franklin Financial Corporation’s Registration Statement on
Form S-8, Registration No. 333-52928. *

10.23Amended and Restated First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc. 2003 Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to First National Bankshares of Florida,
Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. *

10.24Southern Community Bancorp Equity Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp’s Registration Statement on Form SB-2,
Registration No. 333-35548. *

10.25Southern Community Bancorp Director Statutory Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp’s Registration Statement on Form
SB-2, Registration No. 333-35548. *

10.26Peninsula Bank of Central Florida Key Employee Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2003. *

10.27Peninsula Bank of Central Florida Director Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2003. *

10.28First Bradenton Bank Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2004. *

10.29Letter Agreement with R. Mark Graf. Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30, 2005. *

10.30Amendment Dated January 16, 2006 to the Letter Agreement with R. Mark Graf. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 17, 2006.

10.31Separation Agreement between Fifth Third Bancorp and Neal E. Arnold dated as of December 14, 2005. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 22, 2005. *

10.32Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement dated March 29, 2005, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 2005.

10.33Amendment to Stipulation dated May 10, 2005. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on November 18, 2005.

10.34Second Amendment to Stipulation dated August 12, 2005. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on November 18, 2005.

10.35Order and Final Judgment of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 2005.

10.36Offer letter from Fifth Third Bancorp to Ross J. Kari. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on November 12, 2008. *

10.37Separation Agreement between Fifth Third Bancorp and Christopher G. Marshall dated May 1, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 2, 2008. *

10.38Letter Agreement, dated December 31, 2008, including Securities Purchase Agreement – Standard Terms incorporated by reference therein, between the Company
and the United States Department of the Treasury. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008.

10.39Form of Waiver, executed by each of Messrs. Kevin Kabat, Ross Kari, Greg Carmichael, Charles Drucker, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, Robert A. Sullivan and Terry Zink.
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008.
*



10.40Form of Letter Agreement, executed by each of Messrs. Kevin Kabat, Ross Kari, Greg Carmichael, Charles Drucker, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, Robert A. Sullivan and
Terry Zink with the Company. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *

10.41Form of Executive Agreements effective December 31, 2008, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Kevin T. Kabat, Robert A. Sullivan, Greg D. Carmichael, Ross Kari,
Bruce K. Lee, Charles D. Drucker and Terry Zink. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *

10.42Form of Executive Agreements effective December 31, 2008, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Nancy Phillips, Daniel T. Poston, Paul L. Reynolds and Mary E. Tuuk.
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *

10.43Form of Executive Agreement effective December 31, 2008, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Mahesh Sankaran. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *

10.44Warrant dated June 30, 2009 issued by FTPS Holding, LLC to Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.45Amended & Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (excluding certain exhibits) dated as of June 30, 2009 among Advent-Kong Blocker Corp.,
Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and FTPS Holding, LLC. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.46Amendment and Restatement Agreement and Reaffirmation (excluding certain schedules) dated as of June 30, 2009 among Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC,
FTPS Holding, LLC, Card Management Company, LLC, Fifth Third Holdings, LLC and Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.47Registration Rights Agreement dated as of June 30, 2009 among Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and
FTPS Holding, LLC. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.48Form of Agreement Regarding Portion of Salary Payable in Phantom Stock Units dated October 16, 2009 executed by Kevin
Kabat, Greg Carmichael, Greg Kosch, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, Paul Reynolds, Robert Sullivan, and Terry Zink. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. *

10.49Form of Agreement Regarding Portion of Salary Payable in Phantom Stock Units dated March 26, 2010 executed by Mary Tuuk.
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. *

10.50Form of Letter Agreement dated June 29, 2010 executed by each of Kevin Kabat, Greg Carmichael, Greg Kosch, Bruce Lee,
Dan Poston, Paul Reynolds, Robert A. Sullivan and Mary Tuuk with the Company. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. *

10.51Form of Addendum No.1 to Agreement Regarding Portion of Salary Payable in Phantom Stock Units executed by each of Kevin Kabat, Greg Carmichael, Greg Kosch, Bruce
Lee, Dan Poston, Paul Reynolds, Robert A. Sullivan and Mary Tuuk with the Company. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. *

12.1Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

12.2Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.

14Code of Ethics. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
January 23, 2007.

21Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2010.

23Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-Deloitte & Touche LLP.

31(i)Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer.

31(ii)Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial
Officer.





142Fifth Third Bancorp




32(i)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive
Officer.32(ii)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial
Officer.99.1Certification Pursuant to Section 111 (b)(4) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 by Chief Executive Officer99.2Certification Pursuant to Section 111 (b)(4) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 by Chief Financial Officer101Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements tagged as blocks of text and in detail. **

(1)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on March 4, 2008 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 2038.

(2)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on April 30, 2008 representing an additional $250,000,000 of its 6.25% Senior Notes due 2013.

(3)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on January 25, 2011 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 3.625% Senior Notes due 2016.

*Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

**As provided in Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, this information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.







Fifth Third Bancorp143




SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.FIFTH THIRD BANCORPRegistrant/s/ Kevin T. KabatKevin T. KabatPresident and CEOPrincipal Executive OfficerFebruary 28, 2011Pursuant to
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed on February 28, 2011 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated.OFFICERS:/s/ Kevin T. KabatKevin T. KabatPresident and CEOPrincipal Executive Officer/s/ Daniel T. PostonDaniel T. PostonExecutive Vice President and CFOPrincipal Financial Officer/s/ Mark D. HazelMark D. HazelSenior Vice President and ControllerPrincipal Accounting 
Officer

DIRECTORS:/s/ William M. IsaacWilliam M. IsaacChairman/s/ James P. HackettJames P. HackettLead Director/s/ Darryl F. AllenDarryl F. Allen/s/ Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr./s/ Emerson L. BrumbackEmerson L. Brumback/s/ Gary R. HemingerGary R. Heminger/s/ Jewell D. HooverJewell D. Hoover/s/ Kevin T. KabatKevin T. Kabat/s/ Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D.Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D./s/ Hendrik G. MeijerHendrik G. Meijer/s/ John J. Schiff, Jr.John J. Schiff, Jr./s/ Dudley S. TaftDudley S. Taft/s/ Marsha C. WilliamsMarsha C. Williams





144Fifth Third Bancorp




CONSOLIDATED TEN YEAR COMPARISON

AVERAGE ASSETS ($ IN MILLIONS)Interest-Earning AssetsYearLoans andLeasesFederal FundsSold (a)Interest-BearingDeposits inBanks (a)SecuritiesTotalCash and Duefrom BanksOtherAssetsTotalAverageAssets2010$79,232113,31716,371$98,9312,24514,841$112,434200983,391121,02317,100101,5262,32914,266114,856200885,83543818313,42499,8802,49013,411114,296200778,34825714711,63090,3822,27510,613102,477200673,49325214420,91094,7992,4778,713105,238200567,7378811324,80692,7442,7508,102102,876200457,04212019530,28287,6392,2165,76394,896200352,4149221528,64081,3611,6005,25087,481200245,53915518423,24669,1241,5515,00775,037200144,8886913219,73764,8261,4825,00070,683



AVERAGE DEPOSITS AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS ($ IN MILLIONS)DepositsYearDemandInterestCheckingSavingsMoneyMarketOtherTimeCertificates$100,000and OverForeignOfficeTotalShort-TermBorrowingsTotal2010$19,66918,21819,6124,80810,5266,0833,361$82,2771,926$84,203200916,86215,07016,8754,32014,10310,3672,26579,8626,98086,842200814,01714,19116,1926,12711,1359,5314,22075,41310,76086,173200713,26114,82014,8366,30810,7786,4663,15569,6246,89076,514200613,74116,65012,1896,36610,5005,7953,71168,9528,67077,622200513,86818,88410,0075,1708,4914,0013,96764,3889,51173,899200412,32719,4347,9413,4736,2082,4034,44956,23513,53969,774200310,48218,6798,0203,1896,4263,8323,86254,49012,37366,86320028,95316,2399,4651,1628,8552,2372,01848,9297,19156,12020017,39411,4894,9282,55213,4733,8211,99245,6498,79954,448



INCOME ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)Per Share(b)Originally ReportedYearInterestIncomeInterestExpenseNoninterestIncomeNoninterestExpenseNet Income(Loss)Available toCommonShareholdersEarningsDilutedEarningsDividendsDeclaredEarningsDilutedEarnings2010$4,4898852,7293,8555030.630.63.040.63$0.6320094,6681,3144,7823,8265110.730.67.040.730.6720085,6082,0942,9464,564(2,180)(3.91)(3.91).75(3.94)(3.94)20076,0273,0182,4673,3111,0751.991.981.702.001.9920065,9553,0822,0122,9151,1882.132.121.582.142.1320054,9952,0302,3742,8011,5482.792.771.462.792.7720044,1141,1022,3552,8631,5242.722.681.312.722.6820033,9911,0862,3982,4661,6642.912.871.132.912.8720024,1291,4302,1112,2651,5302.642.59.982.642.5920014,7092,2781,7322,3971,0011.741.70.831.741.70



MISCELLANEOUS AT DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)Bancorp Shareholders’
EquityYearCommon SharesOutstandingCommonStockPreferredStockCapitalSurplusRetainedEarningsAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeTreasuryStockTotalBook ValuePerShareAllowancefor Loanand LeaseLosses2010796,272,522$1,7793,6541,7156,719314(130)$14,05113.06$3,0042009795,068,1641,7793,6091,7436,326241(201)13,49712.443,7492008577,386,6121,2954,2418485,82498(229)12,07713.572,7872007532,671,9251,29591,7798,413(126)(2,209)9,16117.189372006556,252,6741,29591,8128,317(179)(1,232)10,02218.007712005555,623,4301,29591,8278,007(413)(1,279)9,44616.987442004557,648,9891,29591,9347,269(169)(1,414)8,92415.997132003566,685,3011,29591,9646,481(120)(962)8,66715.296972002574,355,2471,29592,0105,465369(544)8,60414.986832001582,674,5801,29491,9434,5028(4)7,75213.31624

(a)Federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in banks are combined in other short-term investments in the Consolidated
Financial Statements.(b)Adjusted for accounting guidance relating to the calculation of earnings per share, which was adopted retroactively on
January 1, 2009.



Fifth Third Bancorp145




DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS



FIFTH THIRD BANCORP DIRECTORSWilliam M. Isaac, ChairmanChairmanLECG Global Financial ServicesJames P.
Hackett, Lead DirectorPresident & CEOSteelcase, Inc.Darryl F. AllenRetired ChairmanPresident & CEOAeroquip-Vickers, Inc.Ulysses L.
Bridgeman, Jr.PresidentERJ Inc. and Manna, Inc.Emerson L.
BrumbackRetired President & COOM&T Bank.Gary R. HemingerExecutive Vice PresidentMarathon Oil CorporationJewell D. HooverPrincipalHoover and Associates,LLCKevin T.
KabatPresident & CEOFifth Third BancorpMitchel D.
Livingston, Ph.D.Vice President for Student Affairs& Chief Diversity OfficerUniversity of CincinnatiHendrik G. MeijerCo-Chairman & CEOMeijer, Inc.John J.
Schiff, Jr.ChairmanCincinnati Financial Corporation &Cincinnati Insurance CompanyDudley S. TaftPresidentTaft Broadcasting CompanyMarsha C. WilliamsSenior
Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerOrbitz Worldwide, Inc.

DIRECTORS EMERITINeil A. ArmstrongPhilip G. BarachJohn F. BarrettVincent H. BeckmanJ. Kenneth BlackwellMilton C. Boesel, Jr.Douglas G. CowanThomas L. DahlRonald A. DauweGerald V. DirvinThomas B. DonnellNicholas M. EvansRichard T. FarmerLouis R. FioreJohn D. GearyIvan W. GorrJoseph H. Head, Jr.Allen M. HillWilliam G. KaglerWilliam J. KeatingJerry L. KirbyRobert L. Koch IIKenneth W. LoweRobert B. MorganMichael H. NorrisDavid E. ReeseJames E. RogersC. Wesley RowlesGeorge A. Schaefer, Jr.Donald B.
ShackelfordDavid B. SharrockStephen StranahanDennis J. Sullivan, Jr.Thomas W. TraylorN. Beverley
Tucker, Jr.Alton C. WendzelFIFTH THIRD BANCORP OFFICERSKevin T.
KabatPresident & CEOGreg D. CarmichaelExecutive Vice
President &Chief Operating OfficerMark D. HazelSenior Vice President &ControllerJames R. HubbardSenior Vice President &Chief Legal OfficerGregory L. KoschExecutive Vice PresidentBruce K. LeeExecutive Vice PresidentDaniel T. PostonExecutive
Vice President &Chief Financial OfficerPaul L. ReynoldsExecutive Vice President, Secretary &Chief Administrative OfficerJoseph R.
RobinsonExecutive Vice President &Chief Information OfficerMahesh SankaranSenior Vice President &Treasurer

Robert A. SullivanSenior Executive Vice PresidentTeresa J. TannerExecutive Vice President &Chief Human Resources OfficerMary E.
TuukExecutive Vice President &Chief Risk OfficerAFFILIATE CHAIRMENH. Lee CooperSouthern IndianaGordon E. InmanTennesseeJohn S. SzuchNorthwestern
OhioTerry E. ZinkChicagoAFFILIATE AND MARKET PRESIDENTSDon AbelJohn H. Bultema IIIDavid A. CallTodd F. ClossinJohn N. DanielKaren DeeJay FergusonDavid GirodatDan W. HoganNancy H. HuberRobert E. James, Jr.Brian P. KeenanJerry KelsheimerRandy KoporcRobert W. LaClairRalph S. Michael IIIJordan A. Miller, Jr.Thomas PartridgeRobert A. SullivanMichelle L. VanDykeThomas G. Welch, Jr.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP BOARD COMMITTEESFinance CommitteeKevin T. Kabat, ChairJames P. HackettGary R. HemingerDudley S. TaftAudit CommitteeDarryl F. Allen, ChairEmerson
L. BrumbackJewell D. HooverMarsha
C. WilliamsCompensation CommitteeGary R. Heminger, ChairEmerson L. BrumbackMitchel D. Livingston, Ph. D.Hendrik G.
MeijerNominating and Corporate Governance CommitteeJames P. Hackett, ChairDarryl F. AllenUlysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.Marsha C. WilliamsRisk and Compliance CommitteeMarsha C.
Williams, ChairUlysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.Jewell D. HooverHendrik G. MeijerDudley S. TaftTrust CommitteeMitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D., ChairKevin T. KabatJohn J. Schiff, Jr.





146Fifth Third Bancorp

