ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General Information

Fifth
Third Bancorp, an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is a bank holding company as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), and is registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (FRB). The Bancorp’s principal office is located in Cincinnati, Ohio.

The Bancorp’s
subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial products and services to the retail, commercial, financial, governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide variety of checking, savings and money market accounts, and credit products
such as credit cards, installment loans, mortgage loans and leases. Fifth Third Bank has deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) through the Deposit Insurance Fund. Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as an attachment to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of all the subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of December 31, 2009.

Additional information regarding the Bancorp’s businesses is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Competition

The Bancorp competes for deposits, loans and other banking
services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to the challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, the Bancorp’s competitors include
securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and insurance companies. These competitors, with focused products targeted at highly profitable customer segments, compete across geographic boundaries and provide customers
increasing access to meaningful alternatives to banking services in nearly all significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology, product delivery systems and the
accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. These competitive trends are likely to continue.

Acquisitions

The Bancorp’s strategy for growth includes strengthening its presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets
and broadening its product offerings while taking into account

the integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities in connection with possible transactions. As a result,
discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur. These typically involve the payment of a premium over book value and current market price, and therefore, some
dilution of book value and net income per share may occur with any future transactions.

Additional
information regarding acquisitions is included in the Regulation and Supervision section in addition to Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Regulation and Supervision

In addition to the generally applicable state
and federal laws governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions and their parent companies. Virtually all
aspects of the business of the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank are subject to specific requirements or restrictions and general regulatory oversight. The principal objectives of state and federal banking laws are the maintenance of the safety and
soundness of financial institutions and the federal deposit insurance system and the protection of consumers or classes of consumers, rather than the specific protection of shareholders of a bank or the parent company of a bank, such as the Bancorp.
In addition, the supervision, regulation and examination of the Bancorp and its subsidiaries by the bank regulatory agencies is not intended for the protection of the Bancorp’s security holders. To the extent the following material describes
statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statute or regulation.

The Bancorp is subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions (the “Division). The Bancorp is required to file various reports with, and is subject
to examination by, the FRB and the Division. The FRB has the authority to issue orders to bank holding companies to cease and desist from unsound banking practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of agreements with, the FRB.
The FRB is also empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or individuals who violate the BHCA or orders or regulations thereunder, to order termination of non-banking activities of non-banking subsidiaries of bank holding
companies, and to order termination of ownership and control of a non-banking subsidiary by a bank holding company.

The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB, for a bank holding company to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank or acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any
bank, bank holding company or savings association, or increasing any such non-majority ownership or control of any bank, bank holding company or savings association, or merging or consolidating with any bank holding company.

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 generally authorizes bank holding companies
to acquire banks located in any state, subject to certain state-imposed age and deposit concentration limits, and also generally authorizes interstate bank holding company and bank mergers and to a lesser extent, interstate branching.

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA) permits a qualifying bank holding company to become a financial holding company
(FHC) and thereby to engage directly or indirectly in a broader range of activities than had previously been permitted for a bank holding company under the BHCA. Permitted





Fifth Third Bancorp115




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



activities include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation with the Treasury
Department, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or are declared by the FRB unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. In addition, a FHC is allowed to conduct permissible new financial activities or
acquire permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact notice to the FRB. A bank holding company may elect to become a FHC if each of its subsidiary banks is “well capitalized,” is “well managed” and has at least a
“Satisfactory” rating under the Federal Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). In 2000, the Bancorp elected and qualified for FHC status under the GLBA.

Unless a bank holding company becomes a FHC under GLBA, the BHCA also prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 5% of
any class of the voting shares of a company that is not a bank or a bank holding company and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its subsidiary
banks, except that it may engage in and may own shares of companies engaged in certain activities the FRB has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be proper incident thereto.

The FRB has authority to prohibit bank holding companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or
unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for bank holding companies to pay dividends unless a bank holding company’s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of
earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Bancorp depends in part upon dividends received from its subsidiary bank to fund its activities, including the payment of
dividends and its subsidiary bank is subject to regulatory limitations on the amount of dividends it may declare and pay.

Under FRB policy, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to their support. This support may be
required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide it. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), the FDIC can hold any FDIC-insured depository institution liable
for any loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC in connection with (1) the “default” of a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution; or (2) any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled FDIC-insured
depository institution “in danger of default.”

Prior to September 30, 2009, the Bancorp
owned two state banks, Fifth Third Bank and Fifth Third Bank (Michigan), chartered under the laws of Ohio and Michigan, respectively and one national bank, Fifth Third Bank, N.A. On September 30, 2009 Fifth Third Bank, N.A., and Fifth Third
Bank (Michigan) merged with and into Fifth Third Bank, the Ohio chartered bank (the “consolidation”). These banks are subject to extensive state regulation and examination by the appropriate state banking agency in the particular state or
states where each state bank is chartered, by the FRB, and by the FDIC, which insures the deposits of each of the state banks to the maximum extent permitted by law. The federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable to banks regulate,
among other matters, the scope of their business, their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of

deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual and related borrowers and the nature, amount of and collateral for certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged on loans.
Various state consumer laws and regulations also affect the operations of the state banks.

Prior to the
consolidation, the Bancorp’s national subsidiary bank, Fifth Third Bank, N.A. was subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and secondarily by the FRB and the FDIC, which insures the
deposits to the maximum extent permitted by law. The federal laws and regulations that are applicable to national banks regulate, among other matters, the scope of their business, their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the
availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual and related borrowers and the nature, amount of and collateral for certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged on loans.

In May 2009, as part of its efforts to rebuild the DIF, the FDIC issued a final rule which levied a special assessment
applicable to all insured depository institutions totaling 5 basis points of each institution’s total assets less Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, not to exceed 10 basis points of domestic deposits. In lieu of further special
assessments, in November 2009, the FDIC issued a rule that required all insured depository institutions, with limited exceptions, to prepay their estimated





116Fifth Third Bancorp




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The FDIC also adopted a uniform three-basis point increase in assessment rates effective on
January 1, 2011.

Federal law, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restricts transactions
between a bank and an affiliated company, including a parent bank holding company. The subsidiary banks are subject to certain restrictions on loans to affiliated companies, on investments in the stock or securities thereof, on the taking of such
stock or securities as collateral for loans to any borrower, and on the issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on their behalf. Among other things, these restrictions limit the amount of such transactions, require collateral in prescribed
amounts for extensions of credit, prohibit the purchase of low quality assets and require that the terms of such transactions be substantially equivalent to terms of similar transactions with non-affiliates. One result of these restrictions is a
limitation on the subsidiary banks to fund the Bancorp. Generally, each subsidiary bank is limited in its extensions of credit to any affiliate to 10% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and its extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of the
subsidiary bank’s capital.

The FRB has established capital guidelines for financial holding companies. The FRB and the OCC have also issued regulations establishing capital requirements for banks. Failure to
meet capital requirements could subject the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank to a variety of restrictions and enforcement actions. In addition, as discussed previously, the Bancorp’s subsidiary bank must remain well capitalized for the Bancorp
to retain its status as a financial holding company.

The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by
the federal banking agencies follow the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. In 2004, the Basel Committee published its new capital guidelines (Basel II) governing the capital adequacy of large, internationally active
banking organizations (core” banking organizations with at least $250 billion in total assets or at least $10 billion in foreign exposure). The final rule to implement the advanced approaches

of Basel II for core banking organizations became effective on April 1, 2008. Under Basel II, after a transition period, core banking organizations are required to enhance the measurement
and management of their risks, including credit risk and operational risk, through the use of advanced approaches for calculating risk-based capital requirements. Other U.S. banking organizations may elect to adopt the requirements of this rule (if
they meet applicable qualification requirements), but they are not required to apply them.

In July 2008, the
federal banking agencies issued a proposed rule that would give all non-core banking organizations, which are not required to adopt Basel II’s advance approaches, such as Bancorp, with the option to adopt a new risk-based framework. This
framework would adopt the standardized approach of Basel II for credit risk, the basic indicator approach of Basel II for operational risk, and related disclosure requirements. The proposed rule, if adopted, will replace the earlier proposal to
adopt the so-called Basel IA option. Until such time as the new rules for non-core banking organizations are adopted, Bancorp is unable to predict whether it will adopt a standardized approach under Basel II.

On September 3, 2009, the United States Treasury Department (“Treasury”) issued a policy statement (the
“Treasury Policy Statement”) entitled “Principles for Reforming the U.S. and International Regulatory Capital Framework for Banking Firms.” The Treasury Policy Statement was developed in consultation with the U.S. bank regulatory
agencies and contemplates changes to the existing regulatory capital regime that would involve substantial revisions to, if not replacement of, major parts of the Basel I and Basel II capital frameworks and affect all regulated banking
organizations and other systemically important institutions. The Treasury Policy Statement calls for, among other things, stronger and higher capital requirements for all banking firms. The Treasury Policy Statement suggested that changes to the
regulatory capital framework be phased in over a period of several years. Treasury seeks to reach a comprehensive international agreement on the framework by December 31, 2010, with the implementation of reforms by December 31, 2012.
However, it remains possible that U.S. bank regulatory agencies could officially adopt, or informally implement, new capital standards at an earlier date.

On December 17, 2009, the Basel Committee issued a set of proposals (the “Capital Proposals”) that would significantly revise the definitions of Tier 1 capital
and Tier 2 capital, with the most significant changes being to Tier 1 capital. Most notably, the Capital Proposals would disqualify certain structured capital instruments, such as trust preferred securities, from Tier 1 capital status. The
Capital Proposals would also re-emphasize that common equity is the predominant component of Tier 1 capital by adding a minimum common equity to risk-weighted assets ratio and requiring that goodwill, general intangibles and certain other items
that currently must be deducted from Tier 1 capital instead be deducted from common equity as a component of Tier 1 capital. The Capital Proposals also leave open the possibility that the Basel Committee will recommend changes to the
minimum Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios of 4.0% and 8.0%, respectively.

Concurrently with the
release of the Capital Proposals, the Basel Committee also released a set of proposals related to liquidity risk exposure (the “Liquidity Proposals,” and together with the Capital Proposals, the “2009 Basel Committee Proposals”).
The Liquidity Proposals include two measures of liquidity based on risk exposure, one based on a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario and one





Fifth Third Bancorp117




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



designed to promote more medium and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon.

Comments on the 2009 Basel Committee Proposals are due by April 16, 2010, with the expectation that the Basel Committee will release a comprehensive set of proposals by
December 31, 2010 and that final provisions will be implemented by December 31, 2012. The U.S. bank regulators have urged comment on the 2009 Basel Committee Proposals. Ultimate implementation of such proposals in the U.S. will be subject
to the discretion of the U.S. bank regulators and the regulations or guidelines adopted by such agencies may, of course, differ from the 2009 Basel Committee Proposals and other proposals that the Basel Committee may promulgate in the future.

The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted final guidelines (the “Guidelines) for
safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. The Guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its Board of Directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain
a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against
unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bancorp has adopted a customer information security program that has been approved by the Bancorp’s Board of Directors
(the “Board).

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding
the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information,
and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the subsidiary banks policies and procedures. The subsidiary banks have implemented a privacy policy effective since the GLBA became law, pursuant
to which all of its existing and new customers are notified of the privacy policies.

The Uniting and
Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act), designed to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial system, has
significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act, as implemented by various federal regulatory agencies, requires financial institutions, including the
Bancorp and its subsidiaries, to implement new policies and procedures or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, among other matters, anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting and due
diligence on customers. The Patriot Act and its underlying regulations also permit information sharing for counter-terrorist purposes between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions,
subject to certain conditions, and require the FRB (and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering activities when considering applications filed under Section 3 of the BHCA or
the Bank Merger Act. The Bancorp’s Board has approved policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the Patriot Act.

Certain mutual fund and unit investment trust custody and administrative
clients are regulated as “investment companies” as that term is defined under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “ICA), and are subject to various examination and reporting requirements. The provisions of the ICA and
the regulations promulgated thereunder prescribe the type of institution that may act as a custodian of investment company assets, as well as the manner in which a custodian administers the assets in its custody. As a custodian for a number of
investment company clients, these regulations require, among other things, that certain minimum aggregate capital, surplus and undivided profit levels are maintained by the subsidiary banks. Additionally, arrangements with clearing agencies or other
securities depositories must meet ICA requirements for segregation of assets, identification of assets and client approval. Future legislative and regulatory changes in the existing laws and regulations governing custody of investment company
assets, particularly with respect to custodian qualifications, may have a material and adverse impact on the Bancorp. Currently, management believes the Bancorp is in compliance with all minimum capital and securities depository requirements.
Further, the Bancorp is not aware of any proposed or pending regulatory developments, which, if approved, would adversely affect its ability to act as custodian to an investment company.

Investment companies are also subject to extensive record keeping and reporting requirements. These requirements dictate
the type, volume and duration of the record keeping the Bancorp undertakes, either in the role as custodian for an investment company or as a provider of administrative services to an investment company. Further, specific ICA guidelines must be
followed when calculating the net asset value of a client mutual fund. Consequently, changes in the statutes or regulations governing recordkeeping and reporting or valuation calculations will affect the manner in which operations are conducted.

New legislation or regulatory requirements could have a significant impact on the information reporting
requirements applicable to the Bancorp and may in the short term adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to service clients at a reasonable cost. Any failure to provide such support could cause the loss of customers and have a material adverse
effect on financial results. Additionally, legislation or regulations may be proposed or enacted to regulate the Bancorp in a manner that may adversely affect financial results. Furthermore, the mutual fund industry may be significantly affected by
new laws and regulations.

The GLBA amended the federal securities laws to eliminate the blanket
exceptions that banks traditionally have had from the definition of “broker” and “dealer.” The GLBA also required that there be certain transactional activities that would not be “brokerage” activities, which banks
could effect without having to register as a broker. In September 2007, the FRB and SEC approved Regulation R to govern bank securities activities. Various exemptions permit banks to conduct activities that would otherwise constitute brokerage
activities under the securities laws. Those exemptions include conducting brokerage activities related to trust, fiduciary and similar services, certain services and also conducting a de minimis number of riskless principal transactions, certain
asset-backed transactions and certain securities lending transactions. The Bancorp only conducts non-exempt brokerage activities through its affiliated registered broker-dealer.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (Sarbanes-Oxley) implements a broad range of corporate governance and





118Fifth Third Bancorp




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

Additional information regarding regulatory matters is included in Note 28
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008

On October 3, 2008, in response to the stresses experienced in the financial markets, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (EESA)
was enacted. EESA authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase up to $700 billion in troubled assets from financial institutions under the Troubled Asset Relief Program or TARP. Troubled assets include residential or commercial mortgages and
related instruments originated prior to March 14, 2008 and any other financial instrument that the Secretary determines, after consultation with the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the purchase of which is
necessary to promote financial stability. In December 2009, Treasury extended TARP, scheduled to expire on December 31, 2009, to October 3, 2010.

Capital Purchase Program

Pursuant to its authority under EESA, Treasury
created the TARP Capital Purchase Program (CPP) under which the Treasury Department will invest up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock of U.S. banks and savings associations or their holding companies. Qualifying financial institutions may
issue senior preferred stock with a value equal to not less than 1% of

On
December 31, 2008, Bancorp entered into a Letter Agreement (including the Securities Purchase Agreement—





Fifth Third Bancorp119




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



Standard Terms incorporated by reference therein, the “Purchase Agreement) with Treasury pursuant to which the Company issued and sold to Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $3.4 billion in cash: (i) 136,320 shares of the Company’s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series F, having a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the “Series F Preferred Stock), and (ii) a
ten-year warrant to purchase up to 43,617,747 shares of the Company’s common stock, no par value per share, at an initial exercise price of $11.72 per share.

In the Purchase Agreement, the Bancorp agreed that, until such time as Treasury ceases to own any debt or equity securities of the Bancorp acquired pursuant to the Purchase
Agreement, the Bancorp will take all necessary action to ensure that its benefit plans with respect to its senior executive officers comply with Section 111(b) of EESA as implemented by any guidance or regulation under the EESA that has been
issued and is in effect as of the date of issuance of the Series F Preferred Stock and the Warrant, and has agreed to not adopt any benefit plans with respect to, or which covers, its senior executive officers that do not comply with the EESA.

Importantly, the CPP may be unilaterally amended by the Treasury. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to
further restrictions or obligations as a result of its participation in the CPP or redemption of CPP.

TLG Program

Pursuant to EESA, on November 21, 2008, the FDIC adopted a final rule relating to the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty Program (TLGP).
Included within the TLGP was the Transaction Account Guarantee Program in which the FDIC will provide full FDIC deposit insurance coverage for all non-interest-bearing transaction accounts through June 30, 2010 (extended from December 31,
2009 subject to an opt-out provision, by subsequent amendment). Coverage under the Transaction Account Guarantee Program was available for the first 30 days without charge. Thereafter, the fee assessment for deposit insurance coverage is assessed on
a quarterly basis at an annualized 10 basis points per quarter on amounts in covered accounts exceeding $250,000 for 2008. During the six month extension period in 2010, the fee assessment increases to 15 basis points per quarter for institutions in
Risk Category I of the risk based premium system. The Company elected to participate in the Transaction Account Guarantee Program and not opt out of the six month extension.

Capital Assistance Program

On February 25, 2009, under its Financial
Stability Plan, Treasury announced the Capital Assistance Program (“CAP”). The CAP did not replace the CPP and was open to qualifying institutions regardless of whether they participated in the CPP. The deadline to apply for the CAP was
November 9, 2009. Bancorp did not participate in the CAP.

Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility

Under the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (“TALF”), the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is authorized to lend up to
$200 billion to eligible owners of certain AAA-rated asset backed securities backed by newly and recently originated auto loans, credit card loans, student loans, and SBA-guaranteed small business loans, and commercial mortgage-backed securities
(“CMBS”). Any U.S. company that owns eligible collateral may borrow from the TALF, provided the company maintains an account relationship with a primary dealer. The facility will cease making loans collateralized by newly issued CMBS on
June 30, 2010, and loans collateralized

by all other types of TALF-eligible newly issued and legacy CMBS on March 31, 2010, unless the FRB extends the facility.

Supervisory Capital Assessment Program

On February 10, 2009, Treasury
announced a new financial stability plan (the “Financial Stability Plan”), which builds upon existing programs and earmarks the second $350 billion of unused funds originally authorized under EESA. Pursuant to the CAP, the Bancorp, along
with the other domestic bank holding companies with assets of more than $100 billion at December 31, 2008, was subject to a forward-looking stress test called the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (the “SCAP”). The SCAP exam
evaluated the projected level and quality of each institution’s capital during specified economic scenarios through the end of 2010, which included a baseline scenario, reflecting a consensus estimate of private-sector forecasters, and a more
adverse scenario, reflecting an economic situation more severe than is generally anticipated.

Regulatory Reform

Incentive Compensation Proposals. On October 22, 2009, the FRB proposed guidance
on incentive compensation intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking.

The guidance would apply to all banking organizations supervised by the FRB and covers all employees that have the
ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group. The proposed guidance would apply to incentive compensation arrangements for: (i) senior executives and others who are responsible for
oversight of the organization’s firm-wide activities or material business lines; (ii) individual employees, including non-executives, whose activities may expose the organization to material amounts of risk; and (iii) groups of
employees who are subject to the same or similar incentive compensation arrangements and who, in the aggregate, may expose the organization to material amounts of risk.





120Fifth Third Bancorp




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

In connection with the proposed guidance, the Federal Reserve also announced that it will conduct a special horizontal review of incentive
compensation practices at 28 large complex banking organizations to ensure the organizations do not encourage excessive risk taking and otherwise comply with the principles set forth in the proposed guidance. Enforcement actions may be taken against
a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective
measures to correct the deficiencies.

In addition, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC announced that it
would seek public comment on whether banks with compensation plans that encourage risky behavior should be charged at higher deposit assessment rates than such banks would otherwise be charged.

The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators’ policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and
are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to hire, retain and motivate its key employees.

The Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee

On January 14, 2010, the current administration announced a proposal to impose a Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee on those financial institutions with over $50 billion in consolidated assets. Such
Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee would be collected by the Internal Revenue Service and would be approximately fifteen basis points, or 0.15%, of an amount calculated by subtracting a covered institution’s Tier I capital and FDIC-assessed
deposits (and/or an adjustment for insurance liabilities covered by state guarantee funds) from such institution’s total assets.

The Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee, if implemented as proposed, would go into effect on June 30, 2010 and remain in place for at least ten years. Treasury would be asked to report after five
years on the effectiveness of the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee as well as its progress in repaying projected losses to the U.S. government as a result of TARP. If losses to the U.S. government as a result of TARP have not been recouped after
ten years, the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee would remain in place until such losses have been recovered.

Legislative Reform.

In 2009, the U.S. President’s administration proposed a wide range of regulatory reforms that, if enacted, may have
significant effects on the financial services industry in the United States. Significant aspects of the administration’s proposals that may affect the Bancorp included, among other things, proposals: (i) to reassess and increase capital
requirements for banks and bank holding companies and examine the types of instruments that qualify as regulatory capital; (ii) to create a federal consumer financial protection agency to be the primary federal consumer protection supervisor
with broad examination, supervision and enforcement authority with respect to consumer financial products and services; (iii) to further limit the ability of banks to engage in transactions with affiliates; and (iv) to subject all
“over-the-counter” derivatives markets to comprehensive regulation.

The U.S. Congress, state
lawmaking bodies and federal and state regulatory agencies continue to consider a number of wide-ranging and comprehensive proposals for altering the structure, regulation and competitive relationships of the

nation’s financial institutions, including rules and regulations related to the administration’s proposals. Separate comprehensive financial reform bills intended to address the
proposals set forth by the administration were introduced in both houses of Congress in the second half of 2009 and remain under review by both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate. The Bancorp cannot predict whether or in what form
further legislation or regulations may be adopted or the extent to which the Bancorp and its subsidiaries may be affected thereby.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Bancorp’s executive offices and the main office of Fifth Third Bank are
located on Fountain Square Plaza in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio in a 32-story office tower, a five-story office building with an attached parking garage and a separate ten-story office building known as the Fifth Third Center, the William S. Rowe
Building and the 530 Building, respectively. The Bancorp’s main operations center is located in Cincinnati, Ohio, in a three-story building with an attached parking garage known as the Madisonville Operations Center. A subsidiary of the Bancorp
owns 100% of these buildings.

At December 31, 2009, the Bancorp, through its banking and non-banking
subsidiaries, operated 1,309 banking centers, of which 896 were owned, 278 were leased and 135 for which the buildings are owned but the land is leased. The banking centers are located in the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois,
Florida, Tennessee, North Carolina, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Missouri, and Georgia. The Bancorp’s significant owned properties are owned free from mortgages and major encumbrances.





Fifth Third Bancorp121




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP

Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the meeting of Directors immediately following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The names, ages and positions of the
Executive Officers of the Bancorp as of February 26, 2010 are listed below along with their business experience during the past 5 years:

Kevin T. Kabat, 53. Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Bancorp since June 2008, June 2006 and April 2007, respectively. Previously, Mr. Kabat was Executive Vice
President of the Bancorp since December 2003.

Greg D. Carmichael, 48. Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Bancorp since June 2006. Prior to that he was the Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Bancorp since June 2003

Mark D. Hazel, 44. Senior Vice President and Controller of the Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that he was the Assistant Controller of the Bancorp since 2006 and was the Controller of Nonbank
entities since 2003.

Gregory L. Kosch, 50. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since June 2005. Previously,
Mr. Kosch was Senior Vice President and head of the Bancorp’s Commercial Division in the Chicago affiliate since June 2002.

Bruce K. Lee, 49. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since June 2005. Previously, Mr. Lee was President and CEO of Fifth Third Bank (Northwestern Ohio) since July 2002.

Daniel T. Poston, 51. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since June 2003, and Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp since
September 2009. Previously, Mr. Poston was the Controller of the Bancorp from July 2007 to May 2008 and from November 2008 to September 2009. Previously, Mr. Poston was the Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp from May 2008 to November
2008. Formerly, Mr. Poston was the Auditor of the Bancorp since October 2001 and was Senior Vice President of the Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank since January 2002.

Paul L. Reynolds, 48. Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of the Bancorp since September 1999, January 2002 and January 2002, respectively.

Mahesh Sankaran,47. Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Bancorp since June 2006. Previously, Mr. Sankaran was Treasurer
for Huntington Bancshares Incorporated since February 2005. Prior to that Mr. Sankaran was Treasurer for Compass Bankshares, Inc.

Robert A. Sullivan, 54. Senior Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since December 2002.

Mary E.
Tuuk, 45. Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Bancorp since June 2007. Previously, Ms. Tuuk was Senior Vice President of Fifth Third Bancorp since 2003.

Terry E. Zink, 58. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since March 2007 and President and CEO of Fifth Third Bank (Chicago) since January 2005.



PART IIITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIESThe information required by this item is included in the Corporate Information found on the inside of the back cover and in the discussion of dividend limitations that the
subsidiaries can pay to the Bancorp discussed in Note 28 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 31, 2009, the Bancorp had approximately 59,426 shareholders of record.Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPeriodSharesPurchased(a)AveragePricePaid PerShareSharesPurchasedas Part ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans
orProgramsMaximumShares thatMay BePurchasedUnder thePlans
orProgramsOctober 2009-$--19,201,518November 2009---19,201,518December 2009---19,201,518Total-$--19,201,518(a)The Bancorp repurchased 15,459, 0, and 3,409 shares during October, November and December of 2009 in connection with various employee compensation
plans of the Bancorp. These purchases are not included against the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the Board of Directors authorization.





122Fifth Third Bancorp




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



The following performance graphs do not constitute soliciting material and
should not be deemed filed or incorporated by reference into any other Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Bancorp specifically incorporates the performance graphs by
reference therein.

Total Return Analysis

The graphs below summarize the cumulative return experienced by the Bancorp’s shareholders over the years 2005 through 2009, and 2000 through 2009, respectively, compared to the S&P 500 Stock and
the S&P Banks indices.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP VS. MARKET INDICES





Fifth Third Bancorp123




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The
information required by this item relating to the Executive Officers of the Registrant is included in PART I under “EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP.”

The information required by this item concerning Directors and the nomination process is incorporated herein by reference under the caption “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS” of the
Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this
item concerning the Audit Committee and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is incorporated herein by reference under the captions “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the
Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this
item concerning Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is incorporated herein by reference under the caption “SECTION 16 (a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement
for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the captions “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS,” “COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT” and “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the
2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

Security ownership information of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated herein by reference
under the captions “CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS,” “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS” and “COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy
Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning
Equity Compensation Plan information is included in Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item is incorporated
herein by reference under the captions “CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS”, “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS”, “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy
Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the caption “PRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM FEES” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

Financial Statements FiledPagesReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm63Fifth Third Bancorp and Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements64-67Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements68-113

The schedules for the Bancorp and its subsidiaries are omitted because of the absence of conditions under which they are required, or because the information is set forth in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or the notes thereto.

The following lists the Exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.





2.1Master Investment Agreement (excluding exhibits and schedules) dated as of March 27, 2009 and amended as of June 30, 2009, among Fifth Third Bank,
Fifth Third Financial Corporation, Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., FTPS Holding, LLC and Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

3.1Second Amended Articles of Incorporation of Fifth Third Bancorp, as amended. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2008.

3.2Code of Regulations of Fifth Third Bancorp, as amended. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2008.

4.1Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Debenture Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.2Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of March 20, 1997 of Fifth Third Capital Trust II, among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Depositor, Wilmington Trust
Company, as Property Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.3Guarantee Agreement, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.4Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as the holder of the Common Securities of Fifth Third Capital
Trust I and Fifth Third Capital Trust II. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.5Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2003, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.6Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 4.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.7First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 20, 2006, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.8Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 5.45% Subordinated Notes due 2017. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.9Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $250,000,000 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes due 2016. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.10First Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the Junior Subordinated
Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2007.





124Fifth Third Bancorp




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K





4.11Certificate Representing $500,000,000.00 of 6.50% Junior Subordinated Notes of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.12Certificate Representing $250,010,000.00 of 6.50% Junior Subordinated Notes of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.13Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of March 30, 2007 of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Sponsor, Wilmington Trust
Company, as Property Trustee and Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.14Certificate Representing 500,000 6.50% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV (liquidation amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred Security).
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.15Certificate Representing 250,000 6.50% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV (liquidation amount $1,000 per Trust Preferred Security).
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.16Certificate Representing 10 6.50% Common Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV (liquidation amount $1,000 per Common Security). Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.17Guarantee Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.18Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Capital Trust IV. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.

4.19Replacement Capital Covenant of Fifth Third Bancorp dated as of March 30, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2007.

4.20Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 8, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the Junior Subordinated
Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007.

4.21Certificate Representing $500,010,000 of 7.25% Junior Subordinated Notes of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007.

4.22Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of August 8, 2007 of Fifth Third Capital Trust V among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Sponsor, Wilmington Trust
Company, as Property Trustee and Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007.

4.23Certificate Representing 20,000,000 7.25% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust V (liquidation amount $25 per Trust Preferred Security).
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007.

4.24Certificate Representing 400 7.25% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust V (liquidation amount $25 per Trust Preferred Security). Incorporated
by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.

4.25Guarantee Agreement, dated as of August 8, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007.

4.26Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of August 8, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Capital Trust V. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form



10-Q filed for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.

4.27Replacement Capital Covenant of Fifth Third Bancorp dated as of August 8, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007.

4.28Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the Junior Subordinated
Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third and the trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2007.

4.29Certificate Representing $862,510,000 of 7.25% Junior Subordinated Notes of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2007.

4.30Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of October 30, 2007 of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Sponsor, Wilmington Trust
Company, as Property Trustee and Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31,
2007.

4.31Certificate Representing 20,000,000 7.25% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI (liquidation amount $25 per Trust Preferred Security).
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2007. (Issuer also entered into an identical certificate on October 30, 2007 representing $362,500,000
in aggregate liquidation amount of 7.25% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI.)

4.32Certificate Representing 400 7.25% Common Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI (liquidation amount $25 per Trust Preferred Security). Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.

4.33Guarantee Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2007.

4.34Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of October 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Capital Trust VI. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.

4.35Replacement Capital Covenant of Fifth Third Bancorp dated as of October 30, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 31, 2007.

4.36Global security dated as of March 4, 2008 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 2038. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. (1)

4.37Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee. Incorporated by reference
to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.38Global security dated as of April 30, 2008 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 6.25% Senior Notes due 2013. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008. (2)

4.39Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 6, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the Junior Subordinated Indenture
dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.40$400,010,000.00 8.875% Junior Subordinated Note dated as of May 6, 2008 of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration
Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.





Fifth Third Bancorp125




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K





4.41Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Fifth Third Capital Trust VII dated as of May 6, 2008 among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Sponsor, Wilmington Trust
Company, as Property Trustee and Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6,
2008.

4.42Certificate dated as of May 6, 2008 representing 16,000,000 ($400,000,000) 8.875% Trust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VII (liquidation amount
$25 per Trust Preferred Security). Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.43Certificate dated as of May 6, 2008 representing 400 ($10,000) 8.875% Common Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VII (liquidation amount $25 per Common
Security). Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.44Guarantee Agreement dated as of May 6, 2008 for Fifth Third Capital Trust VII between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as
Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.45Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of May 6, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Capital Trust VII. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.46Deposit Agreement dated June 25, 2008, between Fifth Third Bancorp, Wilmington Trust Company, as depositary and conversion agent and American Stock Transfer
and Trust Company, as transfer agent, and the holders from time to time of the Receipts described therein. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on June 25, 2008.

4.47Form of Certificate Representing the 8.50 % Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 25, 2008.

4.48Form of Depositary Receipt for the 8.50 % Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 25, 2008.

4.49Warrant to Purchase up to 43,617,747 shares of Common Stock. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008.

10.1Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed for fiscal year ended December 31, 1985. *

10.2Fifth Third Bancorp 1990 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to
the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-34075. *

10.3Fifth Third Bancorp 1987 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to
the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-13252. *

10.4Indenture effective November 19, 1992 between Fifth Third Bancorp, Issuer and NBD Bank, N.A., Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 1992 and as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 33-54134.

10.5Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2004. *

10.6Fifth Third Bancorp Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated February 19, 2004. *

10.7Amended and Restated Fifth Third Bancorp 1993 Stock Purchase Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2003. *



10.8Fifth Third Bancorp 1998 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2003.*

10.9Fifth Third Bancorp Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. *

10.10CNB Bancshares, Inc. 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, 1995 Stock Incentive Plan, 1992 Stock Incentive Plan and Associate Stock Option Plan; and Indiana Federal
Corporation 1986 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration No. 333-84955 and by reference to
CNB Bancshares Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998. *

10.11Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated February 9, 2001.*

10.12Amendment No. 1 to Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on May 26, 2006. *

10.13Old Kent Executive Stock Option Plan of 1986, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to the following filings by Old Kent Financial Corporation with the
Securities and Exchange Commission: Exhibit 10 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995; Exhibit 10.19 to Form 8-K filed on March 5, 1997; Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K filed on March 2, 2000. *

10.14Old Kent Stock Option Incentive Plan of 1992, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to the following filings by Old Kent Financial Corporation with the
Securities and Exchange Commission: Exhibit 10(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995; Exhibit 10.20 to Form 8-K filed on March 5, 1997; Exhibit 10(d) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997; Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K filed on
March 2, 2000. *

10.15Old Kent Executive Stock Incentive Plan of 1997, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to Old Kent Financial Corporation’s Annual Meeting Proxy Statement
dated March 1, 1997. *

10.16Old Kent Stock Incentive Plan of 1999. Incorporated by reference to Old Kent Financial Corporation’s Annual Meeting Proxy Statement dated March 1, 1999. *

10.17Notice of Grant of Performance Units and Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2004. *

10.18Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock and Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *

10.19Notice of Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights and Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2004. *

10.20Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock and Award Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *

10.21Franklin Financial Corporation 1990 Incentive Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Franklin Financial Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1989.*

10.22Franklin Financial Corporation 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Franklin Financial Corporation’s Registration Statement on
Form S-8, Registration No. 333-52928. *

10.23Amended and Restated First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc. 2003 Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to First National Bankshares of Florida,
Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. *

10.24Southern Community Bancorp Equity Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp’s Registration Statement on Form SB-2,
Registration No. 333-35548. *

10.25Southern Community Bancorp Director Statutory Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp’s Registration Statement on
Form SB-2, Registration No. 333-35548. *





126Fifth Third Bancorp




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K





10.26Peninsula Bank of Central Florida Key Employee Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2003. *

10.27Peninsula Bank of Central Florida Director Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2003. *

10.28First Bradenton Bank Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2004. *

10.29Letter Agreement with R. Mark Graf. Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2005. *

10.30Amendment Dated January 16, 2006 to the Letter Agreement with R. Mark Graf. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 17, 2006.

10.31Separation Agreement between Fifth Third Bancorp and Neal E. Arnold dated as of December 14, 2005. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 22, 2005. *

10.32Stipulation and Agreement of Settlement dated March 29, 2005, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 2005.

10.33Amendment to Stipulation dated May 10, 2005. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on November 18, 2005.

10.34Second Amendment to Stipulation dated August 12, 2005. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on November 18, 2005.

10.35Order and Final Judgment of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 2005.

10.36Offer letter from Fifth Third Bancorp to Ross J. Kari. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on November 12, 2008. *

10.37Separation Agreement between Fifth Third Bancorp and Christopher G. Marshall dated May 1, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 2, 2008. *

10.38Letter Agreement, dated December 31, 2008, including Securities Purchase Agreement – Standard Terms incorporated by reference therein, between the Company
and the United States Department of the Treasury. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008.

10.39Form of Waiver, executed by each of Messrs. Kevin Kabat, Ross Kari, Greg Carmichael, Charles Drucker, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, Robert A. Sullivan and Terry
Zink. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *

10.40Form of Letter Agreement, executed by each of Messrs. Kevin Kabat, Ross Kari, Greg Carmichael, Charles Drucker, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, Robert A. Sullivan and
Terry Zink with the Company. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *

10.41Form of Executive Agreements effective December 31, 2008, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Kevin T. Kabat, Robert A. Sullivan, Greg D. Carmichael, Ross Kari,
Bruce K. Lee, Charles D. Drucker and Terry Zink. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *

10.42Form of Executive Agreements effective December 31, 2008, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Nancy Phillips, Daniel T. Poston, Paul L. Reynolds and Mary E. Tuuk.
Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *

10.43Form of Executive Agreement effective December 31, 2008, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Mahesh Sankaran. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *



10.44Warrant dated June 30, 2009 issued by FTPS Holding, LLC to Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.45Amended & Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (excluding certain exhibits) dated as of June 30, 2009 among Advent-Kong Blocker Corp.,
Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and FTPS Holding, LLC. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.46Amendment and Restatement Agreement and Reaffirmation (excluding certain schedules) dated as of June 30, 2009 among Fifth Third Processing Solutions,
LLC, FTPS Holding, LLC, Card Management Company, LLC, Fifth Third Holdings, LLC and Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.47Registration Rights Agreement dated as of June 30, 2009 among Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and
FTPS Holding, LLC. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.48Form of Agreement Regarding Portion of Salary Payable in Phantom Stock Units dated October 16, 2009 executed by Kevin Kabat, Greg Carmichael, Greg Kosch,
Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, Paul Reynolds, Robert Sullivan, and Terry Zink. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. *

12.1Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

12.2Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.

14Code of Ethics. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on January 23, 2007.

21Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2009.

23Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-Deloitte & Touche LLP.

31(i)Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer.

31(ii)Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial Officer.

32(i)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive
Officer.

32(ii)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial
Officer.

99.1Certification Pursuant to Section 111 (b)(4) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 by Chief Executive Officer

99.2Certification Pursuant to Section 111 (b)(4) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 by Chief Financial Officer

101Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements tagged as blocks of text. **

(1)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on March 4, 2008 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 2038.

(2)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on April 30, 2008 representing an additional $250,000,000 of its 6.25% Senior Notes due 2013.

*Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

**As provided in Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, this information is furnished and not filed for purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.





Fifth Third Bancorp127




ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.FIFTH THIRD BANCORPRegistrantKevin T. KabatChairman, President and CEOPrincipal Executive
OfficerFebruary 26, 2010Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed on February 26, 2010 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities
indicated.OFFICERS:Kevin T. KabatChairman, President and CEOPrincipal Executive OfficerDaniel T. PostonExecutive Vice President and CFOPrincipal Financial OfficerMark D. HazelSenior Vice President and ControllerPrincipal
Accounting OfficerDIRECTORS:Darryl F. AllenUlysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.Emerson L. BrumbackJames P. HackettGary R. HemingerJewell D. HooverKevin T. KabatMitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D.Hendrik G. MeijerJohn J. Schiff, Jr.Dudley S. TaftThomas W. TraylorMarsha C. Williams







128Fifth Third Bancorp




CONSOLIDATED TEN YEAR COMPARISON



AVERAGE ASSETS ($ IN MILLIONS)Interest-Earning AssetsYearLoans andLeasesFederal FundsSold (a)Interest-BearingDeposits inBanks (a)SecuritiesTotalCash and Duefrom BanksOtherAssetsTotalAverageAssets2009$83,391$12$1,023$17,100$101,526$2,329$14,266$114,856200885,83543818313,42499,8802,49013,411114,296200778,34825714711,63090,3822,27510,613102,477200673,49325214420,91094,7992,4778,713105,238200567,7378811324,80692,7442,7508,102102,876200457,04212019530,28287,6392,2165,76394,896200352,4149221528,64081,3611,6005,25087,481200245,53915518423,24669,1241,5515,00775,037200144,8886913219,73764,8261,4825,00070,683200042,6901188218,63061,5201,4564,22966,611



AVERAGE DEPOSITS AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS ($ IN MILLIONS)DepositsYearDemandInterestCheckingSavingsMoneyMarketOtherTimeCertificates- $100,000and OverForeignOfficeTotalShort-TermBorrowingsTotal2009$16,862$15,070$16,875$4,320$14,103$10,367$2,265$79,862$6,980$86,842200814,01714,19116,1926,12711,1359,5314,22075,41310,76086,173200713,26114,82014,8366,30810,7786,4663,15569,6246,89076,514200613,74116,65012,1896,36610,5005,7953,71168,9528,67077,622200513,86818,88410,0075,1708,4914,0013,96764,3889,51173,899200412,32719,4347,9413,4736,2082,4034,44956,23513,53969,774200310,48218,6798,0203,1896,4263,8323,86254,49012,37366,86320028,95316,2399,4651,1628,8552,2372,01848,9297,19156,12020017,39411,4894,9282,55213,4733,8211,99245,6498,79954,44820006,2579,5315,79993913,7164,2833,89644,4219,72554,146



INCOME ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)Per Share(b) (c)Originally ReportedYearInterestIncomeInterestExpenseNoninterestIncomeNoninterestExpenseNet Income(Loss)Available toCommonShareholdersEarningsDilutedEarningsDividendsDeclaredEarningsDilutedEarnings2009$4,668$1,314$4,782$3,826$511$0.73$0.67.04$0.73$0.6720085,6082,0942,9464,564(2,180)(3.91)(3.91).75(3.94)(3.94)20076,0273,0182,4673,3111,0751.991.981.702.001.9920065,9553,0822,0122,9151,1882.132.121.582.142.1320054,9952,0302,3742,8011,5482.792.771.462.792.7720044,1141,1022,3552,8631,5242.722.681.312.722.6820033,9911,0862,3982,4661,6642.912.871.132.912.8720024,1291,4302,1112,2651,5302.642.59.982.642.5920014,7092,2781,7322,3971,0011.741.70.831.741.7020004,9472,6971,4301,9811,0541.861.83.701.701.68



MISCELLANEOUS AT DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)Shareholders’ EquityYearCommon SharesOutstanding(c)CommonStockPreferredStockCapitalSurplusRetainedEarningsAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeTreasuryStockTotalBook ValuePerShare(b)Allowancefor Loanand LeaseLosses2009795,068,164$1,779$3,609$1,743$6,326$241$(201)$13,497$12.44$3,7492008577,386,6121,2954,2418485,82498(229)12,07713.572,7872007532,671,9251,29591,7798,413(126)(2,209)9,16117.189372006556,252,6741,29591,8128,317(179)(1,232)10,02218.007712005555,623,4301,29591,8278,007(413)(1,279)9,44616.987442004557,648,9891,29591,9347,269(169)(1,414)8,92415.997132003566,685,3011,29591,9646,481(120)(962)8,66715.296972002574,355,2471,29592,0105,465369(544)8,60414.986832001582,674,5801,29491,9434,5028(4)7,75213.316242000569,056,8431,26391,4543,98228(1)6,73511.83609

(a)Federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in banks are combined in other short-term investments in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)Adjusted for accounting guidance relating to the calculation of earnings per share, which was adopted retroactively on January 1, 2009.

(c)Adjusted for stock splits in 2000.



Fifth Third Bancorp129




DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS





FIFTH THIRD BANCORP DIRECTORSKevin T. KabatChairman, President & CEOFifth Third BancorpDarryl F. AllenRetired Chairman President & CEOAeroquip-Vickers, Inc.Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.PresidentERJ Inc. and Manna, Inc.Emerson L. BrumbackRetired President & COOM&T Bank.James P.
HackettPresident & CEOSteelcase, Inc.Gary R. HemingerExecutive Vice PresidentMarathon Oil
CorporationJewell D. HooverPrincipalHoover and Associates,LLCMitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D.Vice President for Student Affairs and ServicesUniversity of CincinnatiHendrik G. MeijerCo-Chairman & CEOMeijer,
Inc.John J. Schiff, Jr.ChairmanCincinnati Financial
Corporation &Cincinnati Insurance CompanyDudley S. TaftPresidentTaft Broadcasting CompanyThomas W. TraylorChairman & CEOTraylor Bros., Inc.Marsha C. WilliamsSenior Vice
President & Chief Financial OfficerOrbitz Worldwide, Inc.



DIRECTORS EMERITINeil
A. ArmstrongPhilip G. BarachVincent
H. BeckmanJ. Kenneth BlackwellMilton C. Boesel, Jr.Douglas G. CowanThomas L. DahlRonald A. DauweGerald V. DirvinThomas B. DonnellNicholas M. EvansRichard T. FarmerLouis R. FioreJohn D. GearyIvan W. GorrJoseph H. Head, Jr.William G. KaglerWilliam J. KeatingJerry L. KirbyRobert B. MorganMichael H. NorrisDavid E. ReeseC. Wesley RowlesDonald B. ShackelfordDavid B. SharrockStephen StranahanDennis J. Sullivan, Jr.N. Beverley Tucker, Jr.Alton C. WendzelFIFTH THIRD BANCORP OFFICERSKevin T. KabatChairman, President & CEOGreg D. CarmichaelExecutive Vice
President & Chief Operating OfficerMark D. HazelSenior Vice President & ControllerGregory L. KoschExecutive Vice PresidentBruce K. LeeExecutive Vice PresidentDaniel T. PostonExecutive Vice President & Chief Financial OfficerPaul L. ReynoldsExecutive Vice President, Secretary & Chief Administrative OfficerMahesh SankaranSenior Vice President &
TreasurerRobert A. SullivanSenior Executive Vice PresidentMary E. TuukExecutive Vice President &
Chief Risk OfficerTerry E. ZinkExecutive Vice President



AFFILIATE CHAIRMENCharlie W. Brinkley, Jr.Central FloridaH. Lee CooperSouthern IndianaGordon E. InmanTennesseeDonald B.
ShackelfordCentral OhioJohn S. SzuchNorthwestern OhioREGIONAL PRESIDENTSTodd F. ClossinDan W. HoganRobert A. SullivanMichelle L. VanDykeTerry E. ZinkAFFILIATE PRESIDENTS & CEOsSamuel G. BarnesCentral KentuckyJohn H. Bultema IIIWestern MichiganDavid A. CallSouth FloridaTodd F.
ClossinNortheastern OhioJohn N. DanielSouthern IndianaKaren DeeCentral FloridaDavid
GirodatEastern MichiganDan W. HoganTennesseeRobert E. James, Jr.North CarolinaBrian
P. KeenanTampa BayRobert W. LaClairNorthwestern
OhioPhilip R. McHughLouisvilleJordan A. Miller, Jr.Central OhioJohn E. PelizzariCentral IndianaRobert
A. SullivanCincinnatiTerry E. ZinkChicago



FIFTH THIRD BANCORP BOARD COMMITTEESFinance CommitteeKevin T. Kabat, ChairJames P. HackettGary R. HemingerDudley S. TaftAudit CommitteeDarryl F. Allen, ChairUlysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.Emerson L.
BrumbackMarsha C. WilliamsCompensation CommitteeGary R. Heminger,
ChairMitchel D. Livingston, Ph. D.Hendrik G. MeijerNominating and Corporate Governance
CommitteeJames P. Hackett, ChairDarryl F. AllenMarsha C. WilliamsRisk and Compliance CommitteeMarsha C.
Williams, ChairUlysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.Jewell D. HooverHendrik G. MeijerDudley S. TaftThomas W. TraylorTrust CommitteeMitchel D. Livingston,
Ph.D., ChairKevin T. KabatJohn J.
Schiff, Jr.







130Fifth Third Bancorp

