ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General Information

The
Bancorp, an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is a bank holding company (“BHC”) as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), and is registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (the “FRB”). The Bancorp’s principal office is located in Cincinnati, Ohio.

The
Bancorp’s subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial products and services to the retail, commercial, financial, governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide variety of checking, savings and money market accounts, and
credit products such as credit cards, installment loans, mortgage loans and leases. Fifth Third Bank has deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) through the Deposit Insurance Fund. Refer to
Exhibit 21 filed as an attachment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of December 31, 2014.

The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers
domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Additional
information regarding the Bancorp’s businesses is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Competition

The Bancorp
competes for deposits, loans and other banking services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to the challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking
services, the Bancorp’s competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and insurance companies. These competitors, with focused products targeted at highly profitable customer segments, compete across
geographic boundaries and provide customers increasing access to meaningful alternatives to banking services in nearly all significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in
technology, product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. These competitive trends are likely to continue.

Acquisitions

The
Bancorp’s strategy for growth includes strengthening its presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and broadening its product offerings while taking into account the integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates
strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities in connection with possible transactions. As a result, discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity
securities may occur. These typically involve the payment of a premium over book value and current market price, and therefore, some dilution of book value and net income per share may occur with any future transactions.

Regulation and Supervision

In addition to the generally applicable state and federal laws governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are
subject to extensive regulation by federal and state laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions and their parent companies. Virtually all aspects of the business of the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to specific
requirements or restrictions and general regulatory oversight. The





172  Fifth Third Bancorp




principal objectives of state and federal banking laws and regulations and the supervision, regulation and examination of banks and their parent companies (such as the Bancorp) by bank regulatory
agencies are the maintenance of the safety and soundness of financial institutions, maintenance of the federal deposit insurance system and the protection of consumers or classes of consumers, rather than the specific protection of shareholders of a
bank or the parent company of a bank. To the extent the following material describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statute or regulation.

Regulators

The Bancorp
and/or its banking subsidiary are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the FRB, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”) and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions (the “Division”) and additionally
by certain other functional regulators and self-regulatory organizations. The Bancorp is also subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of its status as a public company and due to the nature of some of its businesses. The Bancorp’s banking
subsidiary is subject to regulation by the FDIC, which insures the bank’s deposits as permitted by law.

The
federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable to banks and to BHCs regulate, among other matters, the scope of their business, their activities, their investments, capital and liquidity levels, their reserves against deposits, the
timing of the availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual and related borrowers and the nature, amount of and collateral for certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged on loans as applicable. Various federal
and state consumer laws and regulations also affect the services provided to consumers.

The Bancorp and/or its
subsidiary are required to file various reports with, and is subject to examination by regulators, including the FRB and the Division. The FRB, Division and the CFPB have the authority to issue orders BHCs and/or banks to cease and desist from
certain banking practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of agreements with, the FRB, Division and CFPB. Certain of the Bancorp’s and/or its banking subsidiary regulators are also empowered to assess civil money
penalties against companies or individuals in certain situations, such as when there is a violation of a law or regulation. Applicable state and federal laws also grant certain regulators the authority to impose additional requirements and
restrictions on the activities of the Bancorp and or its banking subsidiary and, in some situations, the imposition of such additional requirements and restrictions will not be publicly available information.

Acquisitions

The BHCA
requires the prior approval of the FRB for a BHC to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank or to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any bank, BHC or savings association, or to
increase any such non-majority ownership or control of any bank, BHC or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with any BHC.

The BHCA prohibits a BHC from acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 5% of any class of the
voting shares of a company that is not a bank or a BHC and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its banking subsidiaries, except that it may engage in
and may own shares of companies engaged in certain activities the FRB

has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be proper incident thereto.

Financial Holding Companies

Dividends

The Bancorp
depends in part upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect banking subsidiary, to fund its activities, including the payment of dividends. The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to various
federal and state restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or
unsound practice for BHCs to pay dividends unless a BHC’s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial
condition. The ability to pay dividends may be further limited by provisions of the DFA and implanting regulations (see “Regulatory Reform”).

Source of Strength

Under long-standing FRB policy and now as codified in the DFA, a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to
each of its banking subsidiaries and to commit resources to their support. This support may be required at times when the BHC may not have the resources to provide it.

FDIC Assessments

As
contemplated by the DFA the FDIC has revised the framework by which insured depository institutions with more than $10 billion in assets (“large IDIs”) are assessed for purposes of payments to the Deposit Insurance Fund (the
“DIF”). The final rule implementing revisions to the assessment system took effect for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011.





173  Fifth
Third Bancorp




Prior to the passage of the DFA, a large IDI’s DIF premiums principally
were based on the size of an IDI’s domestic deposit base. The DFA changed the assessment base from a large IDI’s domestic deposit base to its total assets less tangible equity. In addition to potentially greatly increasing the size of a
large IDI’s assessment base, the expansion of the assessment base affords the FDIC much greater flexibility to vary its assessment system based upon the different asset classes that large IDIs normally hold on their balance sheets.

To implement this provision, the FDIC created an assessment scheme vastly different from the deposit-based system. Under the
new system, large IDIs are assessed under a complex “scorecard” methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs.

Transactions with Affiliates

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restrict transactions between a bank and its affiliates (as defined in Sections 23A and 23B
of the Federal Reserve Act), including a parent BHC. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to certain restrictions, including but not limited to restrictions on loans to its affiliates, on investments in the stock or securities thereof,
on the taking of such stock or securities as collateral for loans to any borrower, and on the issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on their behalf. Among other things, these restrictions limit the amount of such transactions, require
collateral in prescribed amounts for extensions of credit, prohibit the purchase of low quality assets and require that the terms of such transactions be substantially equivalent to terms of comparable transactions with non-affiliates. Generally,
the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is limited in its extension of credit to any affiliate to 10% of the banking subsidiary’s capital stock and surplus and its extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of the banking subsidiary’s
capital stock and surplus.

Community Reinvestment Act

The CRA generally requires insured depository institutions to identify the communities they serve and to make loans and investments and
provide services that meet the credit needs of those communities. Furthermore, the CRA requires the FRB to evaluate the performance of the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary in helping to meet the credit needs of its communities. As a part of the CRA
program, the banking subsidiary is subject to periodic examinations by the FRB, and must maintain comprehensive records of their CRA activities for this purpose. During these examinations, the FRB rates such institutions’ compliance with the
CRA as “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” Failure of an institution to receive at least a “Satisfactory” rating could inhibit such institution or its
holding company from undertaking certain activities, including engaging in activities permitted as a financial holding company under the GLBA and acquiring other financial institutions. The FRB must take into account the record of performance of
banks in meeting the credit needs of the entire community served, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Fifth Third Bank received a “Satisfactory” CRA rating in its most recent CRA examination.

Capital

The FRB has
established capital guidelines for BHCs and FHCs. The FRB, the Division and the FDIC have also issued regulations establishing capital requirements for banks. Failure to meet

capital requirements could subject the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary to a variety of restrictions and enforcement actions. In addition, as discussed previously, the Bancorp and its banking
subsidiary must remain well capitalized and well managed for the Bancorp to retain its status as a FHC. See the “Regulatory Reform” section for additional information on capital requirements impacting the Bancorp.

Privacy

The FRB, FDIC
and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted final guidelines (the “Guidelines) for safeguarding confidential, personal customer information. The Guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of
its Board of Directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any
anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bancorp has adopted a
customer information security program that has been approved by the Bancorp’s Board of Directors.

The GLBA
requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies
and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the banking subsidiary’s policies and procedures. The
Bancorp’s banking subsidiary has implemented a privacy policy.

Anti-Money Laundering

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the
“Patriot Act”), designed to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial system, has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the
transfer of money. The Patriot Act, as implemented by various federal regulatory agencies, requires financial institutions, including the Bancorp and its subsidiaries, to implement new policies and procedures or amend existing policies and
procedures with respect to, among other matters, anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act and its underlying regulations also permit information sharing
for counter-terrorist purposes between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, subject to certain conditions, and require the FRB (and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the
effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering activities when considering applications filed under Section 3 of the BHCA or the Bank Merger Act. The Bancorp’s Board has approved policies and procedures that are believed to be
compliant with the Patriot Act.

Exempt Brokerage Activities

The GLBA amended the federal securities laws to eliminate the blanket exceptions that banks traditionally have had from the definition of
“broker” and “dealer.” The GLBA also required that there be certain transactional activities that would not be





174  Fifth Third Bancorp




“brokerage” activities, which banks could effect without having to register as a broker. In September 2007, the FRB and SEC approved Regulation R to govern bank securities activities.
Various exemptions permit banks to conduct activities that would otherwise constitute brokerage activities under the securities laws. Those exemptions include conducting brokerage activities related to trust, fiduciary and similar services, certain
services and also conducting a de minimis number of riskless principal transactions, certain asset-backed transactions and certain securities lending transactions. The Bancorp only conducts non-exempt brokerage activities through its affiliated
registered broker-dealer.

Regulatory Reform

Financial Stability Oversight Council

The DFA created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), which is chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury and composed
of expertise from various financial services regulators. The FSOC has responsibility for identifying risks and responding to emerging threats to financial stability. On March 15, 2012, the Department of Treasury issued an interim final rule to
establish an assessment schedule for the collection of fees from BHCs and foreign banks with at least $50 billion in assets to cover the expenses of the Office of Financial Research and FSOC. The fees would also cover certain expenses incurred by
the FDIC. The Bancorp paid approximately $1 million for the assessment periods from October 1, 2013 through March 31, 2015.

On
August 16, 2013, the FRB also adopted a final rule to implement an assessment provision under the DFA equal to the expense and the FRB estimates are necessary or appropriate to supervise and regulate BHCs with $50 billion or more in assets.

The Bancorp paid approximately $3 million for the 2014 annual assessment period under the FRB’s rule.

Executive Compensation

The DFA provides for a say on pay for shareholders of all public companies. Under the DFA, each company must give its shareholders the
opportunity to vote on the compensation of its executives at least once every three years. The DFA also adds disclosure and voting requirements for golden parachute compensation that is payable to named executive officers in connection with sale
transactions. The SEC adopted rules finalizing these say on pay provisions in January 2011.

Pursuant to the DFA, in
June 2012, the SEC adopted a final rule directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing classes of equity securities if a company’s compensation committee members are not independent. The rule also provides that a company’s compensation
committee may only select a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor after taking into consideration factors to be identified by the SEC that affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor.

The SEC is required under the DFA to issue rules obligating companies to disclose in proxy materials for annual meetings of
shareholders information that shows the relationship between executive compensation actually paid to their named executive officers and their financial performance, taking into account any change in the value of the shares of a company’s stock
and dividends or distributions. The DFA also requires the SEC to propose rules requiring companies to disclose the ratio of the compensation of its chief executive officer to the median compensation of its employees. The SEC proposed rules
implementing the pay ratio provisions in September 2013.

The DFA provides that the SEC must issue rules directing the
stock exchanges to prohibit listing any security of a company unless the company develops and implements a policy providing for disclosure of the policy of the company on incentive-based compensation that is based on financial information required
to be reported under the securities laws and that, in the event the company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the company with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the
company will recover from any current or former executive officer of the company who received incentive-based compensation during the three-year period preceding the date on which the company is required to prepare the restatement based on the
erroneous data, any exceptional compensation above what would have been paid under the restatement.

The DFA requires
the SEC to adopt a rule to require that each company disclose in the proxy materials for its annual meetings whether an employee or board member is permitted to purchase financial instruments designed to hedge or offset decreases in the market value
of equity securities granted as compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board member.

Corporate Governance

The DFA clarifies that the SEC may, but is not required to promulgate rules that would require that a company’s proxy materials include a
nominee for the board of directors submitted by a shareholder. Although the SEC promulgated rules to accomplish this, these rules were invalidated by a federal appeals court decision. The SEC has said that they will not challenge the





175  Fifth
Third Bancorp




ruling, but has not ruled out the possibility that new rules could be proposed.

The DFA requires stock exchanges to have rules prohibiting their members from voting securities that they do not
beneficially own (unless they have received voting instructions from the beneficial owner) with respect to the election of a member of the board of directors (other than an uncontested election of directors of an investment company registered under
the Investment Company Act of 1940), executive compensation or any other significant matter, as determined by the SEC by rule.

Credit
Ratings

The DFA includes a number of provisions that are targeted at improving the reliability of credit ratings. In August of 2014
the SEC adopted new requirements for credit rating agencies to enhance governance, protect against conflicts of interest, and increase transparency to improve the quality of credit rating agency accountability.

Consumer Issues

The DFA
created a new bureau, the CFPB, which has the authority to implement regulations pursuant to numerous consumer protection laws and has supervisory authority, including the power to conduct examination and take enforcement actions, with respect to
depository institutions with more than $10 billion in consolidated assets. The CFPB also has authority, with respect to consumer financial services to, among other things, restrict unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices, enforce laws that
prohibit discrimination and unfair treatment and to require certain consumer disclosures.

Debit Card Interchange Fees

District Court’s grant of summary judgment and remanded the case for further proceedings in accordance with its opinion. The merchants have filed a petition for writ of certiorari to the
U.S. Supreme Court. However, on January 20, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of the Circuit Court reversal, thereby largely upholding the Current Rule and substantially reducing uncertainty surrounding debit card
interchange fees the Bancorp is permitted to charge. Refer to the Noninterest Income subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&A for further information regarding the Bancorp’s debit card interchange revenue.

FDIC Matters and Resolution Planning

Title II of the DFA creates an orderly liquidation process that the FDIC can employ for failing systemically important financial companies.
Additionally, the DFA also codifies many of the temporary changes that had already been implemented, such as permanently increasing the amount of deposit insurance to $250,000.

In January 2012, the FDIC issued a final rule that requires an insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in
total assets to submit periodic contingency plans to the FDIC for resolution in the event of the institution’s failure. The rule became effective in January 2012; however, submission of plans are staggered over a period of time. The
Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to this rule and submitted its most recent resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2014.

In October 2011, the FRB and FDIC issued a final rule implementing the resolution planning requirements of
Section 165(d) of the DFA. The final rule requires BHCs with assets of $50 billion or more and nonbank financial firms designated by FSOC for supervision by the FRB to annually submit resolution plans to the FDIC and FRB. Each plan shall
describe the company’s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy during times of financial distress. Under the final rule, companies must submit their initial resolution plans on a staggered basis. The Bancorp submitted its most
recent resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2014.

Proprietary Trading and Investing in Certain Funds

De minimis





176  Fifth Third Bancorp




which it serves as investment manager or investment advisor. The Bancorp is required under the Final Rules to demonstrate that it has a Volcker Rule compliance program. In connection with the
issuance of the Final Rules, the Federal Reserve extended the conformance period generally until July 21, 2015. The Final Rules became effective April 2014 and in December 2014, the FRB extended the compliance period through July 2016 for
investments in and relationships with such covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013, and indicated that it intends to further extend the compliance period for such investments through July 2017. Further, with respect to
covered funds that are “illiquid funds”, the FRB has the authority to grant up to five more years for the Bancorp to conform to the final Volcker Rule with respect to such illiquid funds.

Derivatives

Interstate Bank Branching

The DFA includes provisions permitting national and insured state banks to engage inde novointerstate branching if, under the laws of
the state where the new branch is to be established, a state bank chartered in that state would be permitted to establish a branch.

Systemically Significant Companies and Capital

Title I of the DFA creates a new regulatory regime for large BHCs. U.S. BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including
Fifth Third, are subject to enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements under Title I. Title I of the DFA establishes a broad framework for identifying, applying heightened supervision and regulation to, and (as necessary)
limiting the size and activities of systemically significant financial companies.

The DFA requires the FRB to impose
enhanced capital and risk-management standards on these firms and mandates the FRB to conduct annual stress tests on all BHCs with $50 billion or more in assets to determine whether they have adequate capital available to absorb losses in baseline,
adverse, or severely adverse economic conditions. In November 2011, the FRB adopted final

rules requiring BHCs with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets to submit capital plans to the FRB on an annual basis. Under the final rules, the FRB annually will evaluate an
institution’s capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy, assessment processes and capital distribution plans such as dividend payments and stock repurchases. Banks are also required to report certain data to the FRB on a quarterly basis to
allow the FRB to monitor progress against the approved capital plans.

The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that
BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company’s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. The 2015 CCAR required BHCs with consolidated assets
of $50 billion or more to submit a capital plan to the FRB by January 5, 2015. The mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital over a nine-quarter planning horizon, a description of all
planned capital actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the Bancorp’s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the Bancorp’s
process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp’s capital policy. The stress tests require increased involvement by boards of directors in stress testing and public disclosure of the results of both the FRB’s annual stress tests and
a BHC’s annual supervisory stress tests, and semi-annual internal stress tests. The Bancorp submitted its capital plan, along with all supporting materials, to the FRB on January 5, 2015. The FRB will release the results of the supervisory
stress tests on March 5, 2015 and the related results from the 2015 CCAR on March 11, 2015.

de minimis

In December of 2010 and revised in June of 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel
Committee”) issued Basel III, a global regulatory framework, to enhance international capital standards. Basel III is designed to materially improve the quality of regulatory capital and introduces a new minimum common equity requirement. Basel
III also raises the minimum capital requirements and introduces capital





177  Fifth
Third Bancorp




conservation and countercyclical buffers to induce banking organizations to hold capital in excess of regulatory minimums. In addition, Basel III establishes an international leverage standard
for internationally active banks.

In July of 2013, U.S. banking regulators approved the final enhanced regulatory
capital rules (“Final Capital Rules”), which included modifications to the proposed rules. The Final Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to BHCs and their depository institution subsidiaries as
compared to the previous U.S. risk-based capital and leverage ratio rules, and thereby implement certain provisions of the DFA.

The Final Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a new capital measure “Common Equity Tier I”
(“CET1”), (ii) specify that Tier I capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier I capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital
measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations. CET1 capital consists of common stock instruments that meet the eligibility criteria in the
final rules, including; common stock and related surplus, net of treasury stock and retained earnings, certain minority interests and accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), if elected.

When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the Final Capital Rules require banking organizations to maintain (i) a
minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted
assets of at least 7.0% upon full implementation), (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier I capital ratio as that buffer is
phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier I capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation), (iii) a minimum ratio of total capital (that is, Tier I plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital
conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation) and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%, calculated as
the ratio of Tier I capital to adjusted average consolidated assets.

Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to
risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer will face limitations on the payment of dividends, common stock repurchases and discretionary cash payments to executive officers based on the amount of the shortfall.

The Final Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the
requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of
CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Under current capital standards, the effects of AOCI items included in capital are excluded for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. Under the Final Capital Rules,
Bancorp has a one-time election (the “Opt-out Election”) to filter certain AOCI components, comparable to the treatment under the current general risk-based capital rule.

The Final Capital Rules were effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain of
their components and other provisions. Although not currently required, Fifth Third Bancorp believes the aforementioned capital

ratios under the revised Final Capital Rules meet or exceed the ratios on a fully phased in basis. Refer to the Non-GAAP section of MD&A for an estimate of the Basel III CET1 ratio as of
December 31, 2014.

In February 2014, the FRB approved a final rule implementing several heightened prudential
requirements. Beginning in 2015, the rules require BHCs with $10 billion or more in consolidated assets to establish risk committees and require BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall
risk management standards, including company-run liquidity stress testing and a buffer of highly liquid assets based on projected funding needs for various time horizons, including 30, 60, and 90 days. These liquidity-related provisions are designed
to be complementary, and in addition to the Final LCR Rule applicable to BHCs (as discussed below). Rules to implement two other components of the DFA’s enhanced prudential standards –single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation
requirements– are still under consideration by the FRB. Fifth Third has conducted a self evaluation of all the requirements within the enhanced prudential standards, and believe the necessary steps have been taken to ensure compliance with all
requirements regarding liquidity, risk exposures, and early remediation.

Liquidity Regulation

The initial compliance date for the modified LCR will be January 2016, with the requirement fully phased-in by January 2017.
The LCR is a minimum requirement, and the FRB can impose additional liquidity requirements as a supervisory matter.





178  Fifth Third Bancorp




In addition, the Bancorp is also subject to the liquidity-related requirements of the enhanced prudential supervision rules adopted by the FRB under Section 165 of the DFA, as described
above. As of December 31, 2014 the Bancorp’s internally calculated LCR would have complied with the fully phased in LCR requirements which will become effective in 2016 as outlined in the final rule.In addition to the LCR, the Basel III framework also included a second standard, referred to as the net stable funding ratio
(“NSFR”), which is designed to promote more medium-and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. Although the Basel Committee finalized its formulation of the NSFR in 2014, the U.S. banking
agencies have not yet proposed an NSFR for application to U.S. banking organizations or addressed the scope of banking organizations to which it will apply. The Basel Committee’s final NSFR document states that the NSFR applies to
internationally active banks, as did its final LCR document as to that ratio.







179  Fifth
Third Bancorp




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Bancorp’s executive offices and the main office of Fifth Third Bank are located on Fountain Square Plaza in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio
in a 32-story office tower, a five-story office building with an attached parking garage and a separate ten-story office building known as the Fifth Third Center, the William S. Rowe Building and the 530 Building, respectively. The Bancorp’s
main operations center is located in Cincinnati, Ohio, in a three-story building with an attached parking garage known as the Madisonville Operations Center. The Bank owns 100% of these buildings.

At December 31, 2014, the Bancorp, through its banking and non-banking subsidiaries, operated 1,302 banking centers, of
which 931 were owned, 259 were leased and 112 for which the buildings are owned but the land is leased. The banking centers are located in the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, North Carolina, West Virginia,
Pennsylvania, Missouri, and Georgia. The Bancorp’s significant owned properties are owned free from mortgages and major encumbrances.

EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP

Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the meeting of Directors immediately following the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The names, ages and positions of the Executive Officers of the Bancorp as of February 25, are listed below along with their business experience during the past 5 years:

Kevin T. Kabat, 58. Vice Chairman of the Bancorp since September 2012 and Chief Executive Officer of the Bancorp since April 2007.
Previously, Mr. Kabat was President of the Bancorp from June 2006 to September 2012 and Chairman from June 2008 to June 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Kabat was Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since December 2003.

Chad M. Borton, 44. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since April 2014. Previously, Mr. Borton was Head of Retail Banking for
Fifth Third Bank from July 2012 to April 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Borton served in multiple positions at JP Morgan Chase including the Head of Branch Administration from August 2011 to July 2012; Senior Vice President and Market Manager from
August 2010 to August 2011; Head of Retail Distribution from 2008 to 2010 and Consumer Bank Chief Financial Officer from 2006 to 2008.

Greg D. Carmichael, 53. President of the Bancorp since September 2012 and Chief Operating Officer of the Bancorp since June 2006.
Previously, Mr. Carmichael was the Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Bancorp since June 2003.

Frank R.
Forrest, 60. Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Bancorp since April 2014. Previously, Mr. Forrest was Executive Vice President and Chief Risk and Credit Officer of the Bancorp since September 2013. Prior to that,
Mr. Forrest served with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. From March 2012 until June 2013, Mr. Forrest served as Managing Director and Quality Control Executive for Legacy Asset Services, a division of Bank of America. From September 2008
until March 2012, Mr. Forrest was Managing Director and Global Debt Products Executive for Global Corporate and Investment Banking. Formerly from January 2007 to September 2008, Mr. Forrest was Risk Management Executive for Commercial
Banking.

Mark D. Hazel, 49. Senior Vice President and Controller of the Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hazel
was the Assistant Bancorp Controller since 2006 and was the Controller of Nonbank entities since 2003.

Gregory L. Kosch, 55.
Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since June 2005. Previously, Mr. Kosch was Senior Vice President

and head of the Bancorp’s Commercial Division in the Chicago affiliate since June 2002.

James C. Leonard, 45. Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously, Mr. Leonard was the
Director of Business Planning and Analysis since 2006 and was the Chief Financial Officer of the Commercial Banking Division since 2001.

Philip R. McHugh, 50, Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since December 2014. Previously, Mr. McHugh was Executive Vice
President of Fifth Third Bank since June 2011 and was Senior Vice President of Fifth Third Bank from June 2010 through June 2011. Prior to that, Mr. McHugh was the President and CEO of the Louisville Affiliate of Fifth Third Bank from
January 2005 through June 2010.

Daniel T. Poston, 56. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since June 2003, and Chief Strategy
and Administrative Officer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously, Mr. Poston was the Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp from September 2009 to October 2013. Previously, Mr. Poston was the Controller of the Bancorp from July
2007 to May 2008 and from November 2008 to September 2009. Previously, Mr. Poston was the Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp from May 2008 to November 2008. Formerly, Mr. Poston was the Auditor of the Bancorp since October 2001 and was
Senior Vice President of the Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank since January 2002.

Joseph R. Robinson, 47. Executive Vice President and
Chief Information Officer and Director of Information Technology and Operations of the Bancorp since September 2009. Previously, Mr. Robinson was Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Bancorp since April 2008. Prior to
that, he was Senior Vice President and Director of Central Operations since November 2006 and Senior Vice President of IT Enterprise Solutions since March 2004.

Robert A. Sullivan, 60. Senior Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since December 2002.

Teresa J. Tanner, 46. Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010. Previously,
Ms. Tanner was Senior Vice President and Director of Enterprise Learning since September 2008. Prior to that, she was Human Resources Senior Vice President and Senior Business Partner for the Information Technology and Central Operations
divisions since July 2006. Previously, she was Vice President and Senior Business Partner for Operations since September 2004.

Mary E.
Tuuk, 50. Executive Vice President of Corporate Services & Board Secretary of the Bancorp since July 2013. Previously, Ms. Tuuk served as Affiliate President of Fifth Third Bank (Western Michigan) from November 2011 to June 2013.
Prior to that, Ms. Tuuk was the Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Bancorp from June 2007 to October 2011 and from July 2013 through September 2013. Ms. Tuuk was Senior Vice President of Fifth Third Bancorp since 2003.

Tayfun Tuzun, 50. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously,
Mr. Tuzun was the Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Bancorp from December 2011 to October 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Tuzun was the Assistant Treasurer and Balance Sheet Manager of Fifth Third Bancorp. Previously, Mr. Tuzun was
the Structured Finance Manager since 2007.





180  Fifth Third Bancorp




PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The Bancorp’s common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market and is listed under the symbol “FITB” on the NASDAQ® Global Select
Market System.



High and Low Stock Prices and Dividends Paid Per Share2014HighLowDividends PaidPer ShareFourth Quarter$20.82$17.65$0.13Third Quarter$21.79$19.45$0.13Second Quarter$23.41$19.82$0.13First Quarter$23.90$20.37$0.122013HighLowDividends PaidPer ShareFourth Quarter$21.14$17.49$0.12Third Quarter$19.79$17.80$0.12Second Quarter$18.74$15.62$0.12First Quarter$16.77$15.19$0.11

See a discussion of dividend limitations that the subsidiaries can pay to the Bancorp discussed in Note 3 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 31, 2014, the Bancorp had 46,876 shareholders of record.



Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPeriodSharesPurchased(a)Average PricePaid PerShareSharesPurchased asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orProgramsMaximumShares thatMay BePurchasedUnder thePlans orProgramsOctober 201410,234,560$18.1510,234,56073,180,368November 2014---73,180,368December 2014---73,180,368Total10,234,560$18.1510,234,56073,180,368

(a)The Bancorp repurchased 117,961, 34,182 and 46,119 shares during October, November and December of 2014 in connection with various employee compensation plans of the Bancorp. These purchases are not included against
the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the Board of Directors authorization.

See further
discussion of stock-based compensation in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



181  Fifth
Third Bancorp




The following performance graphs do not constitute soliciting material and should not be
deemed filed or incorporated by reference into any other Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Bancorp specifically incorporates the performance graphs by reference therein.

Total Return Analysis

The graphs below summarize the cumulative return experienced by the Bancorp’s shareholders over the years 2009 through 2014, and 2004
through 2014, respectively, compared to the S&P 500 Stock and the S&P Banks indices.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP VS. MARKET INDICES







182  Fifth Third Bancorp




PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item relating to the Executive Officers of the Registrant is included in PART I under “EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP.”

The information required by this item concerning Directors and the nomination process is
incorporated herein by reference under the caption “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning the Audit Committee and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is incorporated
herein by reference under the captions “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is
incorporated herein by reference under the caption “SECTION 16 (a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the captions “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS,”
“COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT” and “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Security ownership information of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated herein by reference under the captions
“CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS,” “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS” and “COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2015
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning Equity Compensation Plan information
is included in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the captions
“CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS”, “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS”, “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the caption “PRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL AUDIT FIRM
FEES” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

PagesPublic Accounting Firm84Fifth Third Bancorp and Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements85-89Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements90-170

The schedules for the Bancorp and its subsidiaries are omitted because of the absence of conditions under
which they are required, or because the information is set forth in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.

The following lists the
Exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.





2.1Master Investment Agreement (excluding exhibits and schedules) dated as of March 27, 2009 and amended as of June 30, 2009, among Fifth Third Bank,
Fifth Third Financial Corporation, Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., FTPS Holding, LLC and Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2,
2009.

3.1Amended Articles of Incorporation of Fifth Third Bancorp, as amended. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2014.

3.2Code of Regulations of Fifth Third Bancorp, as Amended as of September 15, 2014. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on September 17, 2014.

4.1Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Debenture Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.2Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2003, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.3Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 4.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.4First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 20, 2006, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.5Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 5.45% Subordinated Notes due 2017. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.6Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $250,000,000 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes due 2016. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.7First Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the Junior Subordinated
Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2007.

4.8Global security dated as of March 4, 2008 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 2038. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. (1)

4.9Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee. Incorporated by reference
to Registrant’s Current Report on





183  Fifth
Third Bancorp






Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.10Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 25, 2011 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third and the Trustee.
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 25, 2011.

4.11Global Security dated as of January 25, 2011 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 3.625% Senior Notes due 2016. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on January 25, 2011. (2)

4.12Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 7, 2012 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third and
the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2012.

4.13Global Security dated as of March 7, 2012 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2012.

4.14Deposit Agreement dated May 16, 2013, between Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and calculation agent,
American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.15Form of Certificate Representing the 5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.16Form of Depositary Receipt for the 5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.17Global Security dated as of November 20, 2013 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 4.30% Subordinated Notes due 2024. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 20, 2013.

4.18Deposit Agreement dated December 9, 2013, between Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and calculation agent,
American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.19Form of Certificate Representing the 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.20Form of Depositary Receipt for the 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.21Deposit Agreement dated June 5, 2014, among Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and calculation agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as transfer agent and
registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5,
2014.

4.22Form of Certificate Representing the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s



Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.23Form of Depositary Receipt for the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.24Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 28, 2014 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and
the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on February 28, 2014.

4.25Global Security dated as of February 28, 2014, representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 in principal amount of its 2.30% Senior Notes due 2019. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on February 28, 2014.

4.26Deposit Agreement dated June 5, 2014, among Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and calculation agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as transfer agent and
registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5,
2014.

4.27Form of Certificate Representing the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.28Form of Depositary Receipt for the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

10.1Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2013. *

10.2Indenture effective November 19, 1992 between Fifth Third Bancorp, Issuer and NBD Bank, N.A., Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 1992 and as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 33-54134.

10.3Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.4First Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.5Second Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Registrant’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.*

10.6Third Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.7Fifth Third Bancorp 401(k) Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated.*

10.8The Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated.*

10.9Fifth Third Bancorp Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated February 19, 2004.*

10.10Fifth Third Bancorp 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated March 6, 2008.*

10.11Fifth Third Bancorp 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated March 6, 2014.*

10.12Amended and Restated Fifth Third Bancorp 1993 Stock Purchase Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2011.*

10.13Fifth Third Bancorp Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s





184  Fifth Third Bancorp






Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.*

10.14Amendment to the Fifth Third Bancorp Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated.*

10.15Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated February 9, 2001.*

10.16Amendment No. 1 to Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on May 26, 2006. *

10.17Amended and Restated First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc. 2003 Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to First National Bankshares of Florida,
Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. *

10.18Fifth Third Bancorp Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, effective January 1, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 21, 2014.*

10.19Form of Executive Agreement effective February 3, 2014, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Tayfun Tuzun. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2014.*

10.20Form of Executive Agreement effective February 3, 2014, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Frank R. Forrest. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 7, 2014.*

10.21Executive Agreement effective August 19, 2014, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Chad M. Borton. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2014.*

10.22Form of Amended Executive Agreement effective January 19, 2012, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Daniel T. Poston. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 24, 2012. *

10.23Warrant dated June 30, 2009 issued by Vantiv Holding, LLC to Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed
with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.24Second Amended & Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (excluding certain exhibits) dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Fifth
Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, Vantiv Holding, LLC and each person who becomes a member after March 21, 2012. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.25Amendment and Restatement Agreement and Reaffirmation (excluding certain schedules) dated as of June 30, 2009 among Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC,
FTPS Holding, LLC, Card Management Company, LLC, Fifth Third Holdings, LLC and Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.26Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and certain
stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.27Exchange Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC and such other holders of
Class B Units and Class C Non-Voting Units that are from time to time parties of the Exchange Agreement. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.28Recapitalization Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN
Enterprises, LLC and certain stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.29Description of Vantiv, Inc. Director Compensation for Greg D. Carmichael. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. On May 10, 2012, Daniel T. Poston was elected as a Class B Director of Vantiv, Inc. Mr. Poston is subject to a substantially similar compensation arrangement as described in Exhibit 10.8
of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.*



10.30Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2013.*

10.31Performance Share Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
30, 2013.*

10.32Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.33Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.34Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement.*

10.35Performance Share Award Agreement.*

10.36Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (for Directors).*

10.37Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Executive Officers).*

10.38Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated October 20, 2014 between Fifth Third
Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch**

12.1Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

12.2Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.

21Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2014.

23Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-Deloitte & Touche LLP.

31(i)Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer.

31(ii)Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial Officer.

32(i)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer.

32(ii)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial Officer.

101Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements tagged as blocks of text and in
detail.



(1)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on March 4, 2008 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 2038.

(2)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on January 25, 2011 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 3.625% Senior Notes due 2016.

*    Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

**  An application for confidential treatment for selected portions of this exhibit has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.





185  Fifth
Third Bancorp




SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.FIFTH THIRD BANCORPRegistrant/s/ Kevin T. KabatKevin T. KabatVice Chairman and CEOPrincipal Executive OfficerFebruary 25, 2015Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed on
February 25, 2015 by the  following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated.OFFICERS:/s/ Kevin T. KabatKevin T. KabatVice Chairman and CEOPrincipal Executive Officer/s/ Tayfun TuzunTayfun TuzunExecutive Vice President and CFOPrincipal Financial Officer/s/ Mark D. HazelMark D. HazelSenior Vice President and ControllerPrincipal Accounting Officer

DIRECTORS:/s/ James P. HackettJames P. HackettChairman/s/ Marsha C. WilliamsMarsha C. WilliamsLead Director/s/ Nicholas K. AkinsNicholas K. Akins/s/ B. Evan Bayh IIIB. Evan Bayh III/s/ Katherine B. BlackburnKatherine B. Blackburn/s/ Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr./s/ Emerson L. BrumbackEmerson L. Brumback/s/ Gary R. HemingerGary R. Heminger/s/ Jewell D. HooverJewell D. Hoover/s/ Kevin T. KabatKevin T. Kabat/s/ Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D.Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D./s/ Michael B. McCallisterMichael B. McCallister/s/ Hendrik G. MeijerHendrik G. Meijer





186  Fifth Third Bancorp




CONSOLIDATED TEN YEAR COMPARISON



AVERAGE ASSETS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS)Interest-Earning AssetsYearLoans andLeasesFederal FundsSold(a)Interest-BearingDeposits inBanks(a)SecuritiesTotalCash and Duefrom BanksOtherAssetsTotal AverageAssets2014$91,127-3,04321,823$115,9932,89214,539$131,943201389,09312,41616,444107,9542,48215,053123,732201284,82221,49315,319101,6362,35515,695117,614201180,21412,03015,43797,6822,35215,335112,666201079,232113,31716,37198,9312,24514,841112,434200983,391121,02317,100101,5262,32914,266114,856200885,83543818313,42499,8802,49013,411114,296200778,34825714711,63090,3822,27510,613102,477200673,49325214420,91094,7992,4778,713105,238200567,7378811324,80692,7442,7508,102102,876



AVERAGE DEPOSITS AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS)DepositsYearDemandInterestCheckingSavingsMoneyMarketOtherTimeCertificates$100,000 andOverForeignOfficeTotalShort-TermBorrowingsTotal2014$31,75525,38216,08014,6703,7623,9291,828$97,4062,331$99,737201329,92523,58218,4409,4673,7606,3391,51893,0313,52796,558201227,19623,09621,3934,9034,3063,1021,55585,5514,80690,357201123,38918,70721,6525,1546,2603,6563,49782,3153,12285,437201019,66918,21819,6124,80810,5266,0833,36182,2771,92684,203200916,86215,07016,8754,32014,10310,3672,26579,8626,98086,842200814,01714,19116,1926,12711,1359,5314,22075,41310,76086,173200713,26114,82014,8366,30810,7786,4663,15569,6246,89076,514200613,74116,65012,1896,36610,5005,7953,71168,9528,67077,622200513,86818,88410,0075,1708,4914,0013,96764,3889,51173,899



INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)Per Share(b)Originally ReportedYearInterestIncomeInterestExpenseNoninterestIncomeNoninterestExpenseNet Income (Loss)Available toCommonShareholdersEarningsDilutedEarningsDividendsDeclaredEarningsDilutedEarnings2014$4,0304512,4733,7091,4141.681.660.511.68$1.6620133,9734123,2273,9611,7992.052.020.472.052.0220124,1075122,9994,0811,5411.691.660.361.691.6620114,2186612,4553,7581,0941.201.180.281.201.1820104,4898852,7293,8555030.630.630.040.630.6320094,6681,3144,7823,8265110.730.670.040.730.6720085,6082,0942,9464,564(2,180)(3.91)(3.91)0.75(3.94)(3.94)20076,0273,0182,4673,3111,0751.991.981.702.001.9920065,9553,0822,0122,9151,1882.132.121.582.142.1320054,9952,0302,3742,8011,5482.792.771.462.792.77





MISCELLANEOUS AT DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)Bancorp Shareholders’ EquityYearCommonSharesOutstandingCommonStockPreferredStockCapitalSurplusRetainedEarningsAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeTreasuryStockTotalBook ValuePer ShareAllowance forLoan andLease Losses2014824,046,952$2,0511,3312,64611,141429(1,972)$15,62617.35$1,3222013855,305,7452,0511,0342,56110,15682(1,295)14,58915.851,5822012882,152,0572,0513982,7588,768375(634)13,71615.101,8542011919,804,4362,0513982,7927,554470(64)13,20113.922,2552010796,272,5221,7793,6541,7156,719314(130)14,05113.063,0042009795,068,1641,7793,6091,7436,326241(201)13,49712.443,7492008577,386,6121,2954,2418485,82498(229)12,07713.572,7872007532,671,9251,29591,7798,413(126)(2,209)9,16117.189372006556,252,6741,29591,8128,317(179)(1,232)10,02218.007712005555,623,4301,29591,8278,007(413)(1,279)9,44616.98744

(a)Federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in banks are combined in other short-term investments in the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)Adjusted for accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share, which was adopted retroactively on January 1, 2009.



187  Fifth
Third Bancorp




DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS



FIFTH THIRD BANCORPDIRECTORSJames P. Hackett, ChairmanVice Chair, Board ofDirectorsSteelcase, Inc.Marsha C. Williams, LeadDirectorRetired Senior Vice President&Chief Financial OfficerOrbitz Worldwide, Inc.Nicholas K. AkinsPresident & CEOAmerican Electric PowerCompanyB. Evan Bayh IIIPartnerMcGuireWoods LLPKatherine B. BlackburnExecutive Vice PresidentCincinnati BengalsUlysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.PresidentB.F. CompaniesEmerson L. BrumbackRetired President & COOM&T BankGary R. HemingerPresident, CEO & DirectorMarathon PetroleumCorporationJewell D. HooverPrincipal & Bank ConsultantHoover and
Associates, LLCKevin T. KabatVice
Chairman & CEOFifth Third BancorpMitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D.Retired Vice President forStudent Affairs& Chief Diversity OfficerUniversity of Cincinnati

Michael B. McCallisterRetired Chairman & CEOHumana Inc.Hendrik G. MeijerCo-Chairman, Director& CEOMeijer, Inc.DIRECTORS EMERITIDarryl F. AllenJohn F. BarrettJ. Kenneth BlackwellMilton C. Boesel, Jr.Douglas G. CowanThomas L. DahlRonald A. DauweGerald V. DirvinThomas B. DonnellRichard T. FarmerJohn D. GearyIvan W. GorrJoseph H. Head, Jr.Allen M. HillWilliam M. IsaacWilliam J. KeatingJerry L. KirbyRobert L. Koch IIKenneth W. LoweRobert B. MorganMichael H. NorrisDavid E. ReeseJames E. RogersGeorge A. Schaefer, Jr.John J. Schiff, Jr.Donald B. ShackelfordDavid B. SharrockStephen StranahanDudley S. TaftAlton C. WendzelFIFTH THIRD BANCORPOFFICERSKevin T. KabatVice Chairman & CEOGreg D. CarmichaelPresident &Chief Operating OfficerChad M. BortonExecutive Vice President

Frank R. ForrestExecutive Vice President &Chief Risk OfficerMark D. HazelSenior Vice President &ControllerGregory L. KoschExecutive Vice PresidentJames C. LeonardSenior Vice President &TreasurerPhilip R. McHughExecutive Vice PresidentDaniel T. PostonExecutive Vice President &Chief Strategy andAdministrative OfficerJoseph R. RobinsonExecutive Vice President &Chief Information OfficerRobert A. SullivanSenior Executive VicePresidentTeresa J. TannerExecutive Vice President &Chief Human ResourcesOfficerMary E. TuukExecutive Vice President ofCorporate Services &Board SecretaryTayfun TuzunExecutive Vice President &Chief Financial OfficerAFFILIATE PRESIDENTSDonald Abel, Jr.Steven AlonsoDavid A. CallHal ClemmerDavid GirodatShawn HaganThomas Heiks

Jerry KelsheimerRobert W. LaClairBrian LambRalph S. Michael IIIJordan A. Miller, Jr.Thomas PartridgeRobert A. SullivanThomas G. Welch, Jr.FIFTH THIRD BANCORPBOARD COMMITTEESFinance CommitteeGary R. Heminger, ChairEmerson L. BrumbackJames P. HackettKevin T. KabatMarsha C. WilliamsAudit CommitteeEmerson L. Brumback, ChairNicholas K. AkinsJewell D. HooverMichael B. McCallisterHuman Capital andCompensation CommitteeMarsha C. Williams, ChairNicholas K. AkinsGary R. HemingerMitchel D. Livingston, Ph. D.Hendrik G. MeijerNominating and CorporateGovernance CommitteeUlysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.,ChairB. Evan Bayh IIIGary R. HemingerHendrik G. MeijerRisk and ComplianceCommitteeJewell D. Hoover, ChairB. Evan Bayh IIIMitchel D. Livingston, Ph. D.Hendrik G. MeijerMarsha C. Williams





188  Fifth Third Bancorp

