ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General
Information

Fifth Third Bancorp (the “Bancorp”), an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is a bank holding company
(“BHC”) as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”), and is registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”). The Bancorp’s principal office
is located in Cincinnati, Ohio.

The Bancorp’s subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial products and services
to the retail, commercial, financial, governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide variety of checking, savings and money market accounts, and credit products such as credit cards, installment loans, mortgage loans and leases.
Fifth Third Bank has deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) through the Deposit Insurance Fund. Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as an attachment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of
subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of December 31, 2015.

The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the
U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Additional information regarding the Bancorp’s businesses is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Availability of Financial Information

The Bancorp files reports with the SEC. Those reports include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K and proxy statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. The public may read and copy any materials the Bancorp files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public
may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The Bancorp’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act are accessible at no cost on the Bancorp’s web site at https://www.53.com on a same day basis after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Competition

The Bancorp competes for
deposits, loans and other banking services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to the challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, the
Bancorp’s competitors include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and insurance companies. These competitors, with focused products targeted at highly profitable customer segments, compete across geographic
boundaries and provide customers increasing access to meaningful alternatives to banking services in nearly all significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology,

product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. These competitive trends are likely to continue.

Acquisitions

The Bancorp’s
strategy for growth includes strengthening its presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and broadening its product offerings while taking into account the integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates strategic
acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities in connection with possible transactions. As a result, discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may
occur. These typically involve the payment of a premium over book value and current market price, and therefore, some dilution of book value and net income per share may occur with any future transactions.

Regulation and Supervision





172  Fifth Third Bancorp




other revisions; (x) changing the base upon which the deposit insurance assessment is assessed from deposits to, substantially, average consolidated assets minus equity; and (xi) amending
the Truth in Lending Act with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations. To the extent the following material describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is
qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statute or regulation. In addition, due to the volume of regulations required by the DFA, not all proposed or final regulations that may have an impact on the Bancorp or its banking subsidiary
are necessarily discussed.

Regulators

The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are subject to regulation and supervision primarily by the FRB, the CFPB and the Ohio Division of
Financial Institutions (the “Division”) and additionally by certain other functional regulators and self-regulatory organizations. The Bancorp is also subject to regulation by the SEC by virtue of its status as a public company and due to
the nature of some of its businesses. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to regulation by the FDIC, which insures the bank’s deposits as permitted by law.

The federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable to banks and to BHCs regulate, among other matters, the scope
of their business, their activities, their investments, their capital and liquidity levels, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual and related borrowers and the nature,
the amount of and collateral for certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged on loans as applicable. Various federal and state consumer laws and regulations also affect the services provided to consumers.

The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are required to file various reports with, and is subject to examination by
regulators, including the FRB and the Division. The FRB, the Division and the CFPB have the authority to issue orders for BHCs and/or banks to cease and desist from certain banking practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of
agreements with, the FRB, the Division and the CFPB. Certain of the Bancorp’s and/or its banking subsidiary regulators are also empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or individuals in certain situations, such as when there
is a violation of a law or regulation. Applicable state and federal laws also grant certain regulators the authority to impose additional requirements and restrictions on the activities of the Bancorp and or its banking subsidiary and, in some
situations, the imposition of such additional requirements and restrictions will not be publicly available information.

Acquisitions

The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB for a BHC to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank or to acquire direct or indirect
ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any bank, BHC or savings association, or to increase any such non-majority ownership or control of any bank, BHC or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with any
BHC.

The BHCA prohibits a BHC from acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 5% of any class
of the voting shares of a company that is not a bank or a BHC and from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to its banking subsidiaries, except that it may
engage in and may own shares of companies engaged in certain activities the FRB

has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be proper incident thereto.

Financial Holding Companies

Dividends

The Bancorp depends in part
upon dividends received from its direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect banking subsidiary, to fund its activities, including the payment of dividends. The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to various federal and state
restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice
for BHCs to pay dividends unless a BHC’s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The
ability to pay dividends may be further limited by provisions of the DFA and implanting regulations (see Systematically Significant Companies and Capital).

Source of Strength

Under long-standing
FRB policy and now as codified in the DFA, a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its banking subsidiaries and to commit resources to their support. This support may be required at times when the
BHC may not have the resources to provide it.

FDIC Assessments

As contemplated by the DFA the FDIC has revised the framework by which insured depository institutions with more than $10 billion in assets
(“large IDIs”) are assessed for purposes of payments to the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). The final rule implementing revisions to the assessment system took effect for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011.

Prior to the passage of the DFA, a large IDI’s DIF premiums principally were based on the size of an IDI’s
domestic deposit base.





173  Fifth
Third Bancorp




The DFA changed the assessment base from a large IDI’s domestic deposit base to its total assets less tangible equity. In addition to potentially greatly increasing the size of a large
IDI’s assessment base, the expansion of the assessment base affords the FDIC much greater flexibility to vary its assessment system based upon the different asset classes that large IDIs normally hold on their balance sheets.

To implement this provision, the FDIC created an assessment scheme vastly different from the deposit-based system. Under the
new system, large IDIs are assessed under a complex “scorecard” methodology that seeks to capture both the probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs.

Transactions with Affiliates

Sections
23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restrict transactions between a bank and its affiliates (as defined in Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act), including a parent BHC. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to certain
restrictions, including but not limited to restrictions on loans to its affiliates, on investments in the stock or securities thereof, on the taking of such stock or securities as collateral for loans to any borrower, and on the issuance of a
guarantee or letter of credit on their behalf. Among other things, these restrictions limit the amount of such transactions, require collateral in prescribed amounts for extensions of credit, prohibit the purchase of low quality assets and require
that the terms of such transactions be substantially equivalent to terms of comparable transactions with non-affiliates. Generally, the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is limited in its extension of credit to any affiliate to 10% of the banking
subsidiary’s capital stock and surplus and its extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of the banking subsidiary’s capital stock and surplus.

Community Reinvestment Act

Capital Generally

The FRB has established capital guidelines for BHCs and FHCs. The FRB, the Division and the FDIC have also issued regulations establishing
capital requirements for banks. Failure to meet capital requirements could subject the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary to a variety of restrictions and enforcement actions. In addition, as discussed previously, the Bancorp and its banking
subsidiary must remain well capitalized and well managed for the Bancorp to retain its status as a FHC.

Systemically Significant Companies and
Capital

Title I of the DFA creates a new regulatory regime for large BHCs. U.S. BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated
assets, including Fifth Third, are subject to enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements under Title I. Title I of the DFA establishes a broad framework for identifying, applying heightened supervision and regulation to, and
(as necessary) limiting the size and activities of systemically significant financial companies.

The DFA requires the
FRB to impose enhanced capital and risk-management standards on these firms and mandates the FRB to conduct annual stress tests on all BHCs with $50 billion or more in assets to determine whether they have adequate capital available to absorb losses
in baseline, adverse, or severely adverse economic conditions. In November 2011, the FRB adopted final rules requiring BHCs with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets to submit capital plans to the FRB on an annual basis. Under the final rules,
the FRB annually will evaluate an institution’s capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy, assessment processes and capital distribution plans such as dividend payments and stock repurchases. Banks are also required to report certain data to
the FRB on a quarterly basis to allow the FRB to monitor progress against the approved capital plans.

The CCAR process
is intended to help ensure that BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company’s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. The mandatory elements
of the capital plan are an assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital over a nine-quarter planning horizon, a description of all planned capital actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the
Bancorp’s business plan that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the Bancorp’s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp’s capital policy. The stress tests
require increased involvement by boards of directors in stress testing and public disclosure of the results of both the FRB’s annual stress tests and a BHC’s annual supervisory stress tests, and semi-annual internal stress tests.

In 2014, the FRB amended its capital planning and stress testing rules to, among other things, generally limit a BHC’s
ability to make quarterly capital distributions – that is, dividends and share repurchases – commencing April 1, 2015 if the amount of the bank’s actual cumulative quarterly capital issuances of instruments that qualify as
regulatory capital are less than the bank had indicated in its submitted capital plan as to which it received a non-objection from the FRB. For example, if the BHC issued a smaller amount of additional common stock than it had stated in its capital
plan, it would be required to reduce common dividends and/or the amount of common stock repurchases so that the dollar amount of capital distributions, net of the dollar amount of additional common stock issued (“net distributions”), is no
greater than the dollar amount of net distributions relating to its common stock included in its capital plan, as measured on an aggregate basis beginning in the third quarter of the nine-quarter planning horizon through the end of the then current
quarter.





174  Fifth Third Bancorp




However, not raising sufficient amounts of common stock as planned would not affect distributions related to Additional Tier I Capital instruments and/ or Tier II Capital. These limitations also
contain several important qualifications and exceptions, including that scheduled dividend payments on (as opposed to repurchases of) a BHC’s Additional Tier I Capital and Tier II Capital instruments are not restricted if the BHC fails to issue
a sufficient amount of such instruments as planned, as well as provisions for certain de minimis excess distributions. The 2014 amendments also revised the due date for capital plan and stress testing submissions. BHCs with consolidated asset of $50
billion or more are required to submit their 2016 capital plan to the FRB by April 5, 2016.

In December of 2010 and
revised in June of 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) issued Basel III, a global regulatory framework, to enhance international capital standards. Basel III is designed to materially improve the
quality of regulatory capital and introduces a new minimum common equity requirement. Basel III also raises the minimum capital requirements and introduces capital conservation and countercyclical buffers to induce banking organizations to hold
capital in excess of regulatory minimums. In addition, Basel III establishes an international leverage standard for internationally active banks.

In July of 2013, U.S. banking regulators approved the final enhanced regulatory capital rules (“Final Capital
Rules”). The Final Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to BHCs and their depository institution subsidiaries as compared to the previous U.S. risk-based capital and leverage ratio rules, and thereby
implement certain provisions of the DFA.

The Final Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a new capital
measure “Common Equity Tier I” (“CET1”), (ii) specify that Tier I capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier I capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring
that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations. CET1 capital consists of common stock instruments
that meet the eligibility criteria in the final rules, including; common stock and related surplus, net of treasury stock and retained earnings, certain minority interests and accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), if elected.

When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the Final Capital Rules require banking organizations to maintain
(i) a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to
risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% upon full implementation), (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier I capital ratio as that
buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier I capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation), (iii) a minimum ratio of total capital (that is, Tier I plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the
capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation) and (iv) a

minimum Tier I leverage ratio of 4.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier I capital to adjusted average consolidated assets.

Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer will
face limitations on the payment of dividends, common stock repurchases and discretionary cash payments to executive officers based on the amount of the shortfall.

The Final Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the
requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of
CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Under the Final Capital Rules, the Bancorp made a one-time election (the “Opt-out Election”) to filter certain AOCI components, comparable to the treatment under the current
general risk-based capital rule.

The Final Capital Rules were effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2015,
subject to phase-in periods for certain of their components and other provisions. Although not currently required, Fifth Third Bancorp believes the aforementioned capital ratios under the revised Final Capital Rules meet or exceed the ratios on a
fully phased-in basis. Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A for an estimated CET1 capital ratio under the Basel III Final Rule (fully phased-in) as of December 31, 2015.

In February 2014, the FRB approved a final rule implementing several heightened prudential requirements. Beginning in 2015,
the rules require BHCs with $10 billion or more in consolidated assets to establish risk committees and require BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management standards,
including company-run liquidity stress testing and a buffer of highly liquid assets based on projected funding needs for various time horizons, including 30, 60, and 90 days. These liquidity-related provisions are designed to be complementary, and
in addition to the Final LCR Rule applicable to BHCs (as discussed below). Rules to implement two other components of the DFA’s enhanced prudential standards –single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements– are
still under consideration by the FRB. Fifth Third has conducted a self evaluation of all the requirements within the enhanced prudential standards, and believe the necessary steps have been taken to ensure compliance with all requirements regarding
liquidity, risk exposures, and early remediation.

Liquidity Regulation

Liquidity risk management and supervision have become increasingly important since the financial crisis. On September 3, 2014, the FRB
and other banking regulators adopted final rules (“Final LCR Rule”) implementing a U.S. version of the Basel Committee’s Liquidity Coverage Ratio requirement (“LCR”), which is designed to ensure that the banking entity
maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets (“HQLA”) equal to the entity’s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute
liquidity stress scenario. The rules apply in modified form to banking organizations, such as the Bancorp, having $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets but less than $250 billion. The LCR is the ratio of an institution’s stock of
HQLA (the numerator) over projected net cash out-flows over the 30-day horizon (the denominator), in each case, as calculated pursuant to the Final LCR Rule.





175  Fifth
Third Bancorp




Once fully phased-in, a subject institution must maintain an LCR equal to at least 100% in order to satisfy this regulatory requirement. Only specific classes of assets, including U.S.
Treasuries, other U.S. government obligations and agency mortgaged-backed securities, qualify under the rule as HQLA, with classes of assets deemed relatively less liquid and/or subject to greater degree of credit risk subject to certain haircuts
and caps for purposes of calculating the numerator under the Final LCR Rule. The total net cash outflows amount is determined under the rule by applying certain hypothetical outflow and inflow rates, which reflect certain standardized stressed
assumptions, against the balances of the banking organization’s funding sources, obligations, transactions and assets over the 30-day stress period. Inflows that can be included to offset outflows are limited to 75% of outflows (which
effectively means that banking organizations must hold high-quality liquid assets equal to 25% of outflows even if outflows perfectly match inflows over the stress period). The total net cash outflow amount for the modified LCR applicable to the
Bancorp is capped at 70% of the outflow rate that applies to the full LCR.

The initial compliance date for the modified
LCR was January 31, 2016, with the requirement fully phased-in by January 2017. The LCR is a minimum requirement, and the FRB can impose additional liquidity requirements as a supervisory matter.

In addition, the Bancorp is also subject to the liquidity-related requirements of the enhanced prudential supervision rules
adopted by the FRB under Section 165 of the DFA, as described above. As of December 31, 2015, the Bancorp’s estimated LCR complied with the fully phased-in LCR requirements which become effective in 2017 as outlined in the final rule.

In addition to the LCR, the Basel III framework also included a second standard, referred to as the net stable funding
ratio (“NSFR”), which is designed to promote more medium-and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. Although the Basel Committee finalized its formulation of the NSFR in 2014, the U.S. banking
agencies have not yet proposed an NSFR for application to U.S. banking organizations or addressed the scope of banking organizations to which it will apply. The Basel Committee’s final NSFR document states that the NSFR applies to
internationally active banks, as did its final LCR document as to that ratio.

Privacy

The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted final guidelines (the “Guidelines) for safeguarding confidential, personal
customer information. The Guidelines require each financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight of its Board of Directors or an appropriate committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written information
security program designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of
such information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. The Bancorp has adopted a customer information security program that has been approved by the Bancorp’s Board of Directors.

The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic personal
information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required

by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided in the banking subsidiary’s policies and procedures. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary has implemented a privacy policy.

Anti-Money Laundering

The Uniting
and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”), designed to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial
system, has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act, as implemented by various federal regulatory agencies, requires financial institutions,
including the Bancorp and its subsidiaries, to implement policies and procedures or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, among other matters, anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction
reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act and its underlying regulations also permit information sharing for counter-terrorist purposes between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial
institutions, subject to certain conditions, and require the FRB (and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering activities when considering applications filed under Section 3 of
the BHCA or the Bank Merger Act. The Bancorp’s Board has approved policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the Patriot Act.

Exempt Brokerage Activities

The GLBA
amended the federal securities laws to eliminate the blanket exceptions that banks traditionally have had from the definition of “broker” and “dealer.” The GLBA also required that there be certain transactional activities that
would not be “brokerage” activities, which banks could effect without having to register as a broker. In September 2007, the FRB and SEC approved Regulation R to govern bank securities activities. Various exemptions permit banks to conduct
activities that would otherwise constitute brokerage activities under the securities laws. Those exemptions include conducting brokerage activities related to trust, fiduciary and similar services, certain services and also conducting a de minimis
number of riskless principal transactions, certain asset-backed transactions and certain securities lending transactions. The Bancorp only conducts non-exempt brokerage activities through its affiliated registered broker-dealer.

Financial Stability Oversight Council

The DFA created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), which is chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury and composed
of expertise from various financial services regulators. The FSOC has responsibility for identifying risks and responding to emerging threats to financial stability. The Department of Treasury established an assessment schedule for the collection of
fees from BHCs and foreign banks with at least $50 billion in assets to cover the expenses of the Office of Financial Research and FSOC. The fees would also cover certain expenses incurred by the FDIC. The Bancorp paid approximately $1 million for
the assessment periods from October 1, 2014 through March 31, 2016.

The FRB also adopted a final rule to implement
an assessment provision under the DFA equal to the expense and the FRB estimates are necessary or appropriate to supervise and regulate BHCs with $50 billion or more in assets. The Bancorp paid approximately $3 million for the 2015 annual assessment
period under the FRB’s rule.





176  Fifth Third Bancorp




Executive Compensation

The DFA provides for a say on pay for shareholders of all public companies. Under the DFA, each company must give its shareholders the
opportunity to vote on the compensation of its executives at least once every three years. The DFA also adds disclosure and voting requirements for golden parachute compensation that is payable to named executive officers in connection with sale
transactions. The SEC adopted rules finalizing these say on pay provisions in January 2011.

Pursuant to the DFA, in
June 2012, the SEC adopted a final rule directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing classes of equity securities if a company’s compensation committee members are not independent. The rule also provides that a company’s compensation
committee may only select a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor after taking into consideration factors to be identified by the SEC that affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor.

The SEC is required under the DFA to issue rules obligating companies to disclose in proxy materials for annual meetings of
shareholders information that shows the relationship between executive compensation actually paid to their named executive officers and their financial performance, taking into account any change in the value of the shares of a company’s stock
and dividends or distributions. The DFA also requires the SEC to propose rules requiring companies to disclose the ratio of the compensation of its chief executive officer to the median compensation of its employees. The SEC adopted final rules
implementing the pay ratio provisions in August 2015. For a registrant with a fiscal year ending on December 31, such as Bancorp, the pay ratio will be required as part of its executive compensation disclosure in proxy statements or Form
10-Ks filed starting in 2018.

The DFA provides that the SEC must issue rules directing the stock exchanges to prohibit
listing any security of a company unless the company develops and implements a policy providing for disclosure of the policy of the company on incentive-based compensation that is based on financial information required to be reported under the
securities laws and that, in the event the company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the company with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the company will recover from
any current or former executive officer of the company who received incentive-based compensation during the three-year period preceding the date on which the company is required to prepare the restatement based on the erroneous data, any exceptional
compensation above what would have been paid under the restatement.

The DFA requires the SEC to adopt a rule to require
that each company disclose in the proxy materials for its annual meetings whether an employee or board member is permitted to purchase financial instruments designed to hedge or offset decreases in the market value of equity securities granted as
compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board member.

Corporate Governance

The DFA clarifies that the SEC may, but is not required to promulgate rules that would require that a company’s proxy

materials include a nominee for the board of directors submitted by a shareholder. Although the SEC promulgated rules to accomplish this, these rules were invalidated by a federal appeals court
decision. The SEC has said that they will not challenge the ruling, but has not ruled out the possibility that new rules could be proposed.

The DFA requires stock exchanges to have rules prohibiting their members from voting securities that they do not
beneficially own (unless they have received voting instructions from the beneficial owner) with respect to the election of a member of the board of directors (other than an uncontested election of directors of an investment company registered under
the Investment Company Act of 1940), executive compensation or any other significant matter, as determined by the SEC by rule.

Debit Card Interchange
Fees

FDIC Matters and Resolution Planning

Title II of the DFA creates an orderly liquidation process that the FDIC can employ for failing systemically important financial companies.





177  Fifth
Third Bancorp




Additionally, the DFA also codifies many of the temporary changes that had already been implemented, such as permanently increasing the amount of deposit insurance to $250,000.

In January 2012, the FDIC issued a final rule that requires an insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in
total assets to submit periodic contingency plans to the FDIC for resolution in the event of the institution’s failure. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is subject to this rule and submitted its most recent resolution plan pursuant to this
rule as of December 31, 2015.

In October 2011, the FRB and FDIC issued a final rule implementing the resolution
planning requirements of Section 165(d) of the DFA. The final rule requires BHCs with assets of $50 billion or more and nonbank financial firms designated by FSOC for supervision by the FRB to annually submit resolution plans to the FDIC and
FRB. Each plan shall describe the company’s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy during times of financial distress. Under the final rule, companies must submit their initial resolution plans on a staggered basis. The Bancorp
submitted its most recent resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2015.

Proprietary Trading and Investing in Certain Funds

De minimis

DerivativesTitle VII of the DFA includes measures to broaden the scope of derivative instruments subject to regulation by requiring clearing and exchange
trading of certain derivatives, imposing new capital and margin requirements for certain market participants and imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter derivatives. Certain affiliates of the Bancorp that engage in significant swap
activities may be required to register with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the SEC as a swap dealer, security-based swap dealer, major swap participant or major security-based swap participant. As with the Volcker Rule, the Bancorp will
be required to demonstrate that it has a satisfactory compliance program to monitor the activities of any such entity registered under the new regulations. The ultimate impact of these derivatives regulations, and the time it will take to comply,
continues to remain uncertain. The final regulations will impose additional operational and compliance costs on us and may require us to restructure certain businesses and negatively impact our revenues and results of operations.





178  Fifth Third Bancorp




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Bancorp’s executive offices and the main office of Fifth Third Bank are located on Fountain Square Plaza in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio
in a 32-story office tower, a five-story office building with an attached parking garage and a separate ten-story office building known as the Fifth Third Center, the William S. Rowe Building and the 530 Building, respectively. The Bancorp’s
main operations center is located in Cincinnati, Ohio, in a three-story building with an attached parking garage known as the Madisonville Operations Center. The Bank owns 100% of these buildings.

At December 31, 2015, the Bancorp, through its banking and non-banking subsidiaries, operated 1,254 banking centers, of
which 902 were owned, 243 were leased and 109 for which the buildings are owned but the land is leased. The banking centers are located in the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, North Carolina, West Virginia,
Pennsylvania, Missouri, and Georgia. The Bancorp’s significant owned properties are owned free from mortgages and major encumbrances.

EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP

Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the meeting of Directors immediately following the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The names, ages and positions of the Executive Officers of the Bancorp as of February 25, are listed below along with their business experience during the past five years:

Greg D. Carmichael, 54. Chief Executive Officer of the Bancorp since November 2015 and President since September 2012. Previously, Mr.
Carmichael was Chief Operating Officer of the Bancorp from June 2006 to August 2015, Executive Vice President of the Bancorp from June 2006 to September 2012 and Chief Information Officer of the Bancorp from June 2003 to June 2006.

Lars C. Anderson, 55. Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Bancorp since August 2015. Previously,
Mr. Anderson was Vice Chairman of Comerica Incorporated and Comerica Bank since December 2010.

Chad M. Borton, 45. Executive
Vice President of the Bancorp since April 2014. Previously, Mr. Borton was Head of Retail Banking for Fifth Third Bank from July 2012 to April 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Borton served in multiple positions at JP Morgan Chase including the Head of
Branch Administration from August 2011 to July 2012; Senior Vice President and Market Manager from August 2010 to August 2011; Head of Retail Distribution from 2008 to 2010 and Consumer Bank Chief Financial Officer from 2006 to 2008.

Frank R. Forrest, 61. Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Bancorp since April 2014. Previously, Mr. Forrest was
Executive Vice President and Chief Risk and Credit Officer of the Bancorp since September 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Forrest served with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. From March 2012 until June 2013, Mr. Forrest served as Managing Director and
Quality Control Executive for Legacy Asset Services, a division of Bank of America. From September 2008 until March 2012, Mr. Forrest was Managing Director and Global Debt Products Executive for Global Corporate and Investment Banking. Formerly from
January 2007 to September 2008, Mr. Forrest was Risk Management Executive for Commercial Banking.

Mark D. Hazel, 50. Senior Vice
President and Controller of the Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hazel was the Assistant Bancorp Controller since 2006 and was the Controller of Nonbank entities since 2003.



Heather Russell Koenig, 44. Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate
Secretary of the Bancorp since September 2015. Previously, Ms. Koenig was Global Chief Regulatory Counsel and Head of the Office of Public Policy and Regulatory Affairs of Bank of New York Mellon since July 2011 and Associate General Counsel at
Bank of America from October 2006 through June 2011.

Randolph J. Koporc,49. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since
October 2010. Previously, Mr. Koporc was President and Chief Executive Officer of Fifth Third Bank (Georgia) from October 2010 to March 2014.

Gregory L. Kosch, 56. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since June 2005. Previously, Mr. Kosch was Senior Vice President and
head of the Bancorp’s Commercial Division in the Chicago affiliate since June 2002.

James C. Leonard, 46.Executive
Vice President since September 2015 and Treasurer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously, Mr. Leonard was Senior Vice President from October 2013 to September 2015, the Director of Business Planning and Analysis from 2006 to 2013 and the
Chief Financial Officer of the Commercial Banking Division from 2001 to 2013.

Philip R. McHugh, 51. Executive Vice President of the
Bancorp since December 2014. Previously, Mr. McHugh was Executive Vice President of Fifth Third Bank since June 2011 and was Senior Vice President of Fifth Third Bank from June 2010 through June 2011. Prior to that, Mr. McHugh was the
President and CEO of the Louisville Affiliate of Fifth Third Bank from January 2005 through June 2010.

Joseph R. Robinson, 48.
Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer and Director of Information Technology and Operations of the Bancorp since September 2009. Previously, Mr. Robinson was Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Bancorp
since April 2008. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and Director of Central Operations since November 2006 and Senior Vice President of IT Enterprise Solutions since March 2004.

Timothy N. Spence, 37. Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of the Bancorp since September 2015. Previously,
Mr. Spence was a senior partner in the Financial Services practice at Oliver Wyman, a global strategy and risk management consulting firm.

Teresa J. Tanner, 47. Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since September 2015. Previously, Ms. Tanner was the
Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010 and Senior Vice President and Director of Enterprise Learning since September 2008. Prior to that, she was Human Resources Senior Vice President and Senior
Business Partner for the Information Technology and Central Operations divisions since July 2006. Previously, she was Vice President and Senior Business Partner for Operations since September 2004.

Tayfun Tuzun, 51. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously, Mr. Tuzun was the
Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Bancorp from December 2011 to October 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Tuzun was the Assistant Treasurer and Balance Sheet Manager of Fifth Third Bancorp. Previously, Mr. Tuzun was the Structured Finance Manager
since 2007.





179  Fifth
Third Bancorp




PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The Bancorp’s common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market and is listed under the symbol “FITB” on the NASDAQ®
Global Select Market System.



High and Low Stock Prices and Dividends Paid Per Share2015HighLowDividends PaidPer ShareFourth Quarter$21.14$18.15$0.13Third Quarter$21.93$18.21$0.13Second Quarter$21.90$18.63$0.13First Quarter$20.53$17.14$0.132014HighLowDividends PaidPer ShareFourth Quarter$20.82$17.65$0.13Third Quarter$21.79$19.45$0.13Second Quarter$23.41$19.82$0.13First Quarter$23.90$20.37$0.12

See a discussion of dividend limitations that the subsidiaries can pay to the Bancorp discussed in Note 3 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 31, 2015, the Bancorp had 44,678 shareholders of record.



Issuer Purchases of Equity SecuritiesPeriodTotal Numberof SharesPurchased(a)Average Price PaidPer ShareTotal Number of SharesPurchased as Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plans orProgramsMaximum Number ofShares that May Yet bePurchased Under the Plansor Programs(b)October 20151,525,580$18.791,446,61339,820,995November 201553,70119.31-39,820,995December 20159,286,35119.959,248,48230,572,513Total10,865,632$19.7810,695,09530,572,513

(a)The Bancorp repurchased 78,967, 53,701 and 37,869 shares during October, November and December of 2015, respectively, in connection with various
employee compensation plans of the Bancorp. These purchases do not count against the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the Board of Directors’ authorization.

(b)In March of 2014, the Bancorp announced that its Board of Directors had authorized management to purchase 100 million shares of the
Bancorp’s common stock through the open market or in any private party transactions. The authorization does not include specific price targets or an expiration date.

See further discussion on accelerated share repurchase transactions and stock-based compensation in Note 23 and Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.



180  Fifth Third Bancorp




The following performance graphs do not constitute soliciting material and should not be deemed filed or
incorporated by reference into any other Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Bancorp specifically incorporates the performance graphs by reference therein.

Total Return Analysis

The graphs below
summarize the cumulative return experienced by the Bancorp’s shareholders over the years 2009 through 2015, and 2004 through 2015, respectively, compared to the S&P 500 Stock and the S&P Banks indices.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP VS. MARKET INDICES







181  Fifth
Third Bancorp




PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this item relating to the Executive Officers of the Registrant is included in PART I under “EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP.”

The information required by this item concerning Directors and the nomination process is
incorporated herein by reference under the caption “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning the Audit Committee and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is incorporated
herein by reference under the captions “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning Section 16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is incorporated
herein by reference under the caption “SECTION 16 (a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the captions “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS,”
“COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT” and “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Security ownership information of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated herein by reference under the captions
“CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS,” “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS,” “COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS” and “COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2016
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

The information required by this item concerning Equity Compensation Plan information
is included in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the captions
“CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS”, “ELECTION OF DIRECTORS”, “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE” and “BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under the caption “PRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT

EXTERNAL AUDIT FIRM FEES” of the Bancorp’s Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES

Financial Statements FiledPagesReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm83Fifth Third Bancorp and Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements84-88Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements89-170

The schedules for the Bancorp and its subsidiaries are omitted because of the absence of conditions under
which they are required, or because the information is set forth in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.

The
following lists the Exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.



2.1Master Investment Agreement (excluding exhibits and schedules) dated as of March 27, 2009 and amended as of June 30, 2009, among Fifth
Third Bank, Fifth Third Financial Corporation, Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., FTPS Holding, LLC and Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report onForm 8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

3.1Amended Articles of Incorporation of Fifth Third Bancorp, as Amended. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2014.

3.2Code of Regulations of Fifth Third Bancorp, as Amended as of September 15, 2014.

4.1Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.

4.2Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2003, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.3Global Security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 4.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to
the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.

4.4First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 20, 2006, between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. Incorporated by
reference to Registrant’s Annual Report onForm 10-Kfiled for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.5Global Security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 5.45% Subordinated Notes due 2017. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.15 to
the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.6Global Security representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $250,000,000 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes due 2016. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.16 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

4.7First Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the Junior
Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on March 30, 2007.

4.8Global Security dated as of March 4, 2008 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 2038. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report onForm 10-Qfiled for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. (1)

4.9Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as





182  Fifth Third Bancorp




trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.

4.10First Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 25, 2011 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for
Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 25,
2011.

4.11Global Security dated as of January 25, 2011 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 3.625% Senior Notes due 2016. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 25, 2011. (2)

4.12Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 7, 2012 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture
for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on March 7, 2012.

4.13Global Security dated as of March 7, 2012 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022. Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2012.

4.14Deposit Agreement dated as of May 16, 2013, between Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and
calculation agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.15Form of Certificate Representing the 5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, of Fifth Third Bancorp.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.16Form of Depositary Receipt for the 5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, of Fifth Third Bancorp.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2013.

4.17Global Security dated as of November 20, 2013 representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 4.30% Subordinated Notes due 2024. Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 20, 2013.

4.18Deposit Agreement dated December 9, 2013, between Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and
calculation agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.19Form of Certificate Representing the 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third Bancorp.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.20Form of Depositary Receipt for the 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third Bancorp.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2013.

4.21Deposit Agreement dated June 5, 2014, among Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and calculation
agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.22Form of Certificate Representing the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s

Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.23Form of Depositary Receipt for the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.24Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 28, 2014 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture
for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on February 28, 2014.

4.25Global Security dated as of February 28, 2014, representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $500,000,000 in principal amount of its 2.30% Senior Notes
due 2019. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on February 28, 2014.

4.26Deposit Agreement dated June 5, 2014, among Fifth Third Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as depositary and calculation
agent, American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant’s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.27Form of Certificate Representing the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.28Form of Depositary Receipt for the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third Bancorp.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 5, 2014.

4.29Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 27, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the Indenture for
Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 27, 2015.

4.30Global Security dated as of July 27, 2015, representing Fifth Third Bancorp’s $1,100,000,000 in principal amount of its 2.875% Senior Notes due
2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 27, 2015.

10.1Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.2Indenture effective November 19, 1992 between Fifth Third Bancorp, Issuer and NBD Bank, N.A., Trustee. Incorporated by reference to
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 18, 1992 and as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 33-54134.

10.3Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.4First Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.5Second Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.*

10.6Third Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the
Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.7Fifth Third Bancorp 401(k) Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant’s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.8First Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp 401(k) Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated.*





183  Fifth
Third Bancorp




10.9The Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.**

10.10First Amendment to The Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and Restated.*

10.11Fifth Third Bancorp Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex 2 to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated
February 19, 2004.*

10.12Fifth Third Bancorp 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex 2 to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated
March 6, 2008.*

10.13Fifth Third Bancorp 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Annex A to the Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated
March 6, 2014.*

10.14Amended and Restated Fifth Third Bancorp 1993 Stock Purchase Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant’s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.*

10.15Fifth Third Bancorp Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the
Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.*

10.16Amendment to the Fifth Third Bancorp Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14
of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.17Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Proxy Statement dated February 9, 2001.*

10.18Amendment No. 1 to Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 26, 2005.*

10.19Amended and Restated First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc. 2003 Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to First National
Bankshares of Florida, Inc.’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.*

10.20Fifth Third Bancorp Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, effective January 1, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 21, 2014.*

10.21Warrant dated June 30, 2009 issued by Vantiv Holding, LLC to Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit L to the Registrant’s
Schedule 13D/A filed with the Commission on December 30, 2015.

10.22Second Amended & Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (excluding certain exhibits) dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv,
Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, Vantiv Holding, LLC and each person who becomes a member after March 21, 2012. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit C to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.23Amendment and Restatement Agreement and Reaffirmation (excluding certain schedules) dated as of June 30, 2009 among Fifth Third Processing
Solutions, LLC, FTPS Holding, LLC, Card Management Company, LLC, Fifth Third Holdings, LLC and Fifth Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Current Report onForm 8-Kfiled with the Commission on July 2, 2009.

10.24Registration Rights Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and
certain stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit E to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.25Exchange Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC and such
other holders of Class B Units and Class C Non-Voting Units that are from time to time parties of the Exchange Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.26Recapitalization Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC,
JPDN Enterprises, LLC and certain stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit D to the Registrant’s Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.

10.27Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.28Performance Share Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2013.*

10.29Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.30Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.*

10.31Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.32Performance Share Award Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.33Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.36 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.34Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.*

10.35Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated October 20, 2014 between
Fifth Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.**

10.36Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated July 29, 2015 between
Fifth Third Bancorp and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report onForm 10-Qfiled with the Commission on November 5, 2015.**

10.37Supplemental Confirmation dated September 3, 2015, to Master Confirmation, dated May 21, 2013, for accelerated share repurchase transaction between
Fifth Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. acting as agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on
November 5, 2015. Master Confirmation is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on August 7, 2013.**

10.38Separation Agreement between Fifth Third Bancorp and Dan Poston dated October 2, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed with the Commission on October 6, 2015.

10.39Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated April 27, 2015 between
Fifth Third Bancorp and Barclays Bank PLC, through its agent Barclays Capital Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on August 5, 2015.**

10.40Offer letter from Fifth Third Bancorp to Lars C. Anderson. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Commission on July 16, 2015**

10.41Master Confirmation, dated January 22, 2015, and Supplemental Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated January 22, 2015
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on May 11, 2015.**

10.42Supplemental Confirmation dated December 9, 2015, to Master Confirmation dated January 22, 2015, for accelerated share repurchase transaction
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association.**

12.1Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

12.2Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.

21Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2015.

23Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-Deloitte & Touche LLP.

31(i)Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer.





184  Fifth Third Bancorp




31(ii)Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial Officer.

32(i)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer.

32(ii)Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial Officer.

99.1Consent Order pursuant to the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, dated September 28, 2015, between Fifth Third Bank and the U.S. Department
of Justice regarding indirect auto loans. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report onForm 8-Kfiled with the Commission on September 29, 2015.

99.2Consent Order pursuant to the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, dated September 28, 2015, between Fifth Third Bank and the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, including the Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order, dated September 28, 2015, by Fifth Third Bank regarding indirect auto loans. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant’s
Current Report onForm 8-Kfiled with the Commission on September 29, 2015.

99.3Consent Order pursuant to the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, dated September 28, 2015, between Fifth Third Bank and the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, including the Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order, dated September 28, 2015, by Fifth Third Bank regarding credit card add-on products. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the
Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on September 29, 2015.

99.4Settlement Agreement entered into on September 30, 2015, between the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and Fifth Third
Bancorp and its subsidiaries. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on October 7, 2015.

99.5Stipulation and Order of Settlement and Dismissal entered into on September 30, 2015, by and among plaintiff the United States of America and on
behalf of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Federal Housing Administration and Fifth Third Bancorp and its subsidiaries (excluding exhibits). Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant’s
Current Report onForm 8-Kfiled with the Commission on October 7, 2015.



(1)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on March 4, 2008 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 8.25% Subordinated
Notes due 2038.

(2)Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on January 25, 2011 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 3.625% Senior
Notes due 2016.

*    Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

**  An application for confidential treatment for selected portions of this exhibit has been filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.







185  Fifth
Third Bancorp




SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.FIFTH THIRD BANCORPRegistrant/s/ Greg D. CarmichaelGreg D. CarmichaelPresident and CEOPrincipal Executive OfficerFebruary 25, 2016Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed on February
25, 2016 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated.OFFICERS:/s/ Greg D. CarmichaelGreg D. CarmichaelPresident and CEOPrincipal Executive Officer/s/ Tayfun TuzunTayfun TuzunExecutive Vice President and CFOPrincipal Financial Officer/s/ Mark D. HazelMark D. HazelSenior Vice President and ControllerPrincipal Accounting Officer

DIRECTORS:/s/ James P. HackettJames P. HackettChairman/s/ Marsha C. WilliamsMarsha C. WilliamsLead Director/s/ Nicholas K. AkinsNicholas K. Akins/s/ B. Evan Bayh IIIB. Evan Bayh III/s/ Jorge L. BenitezJorge L. Benitez/s/ Katherine B. BlackburnKatherine B. Blackburn/s/ Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr./s/ Emerson L. BrumbackEmerson L. Brumback/s/ Greg D. CarmichaelGreg D. Carmichael/s/ Gary R. HemingerGary R. Heminger/s/ Jewell D. HooverJewell D. Hoover/s/ Kevin T. KabatKevin T. Kabat/s/ Michael B. McCallisterMichael B. McCallister/s/ Hendrik G. MeijerHendrik G. Meijer





186  Fifth Third Bancorp




CONSOLIDATED TEN YEAR COMPARISON



AVERAGE ASSETS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS)Interest-Earning AssetsYearLoans andLeasesFederal FundsSold(a)Interest-BearingDeposits inBanks(a)SecuritiesTotalCash and Duefrom BanksOtherAssetsTotal AverageAssets2015$93,33913,25726,987123,5842,60815,212140,111201491,127-3,04321,823115,9932,89214,539131,943201389,09312,41616,444107,9542,48215,053123,732201284,82221,49315,319101,6362,35515,695117,614201180,21412,03015,43797,6822,35215,335112,666201079,232113,31716,37198,9312,24514,841112,434200983,391121,02317,100101,5262,32914,266114,856200885,83543818313,42499,8802,49013,411114,296200778,34825714711,63090,3822,27510,613102,477200673,49325214420,91094,7992,4778,713105,238



AVERAGE DEPOSITS AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS)DepositsYearDemandInterestCheckingSavingsMoneyMarketOtherTimeCertificates$100,000 andOverForeignOfficeTotalShort-TermBorrowingsTotal2015$35,16426,16014,95118,1524,0512,869874102,2212,641104,862201431,75525,38216,08014,6703,7623,9291,82897,4062,33199,737201329,92523,58218,4409,4673,7606,3391,51893,0313,52796,558201227,19623,09621,3934,9034,3063,1021,55585,5514,80690,357201123,38918,70721,6525,1546,2603,6563,49782,3153,12285,437201019,66918,21819,6124,80810,5266,0833,36182,2771,92684,203200916,86215,07016,8754,32014,10310,3672,26579,8626,98086,842200814,01714,19116,1926,12711,1359,5314,22075,41310,76086,173200713,26114,82014,8366,30810,7786,4663,15569,6246,89076,514200613,74116,65012,1896,36610,5005,7953,71168,9528,67077,622



INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)Per Share(b)Originally ReportedYearInterestIncomeInterestExpenseNoninterestIncomeNoninterestExpenseNet Income (Loss)Available toCommonShareholdersEarningsDilutedEarningsDividendsDeclaredEarningsDilutedEarnings2015$4,0284953,0033,7751,6372.032.010.522.03$2.0120144,0304512,4733,7091,4141.681.660.511.681.6620133,9734123,2273,9611,7992.052.020.472.052.0220124,1075122,9994,0811,5411.691.660.361.691.6620114,2186612,4553,7581,0941.201.180.281.201.1820104,4898852,7293,8555030.630.630.040.630.6320094,6681,3144,7823,8265110.730.670.040.730.6720085,6082,0942,9464,564(2,180)(3.91)(3.91)0.75(3.94)(3.94)20076,0273,0182,4673,3111,0751.991.981.702.001.9920065,9553,0822,0122,9151,1882.132.121.582.142.13



MISCELLANEOUS AT DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)Bancorp Shareholders’ EquityYearCommonSharesOutstandingCommonStockPreferredStockCapitalSurplusRetainedEarningsAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeTreasuryStockTotalBook ValuePer ShareAllowance forLoan andLease Losses2015785,080,314$2,0511,3312,66612,358197(2,764)15,83918.48$1,2722014824,046,9522,0511,3312,64611,141429(1,972)15,62617.351,3222013855,305,7452,0511,0342,56110,15682(1,295)14,58915.851,5822012882,152,0572,0513982,7588,768375(634)13,71615.101,8542011919,804,4362,0513982,7927,554470(64)13,20113.922,2552010796,272,5221,7793,6541,7156,719314(130)14,05113.063,0042009795,068,1641,7793,6091,7436,326241(201)13,49712.443,7492008577,386,6121,2954,2418485,82498(229)12,07713.572,7872007532,671,9251,29591,7798,413(126)(2,209)9,16117.189372006556,252,6741,29591,8128,317(179)(1,232)10,02218.00771

(a)Federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in banks are combined in other short-term investments in the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

(b)Adjusted for accounting guidance related to the calculation of earnings per share, which was adopted retroactively on January 1,
2009.



187  Fifth
Third Bancorp




DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS



FIFTH THIRDBANCORP DIRECTORSJames P. Hackett, ChairmanInterim Director of AthleticsUniversity of MichiganVice Chair and DirectorSteelcase, Inc.Marsha C. Williams, Lead DirectorRetired Senior Vice
President & Chief Financial OfficerOrbitz Worldwide, Inc.Nicholas K. AkinsChairman, President & CEOAmerican Electric PowerCompanyB. Evan Bayh IIIPartnerMcGuireWoods LLPJorge L. BenitezRetired CEO (U.S.) andSenior Managing Director(North America), AccentureKatherine B. BlackburnExecutive Vice PresidentCincinnati Bengals, Inc.Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr.PresidentB.F. CompaniesEmerson L. BrumbackRetired President & COOM&T BankGreg D. CarmichaelPresident & CEOFifth Third BancorpGary R. HemingerPresident, CEO & DirectorMarathon PetroleumCorporationJewell D. HooverPrincipal & Bank ConsultantHoover and Associates,
LLCKevin T. KabatVice ChairmanFifth Third BancorpMichael B. McCallisterRetired Chairman & CEOHumana Inc.Hendrik G. MeijerCo-Chairman, Director& CEOMeijer, Inc.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP OFFICERSGreg D. CarmichaelPresident &Chief Executive OfficerLars C. AndersonExecutive Vice President &Chief Operating OfficerChad M. BortonExecutive Vice PresidentFrank R. ForrestExecutive Vice President &Chief Risk OfficerMark D. HazelSenior Vice President &ControllerHeather Russell KoenigExecutive Vice President,Chief Legal Officer &Corporate SecretaryRandolph J. KoporcExecutive Vice PresidentGregory L. KoschExecutive Vice PresidentJames C. LeonardExecutive Vice President &TreasurerPhilip R. McHughExecutive Vice PresidentJoseph R. RobinsonExecutive Vice President &Chief Operationsand Technology OfficerTimothy N. SpenceExecutive Vice President &Chief Strategy OfficerTeresa J. TannerExecutive Vice President &Chief Administrative OfficerTayfun TuzunExecutive Vice President &Chief Financial Officer

REGIONAL PRESIDENTSRalph S. Michael III(Group Regional President)Donald Abel, Jr.Michael AshSteven AlonsoDavid A. CallHal ClemmerTimothy Elsbrock(Market President)David GirodatThomas HeiksJerry KelsheimerRobert W. LaClairBrian LambJordan A. Miller, Jr.Robert A. SullivanThomas G. Welch, Jr.FIFTH THIRD BANCORP BOARD COMMITTEESAudit CommitteeEmerson L. Brumback, ChairNicholas K. AkinsKatherine B. BlackburnJewell D. HooverFinance CommitteeGary R. Heminger, ChairEmerson L. BrumbackJames P. HackettKevin T. KabatMarsha C. WilliamsHuman Capital and Compensation CommitteeMarsha C. Williams, ChairNicholas K. AkinsGary R. HemingerMichael B. McCallisterHendrik G. MeijerNominating and Corporate Governance
CommitteeUlysses L. Bridgeman, Jr., ChairB. Evan Bayh
IIIGary R. HemingerHendrik G. MeijerRegulatory Oversight CommitteeMarsha C. Williams, ChairNicholas K. AkinsEmerson L. BrumbackJewell D. HooverRisk and Compliance CommitteeJewell D. Hoover, ChairB. Evan Bayh IIIJorge L. BenitezHendrik G. MeijerMarsha C. Williams





188  Fifth Third Bancorp

