
10-K
10-K





                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                                WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                     ___________

                                      FORM 10-K

  /X/    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
         OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
         FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1996
 / /     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
         OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                                COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
                                        0-12933
                                      ___________

                               LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
                   (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                                           
                          DELAWARE                      94-2634797
               (State of other jurisdiction          (I.R.S. Employer
                     of incorporation)               Identification No.)
                   4650 CUSHING PARKWAY,                   94538
                 FREMONT, CALIFORNIA                    (Zip Code)
                 (Address of principal
                    executive offices)

          Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (510) 659-0200
                                     ___________

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE

             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                       COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.001 PER SHARE
                                      __________

    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X   No 
                                             ---     ---   
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. /X/
                                
    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant, based on the average of the closing price of the Common Stock on
August 30, 1996, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market was approximately
$604,136,000.  Shares of Common Stock held by each officer and director and by
each person who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been
excluded from this computation in that such persons may be deemed to be
affiliates.  This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a
conclusive determination for other purposes. 

    As of  August 30, 1996, the registrant had outstanding 30,298,633 shares of
Common Stock.





                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


    Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1996 ("1996 Annual Report to Stockholders"), are incorporated by
reference into Parts I, II and IV of this Report.

    Parts of Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on October 31, 1996 are incorporated by reference to
Parts III and IV of this Form 10-K Report.  (The Compensation Committee Report
and the stock performance graph of the Registrant's Proxy Statement are
expressly not incorporated by reference herein.)

                                        PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

    This Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward looking statements
regarding future events with respect to the Company. Actual events or results
may differ materially as a result of the factors described herein and in the
documents incorporated herein by reference, including, in particular, those
factors described under "Risk Factors." Forward-looking statements are indicated
by an asterisk (*).

THE COMPANY

    Lam Research Corporation (Lam) designs, manufactures, markets and
services semiconductor processing equipment used in the fabrication of
integrated circuits.  Lam is recognized by its customers worldwide as a leading
supplier of semiconductor production equipment. The Company's products are used
to deposit special films on a silicon wafer (deposition) to selectively etch
away portions of various films (etch) to create an integrated circuit. 
Deposition and etch processes, which are repeated numerous times during the
fabrication cycle, are required to manufacture every semiconductor device
produced today. 

    The Company currently sells a broad range of plasma (dry) etch products 
to address specific applications, including the AutoEtch-Registered 
Trademark-, Advanced Capabilities Rainbow-TM-, and Transformer Coupled 
Plasma-TM-(TCP-TM-) product lines.  In the deposition market, Lam offers its 
Deep SubMicron-TM- (DSM-TM- 9800) (formerly Integrity-Registered Trademark-) 
low pressure (LP) chemical vapor deposition (CVD) system, a fully automated 
batch thermal CVD system for pre-metal dielectric applications, and its Deep 
SubMicron (DSM 9900) (formerly Epic-TM-) high density plasma (HDP) CVD 
system, which addresses advanced intermetal passivation dielectric 
applications for logic and microprocessor integrated circuits as well as 
shallow trenches for isolation in memory circuits.

PRODUCTS

    Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process steps 
that result in the simultaneous creation of many individual semiconductor 
circuits.  The basic steps include deposition, photolithography, etching, 
assembly and testing.  Lam's products are used in the deposition and etch 
process steps of semiconductor device manufacturing and are available as 
stand-alone systems or on the Company's Advanced Capabilities Alliance 
multichamber cluster platform. Lam incorporates its Envision-TM- interactive 
control system software for advanced production management on each of its 
systems. 

ETCH PRODUCTS

    The etch process defines line-widths and other micro features on integrated
circuits.  Plasma etching, a dry etch technique, was developed to meet the
demand for device geometries with line-widths smaller than three microns. 
Plasma etching uses ionized gases that react with exposed portions of the wafer
to produce finely delineated features and patterns of the integrated circuit. 

    Today manufacturers of advanced integrated circuits require etch systems
that can produce line-widths as small as 0.25 micron (approximately 1/300 the
thickness of a human hair) and in the future are expected to require systems
capable 



of producing devices with feature sizes smaller than 0.1 micron.  In
addition, advanced manufacturing facilities are producing integrated circuits on
wafers of 150 or 200 mm (6 or 8 inches) in diameter, and a transition in wafer
diameters is expected to increase to 300 mm (12 inches) starting in 1998.  To
accommodate these decreasing line-widths and increasing wafer diameters,
manufacturers increasingly require more precise control over the etching
process. 

    Lam's family of etch systems incorporates plasma technologies designed to
meet both current and future device requirements.  In the fiscal years ended
June 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994, sales of the Company's etch systems contributed
approximately 77%, 77% and 78% of the Company's total revenues, respectively. 

    AUTOETCH.  The AutoEtch family was Lam's initial product line, with the
first AutoEtch etcher sold in January 1982.  The AutoEtch product line includes
the 490, 590 and 690 series for etching polysilicon, oxide and aluminum film,
respectively.  Although the AutoEtch series is more than fifteen
years old, continued improvements in both reliability and performance have
enabled Lam to continue to offer it as a suitable product for applications
involving line widths of 0.8 micron or greater and wafer sizes of six inches or
smaller.  In addition, Lam offers the service of refurbishing or remanufacturing
AutoEtch systems. 

    RAINBOW.  The first Rainbow etch system was introduced in 1987.  The
Rainbow series of products addresses processes that utilize wafer sizes up to
200 mm and feature sizes as small as 0.35 micron.  The Rainbow product line 
also available on the Alliance platform, includes the Rainbow 4400, 4500, 
4600 and 4700 series for etching polysilicon, oxide, aluminum and tungsten 
films, respectively.  These systems are designed to accommodate evolving 
customer needs through hardware and process enhancements. 

    The Rainbow product series incorporates a number of unique features that
offer semiconductor manufacturers improved etch capability, reliability and
performance.  These features include a patented wafer handling system, a
proprietary source for generating stable plasma, and an overall product design
for which Lam has received industry awards for quality and reliability.  These
and other Rainbow product features enable the semiconductor manufacturer to 
reduce wafer particle contamination to a level that exceeds industry 
standards, and to improve etch selectivity and uniformity while maintaining 
profile control and process flexibility. 

    TCP.  Lam's TCP product line of high density, low pressure etch systems,
which was introduced in late 1992, incorporates the Company's patented
Transformer Coupled Plasma source technology for etching 0.35 micron and
smaller geometries. The Company currently offers the TCP 9600SE for metal
etch applications, the TCP 9400SE for polysilicon and polycide etch
applications and the TCP 9100 for oxide etch applications. These systems
are currently used to produce a broad range of advanced logic and memory devices
and the Company believes these products offer technological capability to enable
manufacturers to produce the next generations of advanced devices. The TCP
series operates at lower pressures for improved pattern transfer control and
higher plasma density for higher etch rates with independent power control to
the lower electrode, which improves etch results across a wider process window. 
Lam's TCP systems are designed to offer customers a reliable, lower cost of
ownership solution to their advanced needs.  The TCP systems are available as
stand-alone, single wafer tools, or on the Alliance multichamber cluster
platform.

DEPOSITION PRODUCTS

    CVD involves the deposition of thin films on a silicon wafer by exposing 
the wafer to various reactant gases containing the materials to be deposited. 
 Insulating films are deposited to form dielectric layers on integrated 
circuits.  The metal interconnect layer is typically deposited on the wafer 
surface by a sputtering process to provide electrical connection between the 
various circuit elements. The dielectric layer is deposited over the 
interconnects and subsequent layer to provide electrical insulation between 
the interconnect layers.  To increase circuit functionality, manufacturers 
have designed circuits with multilevel interconnections (stacked levels of 
wiring separated by insulating dielectric layers) using lower resistivity 
materials for improved device performance.  Multiple levels of interconnects 
allow device manufacturers to increase the density and complexity of the 
integrated circuit.  Current state-of-the-art devices may have as many as 
five interconnect and dielectric layers on the integrated circuit.  Lam 
currently manufactures two dielectric layer deposition products, the DSM 9800 
and DSM 9900, to address advanced device requirements.



    DSM 9800.  DSM 9800 LP CVD system for depositing advanced pre-metal 
dielectric films. This system utilizes a patented integrated process design 
for flowing gases rapidly over the wafer, forming films that are highly 
uniform and planar at a lower thermal budget to provide improved device 
performance.  DSM 9800 has been installed worldwide and is currently being 
used for production of semiconductor devices at 0.35 micron and beyond.

    DSM 9900.  Lam introduced its DSM 9900 HDP CVD system in November 1995. 
DSM 9900 represents the next generation in HDP CVD technology first 
introduced in the Epic system with the DSM 9900 having a smaller footprint, 
high reliability and improved throughput. The DSM 9900 is well suited for the 
demanding requirements of high production environments. Like the Epic, the 
DSM 9900 makes use of electron cyclotron resonance (ECR) technology to form a 
high density, low pressure plasma. ECR enables remote plasma coupling that 
minimizes particulate contamination and maximizes throughput while filling 
gaps as small as 0.18 microns with aspect ratios as high as 3:1. The 
intermetal dielectric films created by simultaneously depositing and etching 
are planarized more easily, by chemical mechanical polishing, than films that 
are repeatedly deposited and etched by conventional techniques. The DSM 9900 
technology, available on Lam's Alliance platform, has been installed at 
several customer sites and is being qualified for production of quarter- and 
sub-quarter-micron logic, microprocessor, and memory integrated circuits. The 
Epic system is still being supported and is used for production of 
microprocessors.

    Lam, Lam Research, Transformer Coupled Plasma, TCP, Deep SubMicron, DSM,
Rainbow, Continuum, Alliance and Envision are trademarks of Lam Research
Corporation. AutoEtch is a registered trademark of Lam Research Corporation.

THE RESTRUCTURING

    In August 1996, the Company announced a restructuring (the restructuring)
of its operations, consolidating its previous business unit structure into
centralized functional organizations. As a result of the restructuring, and in
response to industry conditions, the Company reduced its workforce by
approximately 11%. For the first quarter of fiscal 1997, the Company will record
a restructuring charge of $11.0 to 12.0 million for costs resulting primarily
from severance compensation and consolidation of related facilities.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    The market for semiconductor capital equipment is characterized by rapid
technological change.  The Company believes that continued and timely
development of new products and enhancements to existing products are necessary
for it to maintain its competitive position.  Accordingly, the Company devotes a
significant portion of its personnel and financial resources to research and
development (R&D) programs and seeks to maintain close relationships with its
customers to be responsive to their product needs. 

    The Company's net R&D expenses during fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, were
approximately $173.0 million, $127.8 million and $76.3 million, respectively,
and represented 13.6%, 15.8% and 15.5% of total revenue, respectively.  Such R&D
expenses were net of third party funding, from SEMATECH, an industry consortium,
and customers, representing approximately $3.4 million, $2.6 million and $1.8
million during fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Such expenditures were
used for the development of new products and film applications, and the
continued enhancement of existing products.  Current projects include the
development of advanced etch and deposition products. 

    In June 1994, the Company received a two year contract from the United 
States Display Consortium (USDC) for the development of a flat panel display 
etch system, based on the Company's TCP technology.  The Continuum-TM- etch 
system is designed for use in the manufacture of large scale flat panel 
displays for several new technologies including active matrix liquid crystal 
displays (AMLCDs) and field emission displays (FEDs).  Included in the $3.4 
million and $2.6 million of third party funded R&D for fiscal 1996 and 1995 
was $3.2 million and $1.2 million from USDC.

    The Company expects to continue to make substantial investments 
in R&D.*  The Company also must manage product transitions successfully,
as introductions of new products could adversely affect sales of existing
products.  There can be no assurance that future technologies, processes or
product developments will not render the Company's product



offerings obsolete or that the Company will be able to develop and introduce 
new products or enhancements to its existing products and processes in a 
timely manner which satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance.  The 
failure to do so could adversely affect the Company's business.  Furthermore, 
if the Company is not successful in the development of advanced process 
equipment for manufacturers with whom it has formed strategic alliances, its 
ability to sell its products to those manufacturers would be adversely 
affected.  In addition, in connection with the development of the Company's 
new products, the Company invests in high levels of pre-production inventory, 
and the failure to complete development and commercialization of these new 
products in a timely manner could result in inventory obsolescence, which 
could reduce the Company's financial results. 

MARKETING, SALES AND SERVICE

    The Company's marketing and sales efforts are focused on building long-term
relationships with its customers.  These efforts are supported by a team of
product marketing managers, sales personnel, equipment engineers and process
engineers that works closely with individual customers to find solutions to
their process needs.  After-sales support is an essential element of the
Company's marketing and sales program.  The Company maintains an ongoing support
relationship with its customers and has an extensive network of field service
personnel in place across the United States, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific.  In
addition, the Company maintains an in-house group of highly skilled application
engineers to respond to customer process needs worldwide when a higher level of
technical expertise is required.  The Company believes that its extensive
support programs and close working relationships with its customers give it a
competitive advantage.  The Company also believes that, by assisting its
customers in the development of their advanced manufacturing processes, the
customers are less likely to change equipment vendors. 

    The Company has 40 sales and support centers located throughout the United
States, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific, through which direct sales personnel
and independent sales representatives sell and service the Company's products.
The Company has expanded its sales and support offices in Japan to support the
direct sales efforts which began in October 1994.  More recently, the Company
has increased that effort by furthering its direct sales and service capability
in Japan to directly market and support its advanced etch products.  The Company
now offers its customers a comprehensive, two-year warranty package on all
released products with 24 hour, seven days a week service. 

    In Japan, the Company has licensing arrangements with Sumitomo Metal
Industries, Ltd. (Sumitomo) and Tokyo Electron Limited (TEL). Sumitomo
manufactures, sells and distributes certain of the Company's Rainbow products to
specific customers in Japan under an exclusive license agreement with Lam. TEL
has a non-exclusive license to sell products incorporating certain features of
Lam's proprietary etch technology.  In June 1991, the Company opened the Lam
Technology Center near Tokyo, Japan, to establish a presence in Japan and to
assist Sumitomo in serving Japanese customers.  In May 1993, Lam completed its
advanced development and demonstration laboratory in Sagamihara, Japan, which
allows customers to evaluate the Company's recently introduced advanced
technology products.  During fiscal 1996, the Company expanded in Japan by
building a third floor on this existing building. In July 1996, the Company
began construction of a second facility in Sagamihara, Japan.

    Export sales accounted for approximately 41%, 38% and 40% of net sales in
fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Export sales consist of sales from
the Company's U.S. operating subsidiary to nonaffiliated customers in foreign
countries. Additionally, the Company expanded its international operations,
including expansion of its Japan operations, the opening of a manufacturing
facility in Korea in July 1995 and the relocation and expansion of the Taiwan
facility to a technology development center.  As a result, a
significant portion of the Company's sales and operations will be subject to
certain risks, including tariffs and other barriers, difficulties in staffing
and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations, difficulties in managing
distributors, potentially adverse tax consequences and the possibility of
difficulty in accounts receivable collection.*  There can be no assurance that
any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

CUSTOMERS

    The Company's customers include most of the leading semiconductor
manufacturers worldwide. In fiscal 1996, no single customer accounted for more
than 10% of Lam's total revenue. Revenue from Intel accounted for 11% and 14% of




total revenue for the years ended June 30, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Revenue
from Motorola accounted for 10% of total revenue for the year ended June 30,
1995.

    The Company's business depends upon the capital expenditures of
semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated
market demand for integrated circuits and products utilizing integrated
circuits.  The semiconductor industry is currently experiencing a slowdown in
terms of product demand and product pricing. This has caused semiconductor
manufacturers to exercise caution in making their capital equipment purchase
decisions and in certain cases customers have either rescheduled or cancelled
capital equipment purchases. In response to market conditions, the Company
announced a restructuring of its operations, consolidating its previous business
unit structure into centralized functional organizations. No assurance can be
given that the Company's revenue and operating results will not be further
adversely affected if downturns in the semiconductor industry occur. 

BACKLOG

    The Company schedules production of its systems based upon order backlog
and customer commitments. Included in backlog for the Company are 
orders for which written authorizations have been accepted
and shipment dates have been assigned.  As of June 30, 1996, the Company's order
backlog was approximately $328.0 million.  As of June 30, 1995, the Company's
order backlog was approximately $252.6 million. The semiconductor market is
presently experiencing volatility in terms of product demand and product
pricing. This has caused certain semiconductor manufacturers to exercise caution
in making their capital equipment purchase decisions and in certain cases to
reschedule or cancel capital equipment purchases. All orders are subject to
cancellation by the customer with limited penalty.  Because some orders are
received for systems to be shipped in the same quarter and possible customer
changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, the Company's backlog
at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any
succeeding period. 

MANUFACTURING

    The Company maintains U.S. facilities at five locations in Fremont, 
California and one location in Wilmington, Massachusetts for the manufacture 
of its etch and deposition products. In addition, in July 1995, the Company 
completed a manufacturing facility in CheonAn, Korea.  The Company's Korean 
manufacturing facility may experience difficulties in management, 
procurement, production and staffing.  There can be no assurances that these 
factors will not have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial 
condition and results of operations.

    The Company's manufacturing activities consist of assembling and testing
components and subassemblies that are then integrated into finished systems. 
Once the manufacturing department has completed final testing of all electronic
and electromechanical subassemblies that make up one of the Company's products,
the completed system is process tested. Stringent cleanliness controls are
present throughout the manufacturing, process and testing areas of these
facilities to reduce particle contamination.  Much of the assembly and testing
of the Company's products is conducted in cleanroom environments where personnel
are properly attired to reduce particulate contamination.  Prior to shipping a
completed system, the customer's engineers may perform acceptance tests at Lam's
facility, using the customer's own wafers.  After passing the acceptance test,
the system is vacuum-bagged in a cleanroom environment and prepared for
shipment. 

    The Company is subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to
the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals
used in the manufacturing process.  The Company believes that it is in
compliance with these regulations and that it has obtained all necessary
environmental permits to conduct its business. These permits generally
relate to the disposal of hazardous wastes.  Nevertheless, the failure to comply
with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on the
Company, suspension of production or cessation of operations.  Such regulations
could require the Company to acquire significant equipment or to incur
substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations.  Any
failure by the Company to control the use of, or adequately restrict the
discharge or disposal of hazardous substances could subject the Company to
future liabilities. 







EMPLOYEES

    As of  August 30, 1996, the Company had approximately 4,500 full-time 
employees. As a result of the restructuring in August 1996, the Company 
reduced its workforce by approximately 11%. None of the Company's employees 
are represented by a union, and the Company has never experienced a work 
stoppage.  Management considers its employee relations to be satisfactory.  
In addition, each employee of the Company has signed agreements to maintain 
the confidentiality of the Company's proprietary information, and most key 
employees have stock or stock option arrangements with the Company that 
provide for the vesting of their interests over several years. 

COMPETITION

    The semiconductor processing equipment industry is highly competitive. The
Company faces substantial competition throughout the world.  The Company
believes that to remain competitive, it will require significant financial
resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and
support centers worldwide and to invest in product and process R&D.  Certain of
the Company's existing and potential competitors have substantially greater
financial resources, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and
customer service and support organizations. The Company expects its competitors
to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and
processes and to introduce new products and processes with improved price and
performance characteristics.* If the Company's competitors enter into strategic
relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering etch or
deposition products similar to those sold by the Company, its ability to sell
its products to those manufacturers could be adversely affected.* No assurance
can be given that the Company will continue to compete successfully in the
United States or worldwide. 

    Significant competitive factors in the etch equipment market include etch
quality, repeatability, process capability and flexibility and overall cost of
ownership, including reliability, software automation, throughput, customer
support and system price.  Although the Company believes that it competes
favorably with respect to each of these factors, the Company's ability to
compete successfully in this market will depend upon its ability to introduce
product enhancements and new products on a timely basis.  There can be no
assurance that the Company will continue to compete successfully in the future. 
In the etch equipment market, the Company's primary competitors are Applied
Materials, Inc., TEL, and Hitachi Ltd.

    Significant competitive factors in the deposition equipment market include
film quality, flow uniformity, contamination control, temperature control and
overall cost of ownership, including throughput, system reliability, cost of
consumables, system price and customer support.  In the deposition equipment
market, the principal suppliers of equipment are Applied Materials, Inc., Canon
Sales Co. Inc., Novellus Systems, Inc. and Watkins-Johnson Company. 

PATENTS AND LICENSES

    The Company has a policy of seeking patents on inventions governing new
products and processes developed as part of its ongoing research, engineering
and manufacturing activities. The Company holds United States patents and
corresponding foreign patents covering various aspects of its products. The
Company believes that the duration of its patents generally exceeds the life
cycles of the technologies disclosed and claimed therein. The Company believes
that although the patents it holds and may obtain will be of value, they will
not determine the Company's success, which depends principally upon its
engineering, marketing, service and manufacturing skills. However, in the
absence of patent protection, the Company may be vulnerable to competitors who
attempt to imitate the Company's products, manufacturing
techniques and processes.  In addition, other companies and inventors may
receive patents that contain claims applicable to the Company's products and
processes.  The sale of the Company's products covered by such patents could
require licenses that may not be available on acceptable terms. 

    From time to time, the Company is notified that it may be in violation of
certain patents. In such cases, the Company's policy is to defend against claims
or negotiate licenses where considered appropriate. However, no assurance can be
given that it will be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially
reasonable terms. In October 1993, Varian Associates, Inc. (Varian) brought suit
against the Company in the United States District Court, Northern District of





California, seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief based on the
Company's alleged infringement of certain patents held by Varian. See "Item 3.
Legal Proceedings." 

    In December 1986, the Company entered into a non-exclusive license
agreement with TEL, licensing the Company's AutoEtch technology and chamber
design. This license expired in December 1991, and, in January 1992, the Company
entered into a new five year license agreement with TEL on substantially similar
terms which was due to expire in December 1996 but has been extended at a
substantially lower royalty. 

    The Company has two license agreements with Sumitomo. Under one agreement,
Lam granted Sumitomo an exclusive license for the manufacture and sale of
certain Rainbow etch systems in the Japanese market. Under the other agreement,
Sumitomo granted the Company an exclusive license for the manufacture and sale
of Sumitomo's ECR systems in North America and Europe. 

RISK FACTORS

CURRENT  SLOWDOWN AND VOLATILITY IN THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY

    The Company's business depends upon the capital equipment expenditures of
semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated
market demand for integrated circuits and products utilizing integrated
circuits.  The semiconductor industry has been cyclical in nature and
historically experienced periodic downturns. The semiconductor industry is
presently experiencing a slowdown in terms of product demand and volatility in
terms of product pricing. This slowdown and volatility has caused the
semiconductor industry to reduce its demand for semiconductor processing
equipment.  No assurance can be given that the Company's  revenue and operating
results will not be adversely affected during this and possible future downturns
in the semiconductor industry.  In addition, the need for continued investments
in research and development, substantial capital equipment requirements and
extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capability will limit
the Company's ability to reduce expenses.*  Accordingly, there is no assurance
that the Company will be able to remain profitable in the future.

HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY

    The semiconductor processing equipment industry is highly competitive.  The
Company faces substantial competition throughout the world.  The Company
believes that to remain competitive, it will require significant financial
resources in order to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer
service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process
research and development.  In addition, the Company intends to continue to
invest substantial resources to increase sales of its systems to Japanese
semiconductor manufacturers, who represent a substantial portion of the
worldwide semiconductor market and whose market is difficult for non-Japanese
equipment companies to penetrate.  The Company believes that the semiconductor
equipment industry is becoming increasingly dominated by large manufacturers who
have the resources to support customers on a worldwide basis, and certain of the
Company's competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more
extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer service and support
capabilities than the Company.  In addition, there are smaller emerging
semiconductor equipment companies which provide innovative technology.  The
Company expects its competitors to continue to improve the design and
performance of their current products and processes and to introduce new
products and  processes  with  improved  price and performance characteristics. 
If the Company's competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading
semiconductor manufacturers covering etch or deposition products similar to
those sold by the Company, its ability to sell its products to those
manufacturers could be adversely affected.*  No assurance can be given that the
Company will continue to compete successfully in the United States or worldwide.

DEPENDENCE ON NEW PRODUCTS AND PROCESSES; RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE

    Semiconductor manufacturing equipment and processes are subject to rapid
technological change.  The Company believes that its future success will depend
in part upon its ability to continue to enhance its existing products and their
process capabilities and to develop and manufacture new products with improved
process capabilities.  As a result, the Company expects to continue to make
significant investments in research and development.* The Company also must




manage product transitions successfully, as introductions of new products could
adversely affect sales of existing products.  There can be no assurance that
future technologies, processes or product developments will not render the
Company's current product offerings obsolete or that the Company will be able to
develop and introduce new products or enhancements to its existing products and
processes in a timely manner which satisfy customer needs or achieve market
acceptance.  The failure to do so could adversely affect the Company's business.
Furthermore, if the Company is not successful in the development of advanced
processes or equipment for manufacturers with whom it has formed strategic
alliances, its ability to sell its products to those manufacturers would be
adversely affected.  In addition, in connection with the development of the
Company's new products, the Company invests in high levels of preproduction
inventory, and the failure to complete development and commercialization of
these new products in a timely manner could result in inventory obsolescence,
which could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results.

FLUCTUATIONS IN QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS

    The Company's revenue and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to
quarter.  The Company derives its revenue primarily from the sale of a
relatively small number of high-priced systems which can range in price from
$300,000 to over $3 million.  Some of these systems are ordered and shipped
during the same quarter.  The Company's results of operations for a particular
quarter could be adversely affected if anticipated orders for even a small
number of systems were not received in time to enable shipment during the
quarter, if anticipated shipments were delayed or cancelled by one or more
customers or if shipments were delayed due to manufacturing difficulties.  In
particular, the Company has experienced certain cases of rescheduling or
cancellation of orders.  The Company's revenue and operating results may also
fluctuate due to the mix of products sold, the geographic region or the level of
royalty income from the Company's Japanese licenses.  The Company generally
realizes a higher margin on sales of its mature etch products and on revenue
from service and spare parts than on sales of new TCP and Alliance products. 
Newer products usually have lower margins in the initial phase of production.
Increases or decreases in royalty income will also have a disproportionate
impact on operating income and will continue to fluctuate on a quarterly basis. 
The impact of these and other factors on the Company's revenues and operating
results in any future periods is difficult for the Company to forecast.

DEPENDENCE ON KEY SUPPLIERS

    Certain of the components and subassemblies included in the Company's
products are obtained from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. 
The Company believes that alternative sources could be obtained and qualified to
supply these products.  Nevertheless, a prolonged inability to obtain certain
components could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results and
could result in damage to customer relationships.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

    The Company is subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to
the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals
used in the manufacturing process.  The Company believes that it is in
compliance with these regulations and that it has obtained all necessary
environmental permits to conduct its business, which permits generally relate to
the disposal of hazardous wastes.  Nevertheless, the failure to comply with
present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on the
Company, suspension of production or cessation of operations.  Such regulations
could require the Company to acquire significant equipment or to incur
substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations.  Any
failure by the Company to control the use of, or adequately restrict the
discharge or disposal of hazardous substances could subject the Company to
future liabilities.

INTERNATIONAL SALES

    The Company anticipates that export sales will continue to account for a
significant portion of its net sales.*  Additionally, the Company continues to
expand its international operations, including expansion of its facilities in
Asia.  As a result, a significant portion of the Company's sales and operations
will be subject to certain risks, including tariffs and other barriers,
difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations,
difficulties in managing distributors, potentially adverse tax consequences and
the possibility of difficulty in accounts receivable




collection.  There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not 
have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition 
and results of operations.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MATTERS

    From time to time, the Company is notified that it may be in violation of
certain patents.  In such cases, the Company's policy is to defend against the
claims or negotiate licenses where considered appropriate.  However, no
assurance can be given that it will be able to obtain necessary licenses on
commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or any litigation resulting from such
claims could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and
financial condition.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    The Company's executive offices and principal manufacturing, and research
and development facilities are located in eighteen buildings in Fremont,
California, occupying over 1,500,000 square feet under leases expiring from 1998
to 2006. Due to the restructuring, the Company currently has excess capacity
and will consolidate and/or sublease some of its idle
facilities in Fremont, California. The Company also operates a research and
manufacturing facility in Wilmington, Massachusetts. 

    In addition, the Company leases office space for its service and sales
personnel throughout the United States, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific.  The
Company completed, in July 1995, construction of a manufacturing, sales and
service facility of 40,000 square feet, in CheonAn, South Korea.  In fiscal
1996, the Company expanded its current facility in Japan by building a third
floor on an existing building and completed the design for a second facility in
Sagamihara. Construction of the second facility began in July 1996.

    The Company's fiscal 1996 rental payments for the facilities occupied as of
June 30, 1996 aggregated approximately $35.3 million and are subject to periodic
increases.  The Company believes that its existing facilities are well
maintained and in good operating condition.
    
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    In October 1993, Varian Associates, Inc. (Varian) brought suit against the
Company in the United States District Court, for the Northern District of
California, seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief based on the
Company's alleged infringement of certain patents held by Varian.  The lawsuit
is in the late stages of discovery and has recently been reassigned to a new
judge.  The Company has asserted defenses of invalidity and unenforceability of
the patents that are the subject of the lawsuit, as well as noninfringement of
such patents by the Company's products.  While litigation is subject to inherent
uncertainties and no assurance can be given that the Company will prevail in
such litigation or will obtain a license under such patents on commercially
reasonable terms, or at all, if such patents are held valid and infringed by the
Company's products, the Company believes that the Varian lawsuit will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

    In addition, the Company is from time to time notified by various parties
that it may be in violation of certain patents.  In such cases, it is the
Company's intention to seek negotiated licenses where it is considered
appropriate.  The outcome of these matters will not, in management's opinion,
have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position,
operating results or cash flow statements.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    Not applicable.



                                       PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders under the heading "Selected
Financial Data" on page 14.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders under the heading "Selected
Financial Data" on page 14.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on
pages 15-19.
    
ITEM 8.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The Consolidated Financial Statements required by this Item are
incorporated by reference to pages 20-32 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report to
Stockholders. The unaudited quarterly results of operations are incorporated by
reference to page 14 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    
    Not applicable.




                                       PART III

    Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Report in
that the Registrant will file a definitive proxy statement within 120 days after
the end of its fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A (the "Proxy Statement")
for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held October 31, 1996 and
certain information included therein is incorporated herein by reference. 
(The Compensation Committee Report and the stock performance graph of the
Registrant's Proxy Statement are expressly not incorporated by reference
herein.)

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The information concerning the Company's directors required by this Item is
incorporated by reference to "Election of Directors" in the Company's Proxy
Statement. 

    The executive officers of the Company, who are elected by and serve at the
discretion of the Board of Directors, are as follows:

                NAME     AGE         POSITION WITH THE COMPANY
                ----     ---         -------------------------
 Roger D. Emerick            57   Chairman of the Board and Chief 
                                  Executive Officer
 Hsui-Sheng (Way) Tu         39   President
 Henk J. Evenhuis            53   Executive Vice President, Finance, and 
                                  Chief Financial Officer
 Alexander M. Voshchenkov    51   Vice President and Chief Technical Officer
 Raymond L. Degner           52   Senior Vice President
 Thomas O. Yep               57   Senior Vice President
 Robert C. Fink              61   Senior Vice President
 Rick Friedman               39   Vice President
 George R Canavan            49   Vice President
 Richard H. Lovgren          42   Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

    Roger D. Emerick joined the Company in 1982 as President, Chief Executive 
Officer and a Director.  In 1984, he was elected Chairman of the Board of 
Directors.  Mr. Emerick is currently a director Electroglas, Inc., Brooks 
Automation, Inc., Integrated Process Equipment Corp., and Semiconductor 
Equipment and Materials International (SEMI).  From 1980 to 1982, he was 
Senior Vice President of Optical Specialties, Inc. which markets automated 
visual wafer inspection equipment for the semiconductor industry. 

    Hsui-Sheng (Way) Tu joined the Company in 1983 and has held various
positions with the Company. In fiscal 1996, Mr. Tu was named President of Lam
Research Corporation. In 1994, Mr. Tu was named Vice President of the Oxide Etch
Business Unit. In 1992, he was named Vice President of Asian Operations. Before
joining the Company, Mr. Tu was Process Engineering Supervisor for Fairchild
Semiconductor. 

    Henk J. Evenhuis joined the Company in 1987 as Vice President of Finance
and Administration and Chief Financial Officer and was named Senior Vice
President of Finance in 1988.  In fiscal 1996, Mr. Evenhuis was named Executive
Vice President of the Company. Mr. Evenhuis is currently a director of Credence
Systems Corporation, a test equipment manufacturer. Before joining the Company
and since 1986, Mr. Evenhuis was Vice President of Finance and Administration
and Chief Financial Officer for Corvus Systems Inc.  He was Vice President of
Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of Trimedia Corporation
from 1985, until Trimedia was acquired by Xidex Corporation in 1986. 

    Alexander M. Voshchenkov, Ph.D., joined the Company in 1993 as  Vice
President and Chief Technical Officer. Before joining the Company and since
1972, Dr. Voshchenkov was a Member of the Technical Staff at AT&T Bell Labs,




serving in various research and managerial positions.  His most recent position
was as Supervisor of the High Speed Electronics Department.  
    
    Raymond L. Degner, Ph.D., joined the Company in 1984 as Vice President of
Engineering. In August 1996, he was named Senior Vice President of Etch
Products. In January 1992, Dr. Degner was appointed Vice President of the Poly
Etch Business Unit. In 1989 he was named Vice President of Research and
Development. From 1983 to 1984, he served as Director of Development for Silicon
Valley Group, a semiconductor equipment manufacturer. 

    Thomas O. Yep, Ph.D., joined the Company in 1985 as Director of Process
Technology, and in 1989 was named Vice President of Process Technology.  In 
August 1996, he was named to Senior Vice President of the CVD Products and
Japan. In February 1992, he was named Vice President of the Metal Etch Business
Unit.  Before joining the Company and since 1980, he served as Manager for the
plasma etch and thin film program at Intel Corporation.  From 1969 to 1980,
Dr. Yep served as solid-state physicist at Varian Central Research.

    Robert C. Fink joined the Company in 1993 as Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer.  In August 1996 he was named Senior Vice President of
Corporate Support.  In 1995 he was named Senior Vice President of Corporate
Development. Mr. Fink is currently a director of SEMI/SEMATECH and Consilium
Inc. Before joining the Company and since 1988, Mr. Fink served as President of
Drytek, Inc., a former subsidiary of General Signal Corporation.  From 1984 to
1988, he was Director of VLSI Operations (North America) for ITT Corporation's
Semiconductor Division.  Prior to ITT, Mr. Fink served 12 years with General
Instrument Corporation's Microelectronics Division, serving most recently as
Director of Worldwide Manufacturing Resources.

    Rick Friedman joined the Company in 1993 as director of strategic
development in Lam's Wilmington, Massachusetts facility. In February 1996,
he was promoted to Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Service. In 1995, he
was promoted to Vice President of North America Sales and Service. Prior to that
he was Director of Western Region Sales and Service. Before joining Lam he held
various positions at Drytek, Inc. (mid 1980's to 1993). His most recent
position at Drytek, Inc. was North American sales manager.

    George Canavan joined the Company in December 1994 as Director of Business
Development for the Oxide Etch Business Unit. In August 1996, he was named to
Vice President of Marketing. In December 1995, he was promoted to Vice President
of Oxide Etch Business Unit. Prior to joining Lam, Mr. Canavan spent three years
at Applied Materials, Inc. as global marketing manager and two years as Vice 
President of Sales and Marketing at ADVANTAGE Production Technology Inc. 
Prior to that he held various marketing positions at Applied Materials, Inc., 
and engineering and operations positions at Amdahl Corporation and National 
Semiconductor Corp.

    Richard H. Lovgren joined the Company in 1995 as Vice President, General
Counsel and Corporate Secretary.  Before joining the Company and since 1979, Mr.
Lovgren held various legal positions at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.  His most
recent position at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. was Director and Deputy General
Counsel.
    
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Executive Compensation and Other
Information." 

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Election of Directors" and
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management." 

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions."





                                       PART IV






                              LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

                            INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


                        INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                           


* Incorporated by reference to the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders.







                                      SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                             LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

                             By     /s/ ROGER D. EMERICK  

 

                             Roger D. Emerick,
                                  CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
                                  OFFICER (PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

Dated: September  23, 1996






                                  POWER OF ATTORNEY

    KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints Roger D. Emerick and Henk J. Evenhuis, jointly
and severally, his attorneys-in-fact, each with the power of substitution, for
him in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Report of
Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his
substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue thereof. 

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.






                  SCHEDULE II  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                               LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

                                     ADDITIONS


- - -----------

(1) Costs incurred for warranty repair and/or product improvements during this
year.

(2) Included in the Balance Sheet under the caption "Accrued expenses and other
liabilities."

(3) Represents specific customer accounts written off.

(4) Includes $236,000 related to the accounts receivable of Drytek, Inc.
acquired July 1, 1993 and $247,000 reclassification of reserve which was
included in a liability account at June 30, 1993.




                               LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
                              ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                       FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1996
                                    EXHIBIT INDEX
 EXHIBIT      DESCRIPTION
 -------      -----------
3.1(20)       Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended.
3.2(1)        ByLaws of the Registrant.
4.1(2)        Amended 1981 Incentive Stock Option Plan and Forms of Stock Option
              Agreements.
4.2(2)        Amended 1984 Incentive Stock Option Plan and Forms of Stock Option
              Agreements.
4.3(22)       Amended 1984 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and Form of Subscription
              Agreement.
4.4(22)       Amended 1991 Stock Option Plan and Forms of Stock Option 
              Agreements.
4.5           1996 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Plan
10.1(3)       Lease dated November 10, 1986 between the Registrant and Northport
              Associates No. 17.
10.2(1)       Amendments to lease dated November 10, 1986 between the 
              Registrant and Northport Associates No. 17.
10.3(4)       Form of Indemnification Agreement.
10.4(9)       Lease agreements dated January 1, 1990 between the Registrant and
              Aetna Life Insurance Company.
10.5(5)       Agreements dated July 6, 1988 between the Registrant and Sumitomo
              Metal Industries, Ltd.
10.7(5)       Roger D. Emerick Promissory Note and Deed of Trust.
10.8(7)       Patent Purchase and Sale Agreement dated February 22, 1989 
              between the Registrant and The Perkin-Elmer Corporation.
10.9(6)       Acquisition Agreement dated June 7, 1989 among the Registrant,
              Monkowski-Rhine, Incorporated and the shareholders of Monkowski-
              Rhine, Incorporated.
10.10(6)      Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated May 18, 1989 between the
              Registrant and Sumitomo Metal Industries, Ltd.
10.12(8)      ECR Technology License Agreement and Rainbow Technology License
              Agreement by and between Registrant and Sumitomo Metal 
              Industries, Ltd.
10.13(10)     Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement dated March 28,
              1991 between First Interstate Bank, Silicon Valley Bank and Lam 
              Research Corporation.
10.14(11)     Lease agreement dated July 24, 1991 between the Registrant and
              Northport Associates No. 18
10.15(12)     Technology Licensing Agreement dated October 25, 1991 between the
              Registrant and International Business Machines Corporation.
10.16(13)     License Agreement effective January 1, 1992 between the
              Registrant and Tokyo Electron Limited.
10.18(14)     Business Sales Agreement dated June 21, 1993 by and among Lam
              Research Corporation, Drytek Incorporated, and General Signal 
              Corporation.
10.19(15)     Deferred Compensation Agreement with Roger D. Emerick.
10.20(17)     Credit Agreement dated June 24, 1994 between Lam Research
              Corporation and ABN Amro Bank
10.21(17)     Credit Agreement dated July 22, 1994 between Lam Research
              Corporation and Union Bank
10.22(16)     Trust Indenture
10.25(19)     Receivables Purchase Agreement between Lam Research Corporation
              and ABN-AMRO Bank N.V., Cayman Islands Branch
10.26(20)     Amendment to Receivables Purchase Agreement between Lam Research
              Corporation and ABN-AMRO Bank N.V., Cayman Islands Branch
10.27(20)     Receivables Purchase Agreement between Lam Research Corporation
              and ABN-AMRO Bank N.V., Tokyo Branch
10.28(20)     Guaranty of Supplemental Receivables Purchase Agreement between
              Lam Research Corporation and ABN-AMRO Bank N.V., Tokyo Branch 
              dated June 28, 1995
10.29(22)     Credit Agreement Between Lam Research Corporation and ABN-AMRO
              Bank N.V. dated December 20, 1995
10.30(23)     Operating Lease Agreement Between Lam Research Corporation and
              the Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited dated March 27, 1996
10.31         Term Loan Agreement between The Sakura Bank and Lam Research Co. 
              Ltd. dated June 26, 1996






10.32         The Continuing Guaranty between The Sakura Bank Ltd. and Lam 
              Research Corporation dated June 26, 1996

11.1          Computation of Earnings Per Share
13.1          Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended June 30, 1996 
              (to be deemed filed only to the extent required by the instruction
              to exhibits for reports on Form 10-K
21            Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
23            Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.
24            Power of Attorney (see page 17).
27            Financial Data Schedule
- - -------
(1)     Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement 
on Form 8-B filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 11, 
1990. 

(2)     Incorporated by reference to Post Effective Amendment No. 1 to the 
Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-32160) filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission on May 10, 1990. 

(3)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended December 28, 1986. 

(4)     Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 3, 1988. 

(5)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1988. 

(6)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1989. 

(7)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 1989. 

(8)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1989. 

(9)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1990. 

(10)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1991. 

(11)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1991. 

(12)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1991. 

(13)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1991. 

(14)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated 
July 1, 1993. 

(15)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993.

(16)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Registration Statement on 
Form S-3 (No. 33-61726) declared effective by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 4, 1993. 

(17)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994.

(19)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995. 

(20)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995.






(21)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995

(22)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1995. 

(23)     Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996. 





- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                     -----------

                                       EXHIBITS
                                          TO
                                      FORM 10-K

                                     -----------

                               LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------



