
10-K
10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

       /X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
            OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
            FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1995

       / /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
            OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



                            ------------------------

                            LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (510) 659-0200

                            ------------------------

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                    COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.001 PER SHARE
                6% CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES DUE 2003

                            ------------------------

    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the Registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes _X_ No ____

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/

    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant,  based on the  average of the  closing price of  the Common Stock on
September 1, 1995, as reported by  the Nasdaq National Market was  approximately
$1,084,494,000.  Shares of Common Stock held by each officer and director and by
each person  who owns  5% or  more of  the outstanding  Common Stock  have  been
excluded  from  this  computation in  that  such  persons may  be  deemed  to be
affiliates.  This  determination  of  affiliate  status  is  not  necessarily  a
conclusive determination for other purposes.

    As of September 1, 1995, the Registrant had outstanding 27,320,607 shares of
Common Stock.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1995 (1995 Annual Report to Stockholders) are incorporated by reference into
Parts I, II and IV of this Form 10-K Report.

    Parts of Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held on October 26, 1995 are incorporated by reference to Part III of this
Form  10-K Report. (The Compensation Committee  Report and the stock performance
graph of  the Registrant's  Proxy Statement  are expressly  not incorporated  by
reference herein.)

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
THE COMPANY

    Lam   Research  Corporation  designs,  manufactures,  markets  and  services
semiconductor  processing  equipment  used  in  the  fabrication  of  integrated
circuits.  Lam is recognized by its customers worldwide as a leading supplier of
semiconductor production equipment. The Company's  products are used to  deposit
special films on a silicon wafer (deposition) and selectively etch away portions
of  various films  (etch) to create  an integrated circuit.  Deposition and etch
processes, which are repeated numerous  times during the fabrication cycle,  are
required to manufacture every semiconductor device produced today.

    The  Company currently sells a broad range  of plasma (dry) etch products to
address specific  applications,  including the  AutoEtch-Registered  Trademark-,
Rainbow-TM-,  and TCP-TM- (Transformer Coupled Plasma-TM-) product lines. In the
deposition market, Lam offers  its Epic-TM- high  density plasma (HDP)  chemical
vapor  deposition (CVD)  system, which addresses  advanced intermetal dielectric
applications, and  its Integrity-Registered  Trademark-  low pressure  (LP)  CVD
system,   a  fully  automated   batch  CVD  system   for  interlevel  dielectric
applications.

PRODUCTS

    Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process steps that
result in the simultaneous creation  of many individual semiconductor  circuits.
The  basic  steps include  deposition,  photolithography, etching,  assembly and
testing. Lam's products are used in the deposition and etching process steps  of
semiconductor  device manufacturing and are  available as stand-alone systems or
on the  Company's  multichamber  Alliance-TM-  platform.  Lam  incorporates  its
interactive  control  system  software,  Envision-TM-,  for  advanced production
management on each of its systems.

    ETCH PRODUCTS

    The etch process defines line-widths  and other feature sizes on  integrated
circuits. Plasma etching, a dry etch technique, was developed to meet the demand
for  device  geometries  with  line-widths smaller  than  three  microns. Plasma
etching uses ionized gases  that chemically react  with unprotected portions  of
the  wafer to produce finely etched features that form the lines and patterns of
the integrated circuit.

    Today manufacturers  of advanced  integrated circuits  require etch  systems
that  can produce line-widths  as small as 0.25  micron (approximately 1/300 the
thickness of a human  hair) and in  the future are  expected to require  systems
capable  of producing  devices with feature  sizes smaller than  0.10 micron. In
addition, advanced manufacturing facilities are producing integrated circuits on
wafers of 150 or  200 mm (6 or  8 inches) in diameter,  and wafer diameters  are
expected  to  increase to  300  mm (12  inches)  by 1998.  To  accommodate these
decreasing   line-widths   and   increasing   wafer   diameters,   manufacturers
increasingly require more precise control over the etching process.


    Lam's  family of etch  systems incorporates plasma  technologies designed to
meet both current and future device requirements. In the fiscal years ended June
30, 1995,  1994  and 1993,  sales  of  the Company's  etch  systems  contributed
approximately 77%, 78% and 78% of the Company's total revenues, respectively.

    AUTOETCH.   The  AutoEtch family  was Lam's  initial product  line, with the
first AutoEtch product sold in January 1982. The AutoEtch product line  includes
the  490, 590 and  690 series for  etching polysilicon, oxide  and aluminum film
applications, respectively. Although the AutoEtch  series is more than  fourteen
years  old,  continued improvements  in  both reliability  and  performance have
enabled Lam to continue to offer it as a suitable product for film  applications
involving  line-widths of 0.8 micron or greater and wafer sizes of six inches or
smaller. In addition, Lam offers the service of refurbishing or  remanufacturing
AutoEtch systems.

    RAINBOW.   The first Rainbow etch system was introduced in 1987. The Rainbow
series of products addresses processes that utilize wafer sizes up to 200mm  and
feature  sizes as small  as 0.35 micron.  The Rainbow product  line includes the
Rainbow 4400,  4500,  4600  and  4700 series  for  etching  polysilicon,  oxide,
aluminum  and  tungsten  films,  respectively.  These  systems  are  designed to
accommodate evolving customer needs through hardware and process enhancements.

    The Rainbow product  series incorporates  a number of  unique features  that
offer  semiconductor  manufacturers  improved etch  capability,  reliability and
performance.  These  features  include  a  patented  wafer  handling  system,  a
proprietary  source for generating stable plasma,  and an overall product design
for which Lam has  received industry awards for  quality and reliability.  These
and   other  features  of  the  Rainbow  product  are  designed  to  enable  the
semiconductor manufacturer to  reduce wafer  particle contamination  to a  level
that  exceeds industry standards, and to improve etch selectivity and uniformity
while maintaining profile control and process flexibility.

    TCP.  Lam's TCP  product line of high  density, low pressure systems,  which
was  introduced in  late 1992,  incorporates the  Company's patented Transformer
Coupled Plasma-TM-  source  technology  for  etching  0.35  micron  and  smaller
geometries.  The Company  currently offers  the TCP  9600 series  for metal etch
applications  and  the  TCP  9400  series  for  polysilicon  and  polycide  etch
applications.  These  systems are  currently used  to produce  a broad  range of
advanced logic and memory devices and the Company believes these products  offer
technological capability to enable manufacturers to produce the next generations
of  advanced devices.  The TCP series  operates at lower  pressures for improved
pattern transfer control and  higher plasma density for  higher etch rates  with
independent  power control to  the lower electrode,  which improves etch results
across a wider process window. The TCP  system is designed to offer customers  a
reliable, lower cost of ownership solution to their advanced needs.

    OXIDE 9500.  The Oxide 9500 is a next-generation oxide etch system developed
to  address 0.35 micron and smaller geometries. This product, which incorporates
the Company's technology with certain technology obtained in connection with the
Drytek acquisition (See Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements included
in Item 8) onto  the standard Rainbow platform,  is designed to offer  customers
high  reliability and  lower cost  of ownership.  The Company  began selling the
Oxide 9500 system in fiscal 1995.

    DEPOSITION PRODUCTS

    Chemical vapor deposition (CVD) involves the  deposition of thin films on  a
silicon wafer by exposing the wafer to various gases containing the materials to
be  deposited.  Films are  deposited to  form  both interconnect  and dielectric
layers of  an integrated  circuit.  The metal  interconnect layer  is  typically
deposited  on the  wafer surface by  a sputtering process  to provide electrical
connection between the  various circuit  elements, and the  dielectric layer  is
deposited  on  top  of  the  interconnect layer  by  CVD  to  provide electrical
insulation between the interconnect  layers. To increase circuit  functionality,
manufacturers  have designed circuits  with multilayer interconnections (stacked
levels  of  wiring  separated  by  insulating  dielectric  layers)  using  lower
resistivity materials for improved


device  performance. Multiple levels of  interconnect allow the circuit elements
to be moved closer  together, further increasing the  density of the  integrated
circuit.  Current state-of-the-art  devices may have  as many as,  or more than,
five interconnect and dielectric layers on the integrated circuit. Lam currently
manufactures two  dielectric  layer  deposition  products,  Epic  and  Integrity
systems, to address advanced multilevel films.

    EPIC.   Lam introduced its Epic high density plasma (HDP) CVD system in July
1993. The Epic system incorporates electron cyclotron resonance (ECR) technology
to form a  high-density, low-pressure plasma.  Its ability to  deposit and  etch
simultaneously an intermetal dielectric film enables it to fill gaps as small as
0.35  micron and  below and to  generate a  film that is  easily planarized. The
resulting film exhibits superior electrical qualities and significantly  reduces
the  need  for additional  chemical mechanical  polishing. The  Epic technology,
available on Lam's  Alliance platform,  has been installed  at several  customer
sites   and  is  currently  being  used   for  production  of  certain  advanced
microprocessors and in device development programs.

    INTEGRITY.   Integrity is  a low  pressure (LP)  CVD system  for  depositing
advanced interlevel dielectric films. This system utilizes a patented integrated
process  design for flowing gases rapidly over the wafer, forming films that are
highly uniform and planar to provide improved electrical performance.  Integrity
has  been installed at  several customer sites  and is currently  being used for
production of semiconductor devices and in device development programs.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    The market for  semiconductor capital  equipment is  characterized by  rapid
technological change. The Company believes that continued and timely development
of  new products and enhancements  to existing products are  necessary for it to
maintain  its  competitive   position.  Accordingly,  the   Company  devotes   a
significant  portion of  its personnel and  financial resources  to research and
development (R&D) programs and  seeks to maintain  close relationships with  its
customers to be responsive to their product needs.

    The  Company's  net R&D  expenses during  fiscal 1995,  1994 and  1993, were
approximately $127.8 million, $76.3 million and $43.9 million, respectively, and
represented 15.8%,  15.5% and  16.6% of  total revenue,  respectively. Such  R&D
expenses were net of third party funding, from SEMATECH, an industry consortium,
the  United  States  Display  Consortium  (USDC),  and  customers,  representing
approximately $2.6 million, $1.8  million and $1.6  million during fiscal  1995,
1994  and 1993, respectively. Such expenditures were used for the development of
new products and film  applications, and the  continued enhancement of  existing
products.  Current  projects  include  the  development  of  advanced  etch  and
deposition products.

    In June 1994, the Company received a two year contract from the USDC for the
development of  an etch  system, based  on the  Company's TCP  technology.  This
system  will be designed  for use in  the manufacture of  large scale flat panel
displays, for several  new technologies including  active matrix liquid  crystal
displays  (AMLCDs)  and Field  Emission Displays  (FEDs).  Included in  the $2.6
million of third  party funded R&D  for fiscal  1995 was $1.2  million from  the
USDC.

    The  Company expects to continue to invest  heavily in R&D. The Company also
must manage product transitions successfully,  as introductions of new  products
could  adversely affect  sales of existing  products. There can  be no assurance
that future technologies, processes or product developments will not render  the
Company's product offerings obsolete or that the Company will be able to develop
and  introduce  new  products  or  enhancements  to  its  existing  products and
processes in a  timely manner  which satisfy  customer needs  or achieve  market
acceptance.  The failure to do so could adversely affect the Company's business.
Furthermore, if the  Company is not  successful in the  development of  advanced
process equipment for manufacturers with whom it has formed strategic alliances,
its  ability  to sell  its products  to those  manufacturers would  be adversely
affected. In addition, in connection with  the development of the Company's  new
products, the Company invests in


high levels of pre-production inventory, and the failure to complete development
and  commercialization of these new products in  a timely manner could result in
inventory obsolescence, which could reduce the Company's financial results.

MARKETING, SALES AND SERVICE

    The Company's marketing and sales efforts are focused on building  long-term
relationships  with  its customers.  These efforts  are supported  by a  team of
product marketing managers,  sales personnel  and process  engineers that  works
closely with individual customers to find solutions to their process challenges.
After-sales  support is also an essential element of the Company's marketing and
sales program. The Company  maintains an ongoing  support relationship with  its
customers  and  has an  extensive network  of field  service personnel  in place
across the  United States,  Europe, Japan  and Asia  Pacific. In  addition,  the
Company  maintains an in-house group of highly skilled applications engineers to
respond to customer  process needs worldwide  when a higher  level of  technical
expertise  is required. The Company believes that its extensive support programs
and close  working  relationships  with  its customers  give  it  a  competitive
advantage.  The Company  also believes that,  by assisting its  customers in the
development of their  advanced manufacturing processes,  the customers are  less
likely to change equipment vendors.

    The  Company has 30 sales and  support centers located throughout the United
States, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific through which direct sales personnel and
independent sales representatives sell and  service the Company's products.  The
Company  expanded its sales and  support offices in Japan  to support the direct
sales efforts there which began in October 1994. More recently, the Company  has
increased  that effort by furthering its  direct sales and service capability in
Japan to directly market and support its advanced etch products. The Company now
offers its customers a comprehensive, two-year warranty package on all  released
products with 24 hour, seven days a week service.

    In  Japan,  the  Company  has  licensing  arrangements  with  Sumitomo Metal
Industries,  Ltd.  (Sumitomo)  and   Tokyo  Electron  Limited  (TEL).   Sumitomo
manufactures, sells and distributes certain of the Company's Rainbow products to
specific  customers in Japan.  TEL has a non-exclusive  license to sell products
incorporating certain features  of Lam's  proprietary etch  technology. In  June
1991,  the  Company  opened the  Lam  Technology  Center near  Tokyo,  Japan, to
establish a  presence  in Japan  and  to  assist Sumitomo  in  serving  Japanese
customers. In May 1993, Lam completed its advanced development and demonstration
laboratory  in  Sagamihara,  Japan,  which  allows  customers  to  evaluate  the
Company's recently  introduced  advanced  technology products.  The  Company  is
currently expanding in Japan by building a third floor on this existing building
and is in the design stage of a second facility in Sagamihara.

    Export  sales accounted for approximately  38%, 40% and 40%  of net sales in
fiscal 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Export sales consist of sales from the
Company's U.S.  operating  subsidiary  to  nonaffiliated  customers  in  foreign
countries.  The Company anticipates  that export sales  will continue to account
for a significant portion of its net sales. Additionally, the Company  continues
to  expand  its  international  operations  including  expansion  of  its  Japan
operations and the opening of a manufacturing facility in Korea in July 1995. As
a result, a significant  portion of the Company's  sales and operations will  be
subject  to certain risks, including tariffs and other barriers, difficulties in
staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations, difficulties  in
managing  distributors, potentially adverse tax consequences and the possibility
of difficulty in accounts receivable collection. There can be no assurance  that
any  of these factors will  not have a material  adverse affect on the Company's
business, financial condition and results of operations.

CUSTOMERS

    The  Company's  customers   include  most  of   the  leading   semiconductor
manufacturers  worldwide. Revenue from  Intel accounted for 11%,  14% and 15% of
total revenue for the  years ended June 30,  1995, 1994 and 1993,  respectively.
Revenue from Motorola accounted for 10% of total revenue for the year ended June
30, 1994.


    The   Company's   business  depends   upon   the  capital   expenditures  of
semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated
market  demand  for  integrated  circuits  and  products  utilizing   integrated
circuits.  No assurance  can be given  that the Company's  revenue and operating
results will  not  be  adversely  affected if  downturns  in  the  semiconductor
industry occur.

BACKLOG

    The Company schedules production of its systems based upon order backlog and
customer  commitments. The Company includes in  backlog orders for which written
authorizations have been accepted and shipment  dates have been assigned. As  of
June  30, 1995, the Company's order backlog was approximately $252.6 million. As
of June 30, 1994, the Company's order backlog was approximately $145.9  million.
All  orders are  subject to cancellation  by the customer  with limited penalty.
Because of orders received  for systems to  be shipped in  the same quarter  and
possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, the
Company's backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual
sales for any succeeding period.

MANUFACTURING

    The  Company maintains facilities  at four locations  in Fremont, California
and one location in  Wilmington, Massachusetts for the  manufacture of its  etch
and  deposition products. The  Company completed, in  July 1995, a manufacturing
facility in CheonAn, Korea, outside of Seoul. The Company's Korean manufacturing
facility may experience difficulties in management, procurement, production  and
staffing. There can be no assurances that these factors will not have an adverse
affect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

    The  Company's manufacturing  activities consist  of assembling  and testing
components and subassemblies  that are  then integrated  into finished  systems.
Once  the manufacturing department has completed final testing of all electronic
and electromechanical subassemblies that make up one of the Company's  products,
the  completed  system is  process  tested. Stringent  cleanliness  controls are
present throughout  the  manufacturing,  process, and  testing  areas  of  these
facilities to reduce particle contamination. Much of the assembly and testing of
the  Company's products is  conducted in cleanroom  environments where personnel
are properly clothed to  reduce particulate contamination.  Prior to shipping  a
completed system, the customer's engineers may perform acceptance tests at Lam's
facility,  using the customer's  own wafers. After  passing the acceptance test,
the system  is  vacuum-bagged  in  a  cleanroom  environment  and  prepared  for
shipment.

    The  Company is subject to a  variety of governmental regulations related to
the discharge or disposal of  toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous  chemicals
used in the manufacturing process. The Company believes that it is in compliance
with  these regulations  and that  it has  obtained all  necessary environmental
permits to conduct its business, which permits generally relate to the  disposal
of  hazardous wastes. Nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future
regulations could result in  fines being imposed on  the Company, suspension  of
production  or  cessation  of  operations. Such  regulations  could  require the
Company to acquire significant equipment or to incur substantial other  expenses
to  comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by the Company to control
the use  of, or  adequately  restrict the  discharge  or disposal  of  hazardous
substances could subject the Company to future liabilities.

EMPLOYEES

    As  of  September 1,  1995, the  Company  had approximately  3,600 full-time
employees. None of the  Company's employees is represented  by a union, and  the
Company has never experienced a work stoppage. Management considers its employee
relations  to be  satisfactory. In  addition, each  employee of  the Company has
signed agreements to maintain the  confidentiality of the Company's  proprietary
information, and most key employees have stock or stock option arrangements with
the Company that provide for the vesting of their interests over several years.


COMPETITION

    The  semiconductor processing equipment industry  is highly competitive. The
Company faces substantial competition throughout the world. The Company believes
that, to remain competitive, it will require significant financial resources  to
offer  a  broad range  of  products, to  maintain  customer service  and support
centers worldwide, and  to invest  in product and  process R&D.  Certain of  the
Company's   existing  and  potential   competitors  have  substantially  greater
financial resources, more  extensive engineering,  manufacturing, marketing  and
customer  service and support  capabilities as well  as greater name recognition
than the Company. The Company expects its competitors to continue to improve the
design and performance of their current products and processes and to  introduce
new  products and processes with improved price and performance characteristics.
If the Company's  competitors enter  into strategic  relationships with  leading
semiconductor  manufacturers  covering etch  or  deposition products  similar to
those  sold  by  the  Company,  its  ability  to  sell  its  products  to  those
manufacturers  could be adversely  affected. No assurance can  be given that the
Company will continue to compete successfully in the United States or worldwide.

    Significant competitive factors  in the etch  equipment market include  etch
quality,  repeatability, process capability and flexibility, and overall cost of
ownership, including  reliability,  software  automation,  throughput,  customer
support  and  system  price.  Although the  Company  believes  that  it competes
favorably with  respect to  each  of these  factors,  the Company's  ability  to
compete  successfully in this  market will depend upon  its ability to introduce
product enhancements  and  new products  on  a timely  basis.  There can  be  no
assurance  that the Company will continue to compete successfully in the future.
In the  etch equipment  market, the  Company's primary  competitors are  Applied
Materials, Inc., TEL, and Hitachi Ltd.

    Significant  competitive factors in the  deposition equipment market include
film quality, flow  uniformity, contamination control,  temperature control  and
overall  cost of  ownership, including  throughput, system  reliability, cost of
consumables, system  price and  customer support.  In the  deposition  equipment
market,  the principal suppliers of equipment are Applied Materials, Inc., Canon
Sales Co. Inc., Novellus Systems, Inc. and Watkins-Johnson Company.

PATENTS AND LICENSES

    The Company has  a policy  of seeking  patents on  inventions governing  new
products  and processes developed  as part of  its ongoing research, engineering
and manufacturing  activities.  The  Company holds  United  States  patents  and
corresponding  foreign  patents covering  various aspects  of its  products. The
Company believes that  the duration of  its patents generally  exceeds the  life
cycles  of the technologies disclosed and  claimed therein. The Company believes
that although the patents it  holds and may obtain will  be of value, they  will
not  determine  the  Company's  success,  which  depends  principally  upon  its
engineering, marketing,  service  and  manufacturing  skills.  However,  in  the
absence  of patent protection, the Company  may be vulnerable to competitors who
attempt to  imitate  the  Company's  products  or  processes  and  manufacturing
techniques and processes. In addition, other companies and inventors may receive
patents  that contain claims applicable to the Company's products and processes.
The sale  of  the Company's  products  covered  by such  patents  could  require
licenses that may not be available on acceptable terms.

    From  time to time, the  Company is notified that it  may be in violation of
certain patents. In such cases, the Company's policy is to defend against claims
or negotiate licenses where considered appropriate. However, no assurance can be
given that  it  will  be  able to  obtain  necessary  licenses  on  commercially
reasonable terms. In October 1993, Varian Associates, Inc. (Varian) brought suit
against  the Company in  the United States District  Court, Northern District of
California,  seeking  monetary  damages  and  injunctive  relief  based  on  the
Company's  alleged infringement of certain patents  held by Varian. See "Item 3.
Legal Proceedings."


    In December 1986, the Company entered into a non-exclusive license agreement
with TEL licensing the  Company's AutoEtch technology  and chamber design.  This
license expired in December 1991, and, in January 1992, the Company entered into
a  new five year license agreement with TEL on substantially similar terms which
expires in December 1996.

    The Company has two license  agreements with Sumitomo. Under one  agreement,
Lam  granted  Sumitomo an  exclusive  license for  the  manufacture and  sale of
certain Rainbow etch systems in the Japanese market. Under the other  agreement,
Sumitomo  granted the Company an exclusive  license for the manufacture and sale
of Sumitomo's ECR CVD systems in North America and Europe.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    The Company's executive  offices and principal  manufacturing, and  research
and   development  facilities  are  located  in  twelve  buildings  in  Fremont,
California, occupying over 800,000 square  feet under leases expiring from  1995
to  2005. The Company is currently planning the expansion of its Fremont campus.
The Company also operates a  research and manufacturing facility in  Wilmington,
Massachusetts.

    In  addition,  the Company  leases office  space for  its service  and sales
personnel throughout  the United  States, Europe,  Japan and  Asia Pacific.  The
Company  completed, in  July 1995,  construction of  a manufacturing,  sales and
service facility  of 40,000  square  feet outside  of  Seoul, South  Korea.  The
Company  is currently expanding its facility in  Japan by building a third floor
on an existing  building, and is  in the design  stage of a  second facility  in
Sagamihara.

    The  Company's fiscal 1995 rental payments for the facilities occupied as of
June 30, 1995 aggregated approximately $9.5 million and are subject to  periodic
increases. The Company believes that its existing facilities are well maintained
and  in  good operating  condition. The  Company  continues to  consider leasing
additional facilities as necessary to support its expanding operations.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    In October 1993, Varian Associates,  Inc. (Varian) brought suit against  the
Company  in the United  States District Court,  Northern District of California,
seeking monetary damages and  injunctive relief based  on the Company's  alleged
infringement  of certain  patents held  by Varian.  The lawsuit  is in  the late
stages of  discovery.  The  Company  has asserted  defenses  of  invalidity  and
unenforceability  of the patents that are the subject of the lawsuit, as well as
noninfringement of such patents by  the Company's products. While litigation  is
subject to inherent uncertainties and no assurance can be given that the Company
will  prevail in such litigation or will  obtain a license under such patents on
commercially reasonable  terms or  at all  if such  patents are  held valid  and
infringement  by the  Company's products, the  Company believes  that the Varian
lawsuit will not have  a material adverse effect  on the Company's  consolidated
financial statements.

    In  addition, the Company is  from time to time  notified by various parties
that it  may be  in violation  of  certain patents.  In such  cases, it  is  the
Company's   intention  to  seek  negotiated  licenses  where  it  is  considered
appropriate. The outcome  of these  matters will not,  in management's  opinion,
have  a  material  impact  on  the  Company's  consolidated  financial position,
operating results or cash flows.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    Not applicable.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

    The information required by  this Item is incorporated  by reference to  the
Company's  1995  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  under  the  heading "Selected
Financial Data" on page 16.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The information required by  this Item is incorporated  by reference to  the
Company's  1995  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  under  the  heading "Selected
Financial Data" on page 16.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

    The information required by  this Item is incorporated  by reference to  the
Company's  1995 Annual  Report to  Stockholders under  the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis  of Financial  Condition and Results  of Operations"  on
pages 17-19.

ITEM 8.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The Consolidated Financial Statements required by this Item are incorporated
by reference to pages 20-32 of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders.
The  unaudited quarterly results of operations  are incorporated by reference to
page 16 of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    (Not applicable.)


                                    PART III

    Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Report in that
the Registrant will file a definitive proxy statement within 120 days after  the
end  of its fiscal year  pursuant to Regulation 14A  (the "Proxy Statement") for
its Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  to  be held  October  26,  1995  and  the
information   included  therein  is  incorporated   herein  by  reference.  (The
Compensation  Committee  Report   and  the  stock   performance  graph  of   the
Registrant's  Proxy  Statement  are  expressly  not  incorporated  by  reference
herein.)

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The information concerning the Company's directors required by this Item  is
incorporated  by reference  to "Election  of Directors"  in the  Company's Proxy
Statement.

    The executive officers of the Company, who  are elected by and serve at  the
discretion of the Board of Directors, are as follows:



    Roger  D. Emerick joined  the Company in 1982  as President, Chief Executive
Officer and  a  Director. In  1984  he was  elected  Chairman of  the  Board  of
Directors.  Mr. Emerick  is currently  a director  of Electroglas,  Inc., Brooks
Automation, Inc., and IPEC. From 1980 to  1982, he was Senior Vice President  of
Optical  Specialties,  Inc.  which  markets  automated  visual  wafer inspection
equipment for the semiconductor industry.

    Henk J. Evenhuis joined the Company in 1987 as Vice President of Finance and
Administration and Chief Financial Officer  and was named Senior Vice  President
of  Finance in 1988.  Mr. Evenhuis is  currently a director  of Credence Systems
Corporation. Before joining the  Company and since 1986,  Mr. Evenhuis was  Vice
President  of Finance and Administration and  Chief Financial Officer for Corvus
Systems Inc.  He was  Vice President  of Finance  and Administration  and  Chief
Financial Officer of Trimedia Corporation from 1985, until Trimedia was acquired
by Xidex Corporation in 1986.

    Alexander  M.  Voshchenkov,  Ph.D.,  joined  the  Company  in  1993  as Vice
President and  Chief Technical  Officer. Before  joining the  Company and  since
1972,  Dr. Voshchenkov was  a Member of  the Technical Staff  at AT&T Bell Labs,
serving in various research and  managerial positions. His most recent  position
was as Supervisor of the High Speed Electronics Department.

    Raymond  L. Degner, Ph.D., joined  the Company in 1984  as Vice President of
Engineering and in 1989 was named Vice President of Research and Development. In
January 1992, Dr. Degner was


appointed Vice President of the Poly Etch  Business Unit. In 1995, he was  named
Senior  Vice President for  the Poly Etch  and CVD Business  Units. From 1983 to
1984, he  served  as  Director  of  Development  for  Silicon  Valley  Group,  a
semiconductor equipment manufacturer.

    Robert  C.  Fink joined  the Company  in  1993 as  Vice President  and Chief
Operating Officer. In 1995  he was named Executive  Vice President of  Corporate
Development.  Mr. Fink  is currently  a director  of SEMI/SEMATECH  and Uniphase
Corporation. Before  joining the  Company and  since 1988,  Mr. Fink  served  as
President  of Drytek, Inc.,  a former subsidiary  of General Signal Corporation.
From 1984 to 1988, he  was Director of VLSI  Operations (North America) for  ITT
Corporation's  Semiconductor Division.  Prior to ITT,  Mr. Fink  served 12 years
with General Instrument  Corporation's Microelectronics  Division, serving  most
recently as Director of Worldwide Manufacturing Resources.

    G.  Dennis Key  joined the  Company in  1988 as  Vice President  of Domestic
Sales. In 1991,  he was appointed  Vice President of  Worldwide Sales and  Field
Operations.  Prior to joining the  Company, he served as  Area Director of Sales
with  Gemini  Research  from  1982  until  1988.  From  1980  to  1982  he   was
Manufacturing  Manager  with  Fairchild Semiconductor,  a  leading semiconductor
manufacturer.

    Richard H. Lovgren  joined the Company  in 1995 as  Vice President,  General
Counsel  and Secretary. Before  joining the Company and  since 1979, Mr. Lovgren
held various legal  positions at Advanced  Micro Devices, Inc.  His most  recent
position was Director and Deputy General Counsel.

    Larry  N. Stewart joined the Company in 1991 as Product Engineer Manager and
in 1993 was named Director of the CVD  Business Unit. In 1994 he was named  Vice
President  of the CVD  Business Unit. From  1988 until joining  the Company, Mr.
Stewart served as  Systems Engineering  Manager with Nanometrics.  From 1985  to
1988  he  was Section  Manager in  engineering for  Photolythics, a  division of
General Signal  Corporation. From  1982 until  1985 he  served as  Manufacturing
Engineering Manager for Genus, Inc.

    Hsui-Sheng  (Way)  Tu  joined  the  Company in  1983  and  has  held various
positions with  the Company.  In 1991,  he  was named  Vice President  of  Asian
Operations.  In 1994, Mr. Tu was named Vice President of the Oxide Etch Business
Unit. Before joining  the Company, Mr.  Tu was Process  Engineer Supervisor  for
Fairchild Semiconductor.

    Thomas  O. Yep,  Ph.D., joined  the Company in  1985 as  Director of Process
Technology, and  in 1989  was named  Vice President  of Process  Technology.  In
February  1992, he  was named  Vice President of  the Metal  Etch Business Unit.
Before joining the Company and since 1980,  he served as Manager for the  plasma
etch  and thin  film program at  Intel Corporation.  From 1969 to  1980, Dr. Yep
served as solid-state physicist at Varian Central Research.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The information required by  this Item is incorporated  by reference to  the
Company's  Proxy Statement under  the heading "Executive  Compensation and Other
Information."

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information required by  this Item is incorporated  by reference to  the
Company's  Proxy  Statement  under  the  heading  "Election  of  Directors"  and
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management."

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The information required by  this Item is incorporated  by reference to  the
Company's  Proxy Statement under the  heading "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions."


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K




                   LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



                     INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES




                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report  to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

                                          By ________/s/_ROGER D. EMERICK_______
                                                      Roger D. Emerick,
                                                    CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
                                                 AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                                                (PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

Dated: September 26, 1995


                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

    KNOW  ALL MEN  BY THESE PRESENTS,  that each person  whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints  Roger D. Emerick and  Henk J. Evenhuis,  jointly
and  severally, his attorneys-in-fact, each with  the power of substitution, for
him in any and  all capacities, to  sign any amendments to  this Report of  Form
10-K,  and  to file  the  same, with  exhibits  thereto and  other  documents in
connection therewith,  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission,  hereby
ratifying  and  confirming  all  that each  of  said  attorneys-in-fact,  or his
substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue thereof.

    Pursuant to the  requirements of  the Securities  Exchange Act  of 1934,  as
amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.




                 SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                            LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION




                            LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1995
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX











