ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Business

We are a leading global operator of regulated exchanges, clearing houses and listings venues, and a provider of data services for commodity and financial markets. We operate regulated marketplaces for trading and clearing a broad array of derivatives and securities contracts across major asset classes, including energy and agricultural commodities, interest rates, equities, equity derivatives, credit derivatives, bonds and currencies. We support customers from end-to-end; from pre-trade to execution, clearing, data services and technology. With global markets, data and clearing services, we are strategically located where our customers do business around the world.

Our exchanges include futures exchanges in the United States, or U.S., United Kingdom, or U.K., continental Europe, Canada and Singapore and cash equities exchanges and equity options exchanges in the U.S. We operate over-the-counter, or OTC, markets for physical energy and credit default swaps, or CDS. We operate central counterparty clearing houses serving the global derivatives markets in the U.S., U.K., continental Europe, Canada and Singapore. In addition, we offer a range of data and connectivity services to our global financial and commodity markets and clearing houses. Following our December 2015 acquisition of Interactive Data Holdings Corporation, or Interactive Data, our suite of data products includes an expanded range of fixed income pricing and reference data, analytics and trading service offerings. Through our trading, clearing, listings, data services and post-trade platforms, we bring together buyers and sellers by offering liquid markets, benchmark products, access to capital markets, information, and a range of related services to support market participants’ investing, risk management and capital raising activities.

Our business is currently conducted as a single reportable business segment and the majority of our identifiable assets are located in the U.S. and the U.K., and to a lesser extent, continental Europe, Asia, Israel and Canada. For a summary of our revenues, net assets and net property and equipment by geographic region, see note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

Derivatives Exchanges

Our derivatives markets provide a means for trading and managing risks associated with price volatility, securing physical delivery of certain commodities, as well as enabling investment, asset allocation and diversification. The majority of our commodity contract volume is settled based upon the difference between the contract price and the value of the underlying commodity at contract expiry rather than through physical delivery of the commodity or financial instrument itself (commonly referred to as cash or financially-settled). Our futures contracts are cleared through one of our central clearing houses.

We conduct our derivatives business through the following regulated exchanges:

•ICE Futures Europeis a leading exchange for futures and options contracts based on energy and agricultural commodities, interest rates, equity derivatives and emissions. Its members and market participants include many of the world’s largest financial institutions, investment fund asset managers, energy companies, commercial energy consumers and other end users. ICE Clear Europe clears contracts traded on ICE Futures Europe.

•ICE Futures U.S.is a leading global futures and options exchange that lists futures and options for agricultural and energy commodities, equity indices, currencies, credit and precious metals. ICE Clear Europe clears the energy contracts traded on ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Clear U.S. clears all other contracts traded on ICE Futures U.S.

•ICE Futures Canadais Canada’s leading agricultural futures and options exchange. It offers futures and options contracts on canola, milling wheat, durum wheat and barley. ICE Clear Canada clears contracts traded on ICE Futures Canada.

•ICE Endexis a leading continental European energy exchange providing regulated markets for natural gas and power derivatives, gas balancing markets and gas storage services and is based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. We own a majority stake of ICE Endex, with NV Netherlands Gasunie, or Gasunie, holding a minority stake. ICE Clear Europe provides clearing for ICE Endex.

•ICE Futures Singapore,formerly Singapore Mercantile Exchange, launched in November 2015 and operates futures markets in Singapore across energy, gold and foreign exchange commodities. ICE Clear Singapore provides clearing for ICE Futures Singapore.

•NYSE Amex Optionsis a U.S. equity options exchange that offers order execution through a hybrid model (both electronic and via open outcry on our trading floor adjoining the New York Stock Exchange) in approximately 2,800












options issues. In June 2015, we purchased the remaining 16% of shares outstanding from external investors and now own 100% of NYSE Amex Options.

•NYSE Arca Optionsis also a U.S. equity options exchange that offers order execution through a hybrid model, with both electronic trading and trading via our trading floor in San Francisco. NYSE Arca Options offers trading in approximately 2,900 options issues.

OTC Markets

Our OTC markets include both regulated and unregulated platforms for the execution of cleared and bilateral, or non-cleared, CDS instruments and bilateral energy contracts. ICE Swap Trade, Creditex Group and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Creditex") and Creditex Brokerage provide trade execution in our CDS business and are authorized and regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC. We list financially settled bilateral energy contracts on ICE Swap Trade and offer electronic trading on our physically settled North American natural gas, power, and global crude and refined oil products.

Clearing Houses

We operate clearing houses, each of which acts as a central counterparty (meaning we become the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer). The clearing houses provide financial security for each transaction for the duration of the position by limiting counterparty credit risk. Our clearing houses are responsible for providing clearing services to each of our futures exchanges and certain of our clearing houses clear contracts traded outside of our execution venues. Our clearing houses are:

•ICE Clear Europeclears ICE Futures Europe and ICE Endex futures contracts for interest rates, equity indices, energy and agriculture products, as well as energy futures contracts made available for trading at ICE Futures U.S. ICE Clear Europe also clears OTC European CDS instruments;

•ICE Clear U.S.clears ICE Futures U.S. soft commodity, currency, metals, credit and domestic and global equity index futures contracts;

•ICE Clear Creditclears North American, European and Emerging Market CDS instruments;

•ICE Clear Canadaclears ICE Futures Canada agricultural futures contracts;

•ICE Clear Netherlandsclears Dutch equity options; and

•ICE Clear Singaporeclears ICE Futures Singapore mini commodity contracts and foreign exchange, or FX.

We previously operated another clearing house, The Clearing Corporation, or TCC. TCC provided clearing services for ICE Futures U.S., which included mini-sized, financially settled versions of current ICE Futures U.S. contracts. TCC has ceased clearing contracts and its last clearing activity occurred on February 2, 2015. As a result of such inactivity, pursuant to CFTC regulations, TCC became a dormant derivatives clearing organization, or DCO, on February 3, 2016.

Securities Trading and Listings

We operate three securities exchanges for the trading of cash equities, including exchange traded products, or ETPs, fixed income securities and securities options. One of the primary functions of these markets is to ensure that orders to purchase and sell securities are executed in a fair, orderly and efficient manner. In addition, through our listings operations, we offer corporate and ETP issuers access to the U.S. capital markets.

We conduct our securities trading and listings business through the following exchanges and marketplaces:

•The New York Stock Exchangeis a leading global cash equity exchange. It is the leading equity exchange for initial public offerings, or IPOs, globally, and enables companies seeking to raise capital to become publicly listed through the IPO process upon meeting exchange listing standards. In addition to common stocks, preferred stocks and warrants, the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE lists structured products, such as capital securities and mandatory convertible securities.

•NYSE MKT, formerly NYSE Amex and prior to that the American Stock Exchange, became part of NYSE Group, Inc., or NYSE Group, in 2008. It is our U.S. listing venue for emerging growth companies. NYSE MKT supports growth companies which benefit from a fully integrated trading platform that uses a model similar to the New York Stock Exchange. NYSE MKT provides a listing venue for a broader range of companies than are qualified for listing on the New York Stock Exchange. NYSE MKT also lists and trades securities options.












•NYSE Arcaoffers listing and trading of more than 8,000 listed securities, including listings on the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, Inc. and BATS Global Markets, Inc., or BATS. NYSE Arca is the leading listing and trading platform for ETPs, which include exchange traded funds, or ETFs and exchange traded notes. NYSE Arca also lists and trades securities options.

Data Services

Our data business currently spans nine asset classes across the eleven exchanges and six clearing houses we operate, including the NYSE Group and ICE Futures exchanges. We offer data services across all of our markets, including data services that compile, analyze and distribute data across non-exchange traded markets. The diversity and quality of our market data together with technology and connectivity, support market liquidity and price discovery. Our primary data service fees include the provision of real-time information relating to price, transaction and order data of the instruments traded on our exchanges. We also receive fees from Secured Financial Transaction Infrastructure, or SFTI, a physical network that connects our markets and other market centers to consolidated data feeds, as well as fees from analytical and valuation services. We also offer pricing and valuation services for benchmarks, ETFs and a range of financial derivatives and clearing house positions. Specifically, we administer the LIBOR, Gold Price and ICE Swap Rate (formerly known as ISDAFIX) benchmarks through ICE Benchmark Administration, or IBA.

On December 11, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Trayport and on December 14, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Interactive Data. Trayport is a software company that licenses its technology to serve exchanges, OTC brokers and traders to facilitate electronic and hybrid trade execution primarily in the energy markets. This acquisition enables us to provide new technology and software-related services to our energy customers. Interactive Data is a leading provider of financial market data, analytics and related trading solutions, and strengthens our ability to meet global demand for financial data and analysis.

We intend to continue to expand our data offerings across our asset classes, exchanges and clearing houses in order to better serve the needs of our customers. For additional information about our current data service offerings, see "Our Products and Services" below.

History

Intercontinental Exchange, Inc., through its predecessor companies, was established in May 2000. Our mission was to serve the OTC energy markets by providing a transparent, accessible, around-the-clock electronic trading platform to a previously fragmented and opaque market structure. Through the ICE platform, we offered the energy trading community price transparency, efficiency, liquidity and lower transaction costs than were available through traditional methods of trade execution, such as voice brokered or open outcry futures markets.

In June 2001, we expanded into the futures markets by acquiring ICE Futures Europe, formerly the International Petroleum Exchange of London. In 2002, we were first to develop cleared OTC energy products for the industry. In addition, ICE Data was formed in 2002 to meet the demand for market data in the energy markets. We launched ICE Clear Europe in November 2008

In November 2005, we completed our IPO on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “ICE” and have since become a member of the Russell 1000 and the S&P 500 indexes.

In January 2007, we acquired ICE Futures U.S., formerly the New York Board of Trade. Following the introduction of electronic futures trading in 2007, ICE Futures U.S. transitioned from a fully floor-based futures exchange to an electronic futures exchange. In August 2007, we acquired ICE Futures Canada, formerly the Winnipeg Commodity Exchange, which is the largest canola futures market.

In August 2008, we acquired Creditex, a leading interdealer broker for the execution and processing of credit derivatives. We launched ICE Clear Credit in March 2009. In July 2010, we acquired Climate Exchange plc, or CLE, an operator of environmental markets in the U.S. and Europe.

In March 2013, we acquired 79% of the derivatives and spot business of the energy exchange ICE Endex, formerly APX-ENDEX. The trade execution and clearing of ICE Endex derivatives products have transitioned to our trading platform and to ICE Clear Europe.

In November 2013, we acquired NYSE. This transaction added new asset classes and products to our portfolio including interest rates, commodities, equity derivatives, equity options, cash equities and the license to administer LIBOR.

In February 2014, we acquired ICE Futures Singapore and ICE Clear Singapore, formerly the Singapore Mercantile Exchange and Singapore Mercantile Exchange Clearing Corporation. In December 2014, we acquired a seventy-five percent












ownership stake in ICE Clear Netherlands, formerly Holland Clearing House, a derivatives clearing house based in Amsterdam that clears Dutch equity options. The acquisitions added a continental European and an Asian footprint to our global network of markets and clearing houses.

In October 2014, we acquired SuperDerivatives and in December 2015, we acquired Interactive Data, both leading global providers of financial market data, analytics and related solutions. Also in December 2015, we acquired Trayport, which is a software company that licenses its technology to serve brokers, exchanges and traders to facilitate electronic and hybrid trade execution primarily in the energy markets. These acquisitions are intended to accelerate our multi-asset class clearing, risk management and market data strategy. In November 2015, we launched ICE Futures Singapore and ICE Clear Singapore.



Our Competitive Strengths and Competition

Competitive Strengths

We are a leading operator of global equities, options and futures exchanges, derivative clearing houses, data services and post-trade services. We operate leading markets in the asset classes in which we compete, including securities, cash equities, equity options, futures and OTC markets. We believe our key strengths include our:

•diverse liquid, global equity and derivatives markets across 11 regulated exchanges;

•secure central counterparty clearing houses and risk management for our global markets;

•global data services including real-time data, analytics, valuation and connectivity services across multiple asset classes for futures and OTC markets;

•leading global equity listings and trading venues; and

•widely-distributed, leading edge technology for trading, clearing, data and trade processing.

Our regulated exchanges and platforms offer qualified market participants access to our markets, covering a range of categories, including interest rates, equities, energy, agricultural, metals, equity index, environmental, currencies, and U.S. equity options. By offering multiple markets and products we provide our participants with flexibility to implement their trading and risk management strategies across a variety of asset classes. We operate across multiple geographies and serve customers in dozens of countries as a result of listing products that are globally relevant.

Many of our futures contracts serve as global benchmarks for managing risk relating to exposure to price movements in the underlying products, including financial, energy and agricultural commodities. For example, we operate the leading market for trading in ICE Brent crude oil futures, as measured by the volume of contracts traded in 2015 according to the Futures Industry Association. The ICE Brent Crude futures contract is the leading benchmark for pricing light, sweet crude oil produced and consumed outside of the U.S. It is part of the Brent complex, which forms the price reference for approximately two-thirds of the world’s internationally-traded physical crude oil. Based on 2015 contract volume, approximately half of the world’s crude and refined oil futures contracts were traded through ICE Futures Europe. In 2015, open interest in Brent surpassed open interest in Nymex West Texas Intermediate, or WTI. In addition, we operate a leading market for short-term European interest rates contracts, with our principal contracts based on implied forward rates on European Money Markets Institute Euribor rates. We also offer a short-term Sterling contract based on the ICE LIBOR rate, as well as leading agricultural benchmark contracts, including sugar, cocoa, cotton, coffee and canola, which serve as global price benchmarks.

We offer a range of central clearing and related risk management services to promote the liquidity and security of our markets. The credit and performance assurance provided by our clearing houses to clearing members substantially reduces counterparty risk and is a critical component of our exchanges’ identities as reliable and secure marketplaces for global transactions. We believe the services offered by our clearing houses are a competitive advantage and attract market participants to our exchanges. Our clearing houses are designed to protect the financial integrity of our markets by maintaining collateral, facilitating payments and collections, enhancing capital efficiency and limiting counterparty credit risk.

We are a leading global data provider and offer a range of data services based on data from our exchanges, analytic, valuation and benchmark services as well as connectivity services. We acquired SuperDerivatives and Interactive Data to expand our data offerings based on rising demand for data which is being driven by regulation, market fragmentation, indexation and increased automation. We provide data to global financial institutions, commodity producers and consumers across virtually all asset classes and many of the products and services we sell are required for our clients’ business operations regardless of market volatility or shifts in business profitability levels. Our data connectivity services include the SFTI network, which we operate out of data centers in the U.S. and Europe.










We operate the leading global listings and trading venues for equities and offer our customers access to the capital markets in the U.S. Our various listing venues allow companies to list domestic and international equity securities, corporate structured products, convertible bonds, trackers and debt securities. In 2015, NYSE was the global leader in capital raising for the fifth consecutive year, with $137 billion raised in total IPO proceeds and follow-on offerings, including leading in U.S. technology company IPOs.

Our leading edge technology infrastructure provides centralized and direct access to trade execution, processing and clearing for a variety of derivatives and financial products. We operate the majority of our interest rate, energy, agricultural and financial markets on our electronic trading platforms. Our trading platforms have enabled us to attract significant liquidity from traditional market participants, as well as new market entrants seeking the access, efficiency and ease of execution offered by electronic trading. We develop and maintain our own clearing systems across our clearing houses.

Competition

The execution markets in which we operate are global and highly competitive. We face competition in all aspects of our business from a number of different enterprises, both domestic and international, including traditional exchanges, electronic trading platforms, data vendors and voice brokers. We believe we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including:

•depth and liquidity of markets;

•price transparency;

•reliability and speed of trade execution and processing;

•technological capabilities and innovation;

•breadth of products and services;

•rate and quality of new product developments;

•quality of service;

•distribution and ease of connectivity;

•mid- and back-office service offerings, including differentiated and value-added services;

•transaction costs; and

•reputation.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors, and that our deep, liquid markets, breadth of product offerings, new product development, and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services distinguish us from our competitors. We believe that in order to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to develop new and innovative products and services, enhance our technology infrastructure, maintain liquidity and offer competitive transaction costs.

In our derivatives markets, certain exchanges replicate our futures contracts. For example, CME Group competes with our exchanges on agricultural and energy commodities, currency and equity index contracts. We also compete with Nasdaq Futures, Inc., or NFX, which is an energy futures exchange operated by Nasdaq.  We compete in interest rates and equity derivatives with Eurex, which is the derivatives exchange operated by Deutsche Börse, and NLX, which is a U.K. based multi-lateral trading facility operated by Nasdaq.

In addition to competition from derivative exchanges that offer commodity products, we also face competition from other exchanges, electronic trading systems, third-party clearing houses and technology firms. Additional ventures could form, or have been formed, to provide services that could potentially compete with certain services that we provide.

We compete with voice brokers active in the credit derivatives markets, other electronic trading platforms for derivatives, clearing houses and market data vendors. ICE Swap Trade, Creditex and Creditex Brokerage compete with other swap execution facilities and large inter-dealer brokers in the credit derivatives market.

We face significant competition with respect to equities trading, and this competition is expected to remain intense. Our current and prospective competitors include regulated markets, electronic communication networks, dark pools and other alternative trading systems, market makers and other execution venues. We also face competition from large brokers and customers that may assume the role of principal and act as counterparty to orders originating from retail customers, or by matching their respective order flows through bilateral trading arrangements, including through internalization of order flow.










Our principal competitor for listings in the U.S. is Nasdaq OMX Group, Inc., or Nasdaq OMX, as well as BATS. We also face competition for foreign issuer listings from a number of stock exchanges outside the U.S., including the London Stock Exchange, Deutsche Börse, Euronext and stock exchanges in Hong Kong and Toronto. As other liquidity venues seek exchange status, we may face more competition for listings.

NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex Options face considerable competition in the equity options markets. Their principal U.S. competitors are the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., or CBOE, the International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc., BATS and Nasdaq OMX.

Competition within our Interactive Data Pricing and Reference Data business includes in-house sources, such as a firm’s trading desk, and existing information purchased or obtained for other purposes or through informal industry relationships and sources, such as broker quotes, as well as third-party information providers. The main third-party competitors with respect to our evaluated pricing and reference data offerings, as well as our trading solutions business include large global suppliers of financial and business news and financial market data such as Bloomberg L.P. and Thomson Reuters Corporation. Additionally, we have specialized competitors in structured products, derivatives and other complex securities.

Our Growth Strategy

Throughout our history, we have expanded our core exchange, clearing and data businesses both organically and through acquisitions, developed innovative new products for global markets, and provided services to a larger and more diverse participant base. In addition, we have completed a number of strategic alliances to leverage our core strengths and grow our business. We seek to advance our leadership position in our markets by focusing our efforts on the following key strategies for growth:

•expand our data offerings;

•expand on our extensive clearing, trading and risk management capabilities;

•maintain leadership in our listing businesses;

•enhance our technology infrastructure and increase distribution; and

•pursue select acquisitions and strategic relationships.

The record consolidated revenues and trading volume we achieved in 2015 reflect our focus on the implementation and execution of our long-term growth strategy.

Expand our Data Offerings

With the growth of our ICE derivatives and NYSE equity markets, we have strengthened and enhanced our data services offerings for customers. In December 2015, we acquired Interactive Data, which builds on our global market data growth strategy by expanding the markets we serve, adding technology platforms, and adding new data and valuation services. Interactive Data is one of the leading providers of financial data, serving the mutual fund, bank, asset management, hedge fund, securities and financial instrument processing and administration sectors. Interactive Data currently produces daily evaluated prices for more than 2.6 million fixed income securities and other hard-to-value instruments and has an array of additional capabilities in financial market data, analytics and related services that we intend to leverage to enable faster product development and additional data services in response to customer demand. Following this acquisition, we will be able to offer customers efficiencies in accessing data on an integrated platform while serving the growing demand for data, analysis, valuation and connectivity globally.

Also in December 2015, we acquired Trayport. Trayport is a software company that licenses its technology to serve brokers, exchanges and traders to facilitate electronic and hybrid trade execution primarily in the energy markets. This transaction enables us to provide new technology and software-related services to our energy customers.

In addition, our October 2014 acquisition of SuperDerivatives has accelerated our multi-asset class clearing, risk management and market data strategy as a leading provider of risk management analytics, financial market data and valuation services.

We will continue to look for strategic opportunities to grow our data offerings and will also continue to pursue opportunities in markets we do not currently serve.

Expand on Our Extensive Clearing, Trading and Risk Management Capabilities

By acquiring, building and maintaining our own geographically diverse clearing operations, we are able to respond to market demand for central clearing and related risk management services. We now manage all of our clearing operations, including our product development cycle and risk management systems, and are better able to introduce products and services that our customers require in a timely manner. As new markets evolve, we intend to leverage our domain knowledge in clearing to meet additional demand for clearing.










Our derivatives customer base has grown and diversified as a result of several drivers. We continue to add new participants to our markets, which bring additional demand for new products and services.  In addition, the use of hedging, trading and risk management programs by commercial enterprises continues to rise based on the availability of technology to deliver more products, as well as the security and the capital efficiencies offered by clearing. We develop new products where possible, but have also increased our capabilities through acquisitions of companies and intellectual property.

Finally, the advent of regulatory reform increasingly requires the use of clearing and related post-trade services such as independent data providers and benchmark services. We intend to continue to expand our customer base by leveraging our existing relationships and our global sales and marketing team to promote participation in our markets, and by expanding our range of products and services.

Maintain Leadership in our Listing Businesses

In our NYSE listings business, we will continue to focus on enhancing our product offerings and services to retain and attract companies of all sizes and industries to our listing venues. In 2015, demand for our listing services continued to be strong in terms of new listings and secondary offerings. A total of 115 new issuers listed their securities on NYSE markets in 2015 and there are over 2,400 total companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NYSE MKT. NYSE was the leader in capital raising in 2015 with $137 billion raised in 397 offerings. The New York Stock Exchange listed 59 IPOs in 2015 raising total IPO proceeds of $19 billion, including the largest U.S. IPO of 2015, and also led in technology IPOs for the fourth consecutive year. In the last three years, the NYSE has listed 18 of the 20 largest IPOs.

Enhance Our Technology Infrastructure and Increase Distribution

We develop and maintain our own network infrastructure, electronic trading platform and clearing systems to ensure the delivery of leading-edge technology that meets our customers’ demands for price transparency, reliability, risk management and transaction efficiency. We intend to continue to increase ease of access and connectivity with our existing and prospective market participants. We develop and maintain our trading and clearing systems, as well as many post-trade systems such as ICE Link and ICE Trade Vault, among others. We are developing a new integrated trading platform and matching engine known as NYSE Pillar for the five U.S. cash equities and equity options markets to improve performance and reduce the cost and complexity of operating multiple equity and options trading systems. We also operate the SFTI network, which connects customers to global exchanges and content service providers via dedicated data circuits.

Pursue Select Acquisitions and Strategic Relationships

As an early consolidator in global markets, we intend to continue to explore and pursue acquisitions and other strategic opportunities to strengthen our competitive position globally, broaden our product offerings and services for our customers, and support the growth of our company while maximizing shareholder value as measured by return on invested capital, earnings and cash growth. We may enter into business combinations, make acquisitions or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures or alliances, any of which may be material. In addition to growing our business, we may enter into these transactions for a variety of reasons, including leveraging our existing strengths to enter new markets, expanding our products and services, addressing underserved markets, advancing our technology, anticipating or responding to regulatory change, or taking advantage of new developments and potential changes in our industry.

Our Products and Services

The primary services we provide are trade execution, listings, price discovery and transparency, trade processing and repositories, clearing, benchmark administration and data. As a result of our acquisition of Interactive Data, we expect our market data services to become a more prominent part of our business. Trading in our regulated markets is available to our members and market participants. Once trades are executed on our derivatives platforms, they are matched and forwarded to a trade registration system that routes them to the applicable clearing house. In our clearing houses, derivatives trades are maintained by our risk management systems until the positions are settled and closed. Our exchanges are regulated and are responsible for carrying out self-regulatory functions and have governance, compliance, surveillance and market supervision functions. The following provides a summary of our products and services:

Energy Futures Contracts

We operate regulated markets for energy futures contracts and options on those contracts through our subsidiaries ICE Futures Europe, ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Singapore. Our core products include contracts based on crude and refined oil, natural gas, power, emissions, coal, freight, iron ore and natural gas liquids. In aggregate, we make available for trading over 1,100 energy futures contracts. Our largest energy contract is the ICE Brent crude futures contract. The contract is a derivative of the ICE Brent Index, which is based on trades in the forward physical market for blends of light, sweet crude oil that originate from oil fields in the North Sea that comprise the Brent, Forties, Oseberg, Ekofisk, or BFOE, complex as well as other oil fields that have been added in recent years. The Brent complex, which includes ICE Brent crude futures, is a group of related benchmarks used to price a range of traded oil










products, including approximately two-thirds of the world’s internationally-traded crude oil. The ICE Low Sulphur Gasoil futures contract is a European diesel oil contract that offers physical delivery and serves as a middle distillate pricing benchmark for refined oil products, particularly in Europe and Asia. We also operate the world’s second largest market for trading in WTI crude oil futures, as measured by the volume of contracts traded in 2015 according to the Futures Industry Association. The WTI Crude futures contract is the benchmark for pricing U.S. crude. Roughly half of the global crude oil futures market traded at ICE during 2015. ICE also operates markets for North American natural gas and power futures and bilateral contracts, and European and U.K. natural gas futures contracts.

Agricultural Futures Contracts

ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Europe are our regulated, leading commodity futures exchanges for the trading of agricultural commodities. The prices for our agricultural contracts serve as global benchmarks for the physical commodity markets, including Sugar No. 11® (world raw sugar), white sugar, Coffee “C”® (Arabica coffee), robusta coffee, Cotton No. 2® (cotton), U.S. and London cocoa and frozen concentrated orange juice.

ICE Futures Canada is the only regulated commodity futures exchange in Canada and it facilitates the trading of futures and options on futures contracts for canola, milling wheat, durum wheat and barley. ICE Futures Canada contracts are designed to provide effective pricing, trading and hedging tools to market participants worldwide. ICE Futures Canada’s canola futures contract is the worldwide price benchmark for canola.

Financial Futures Contracts

ICE Futures Europe makes available for trading a range of financial futures products, including interest rate, equity index, and currency derivative products. Core products are short-term interest rate, or STIR, contracts, with its principal STIR contracts based on implied forward rates denominated in euro and sterling, such as Euribor, short-term Sterling and Gilt contracts, as well as U.S. rates including Eurodollar and GCF repo futures. In addition, we introduced approximately 50 new interest rate products in 2015 that further extend the duration of our interest rate offerings into medium and long-term rates across European markets.

ICE Futures U.S. offers financial products in currency, equity index and credit index markets, including futures and options contracts on Russell indexes and futures on certain MSCI indices. We entered into a licensing agreement with MSCI, Inc. and retain certain exclusive rights with respect to 540 MSCI equity indices, most notably the Emerging Markets and EAFE indices, for the remainder of the licensing term.

ICE Futures U.S. lists futures and options contracts for approximately 60 currency pair contracts including euro-based, U.S. dollar-based, yen-based, sterling-based and other cross-rates, as well as the benchmark U.S. Dollar Index (USDX®) futures contract.

Securities Products and Listings

We offer securities trading products and listings through our exchanges the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE MKT and NYSE Arca. We provide multiple marketplaces for investors, broker-dealers and other market participants to meet directly to buy and sell equities, fixed income securities and ETPs. One of the primary functions of our markets is to ensure that orders to purchase and sell securities are executed in a reliable, orderly, liquid and efficient manner.

Through our various listing venues, we offer our customers access to the capital markets in the U.S. We allow companies to list domestic and international equity securities, corporate structured products, convertible bonds, ETPs and bonds.

Credit Derivatives Products

We offer electronic and voice brokered trade execution for CDS instruments through Creditex Brokerage, which is authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA, and Creditex, our U.S. based interdealer broker, which is regulated by the CFTC and SEC. ICE Swap Trade provides electronic execution for the OTC credit markets. We offer clearing services for the CDS markets through ICE Clear Europe and ICE Clear Credit. Both CDS clearing houses are open-access and therefore accept qualifying trades for clearing that are executed on other venues.

CDS are derivative instruments that involve a credit risk transfer between counterparties with respect to fixed income instruments such as corporate and sovereign debt securities. CDS are mainly used to hedge against credit risk exposure related to a particular reference entity for a specified debt obligation or debt instrument.

We also operate ICE Link, which is an automated trade workflow and electronic connectivity platform for affirming credit derivatives transactions. It also provides connectivity between participants, facilitating straight-through processing to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation’s Trade Information Warehouse for non-cleared CDS transactions or to a clearing house for CDS transactions that are clearing eligible.

OTC Energy Products










Our OTC energy markets comprise the trading of bilateral energy contracts. We operate our financially settled bilateral energy markets through ICE Swap Trade and we offer electronic trading of contracts based on physically settled natural gas, power and refined oil products through ICE U.S. OTC Commodity Markets.

As of December 31, 2015, approximately 500 OTC energy contracts were listed on our electronic trading platform and are available for bilateral trading. A substantial portion of our OTC volume relates to approximately 70 contracts in North American natural gas and power, and global oil. For these contracts, the highest degree of market liquidity resides in the front (next day or month) contracts.

Data Services

ICE's data services include publication of daily indices, historical price and other transaction data, view-only and mobile access to our electronic futures trading platform, end of day settlements and related market data. ICE also offers independent validation of participants’ own valuations for OTC products.

We also provide real-time futures data to data distributors, also known as quote vendors. These companies, such as Bloomberg or Reuters, then package this data into real-time, tick, intra-day, delayed, end-of-day and historical data packages for their users. The real-time packages are accessed on a subscription basis, and the appropriate exchange fee is paid for each user's access. End users include financial information providers, futures commission merchants, pension funds, financial services companies, funds, insurance companies, commodity pools and individual investors.

Through NYSE, we provide distribution of real-time market data. This data includes price, transaction and order book data on all of the instruments traded on NYSE's cash and derivatives markets. The data is disseminated through data vendors and directly to financial institutions and other service providers in the financial sector. NYSE provides two types of market data products and services: data products required by the regulations governing the National Market Systems, or NMS plans, and proprietary data products.

The consolidated data products meet the SEC requirement for securities markets to work together in consolidating their bids, offers and last sale prices for each security, and to provide this information to the public on a consolidated basis. We work with other exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, to make our U.S. market data available, on a consolidated basis, on what is often referred to as the "consolidated tape." This intermarket cooperative effort provides the investing public with the reported transaction prices and the best bid and offer for each security, regardless of the market from which a quote is reported or on which market a trade takes place. Last sale prices and quotes in the New York Stock Exchange-listed, NYSE MKT-listed and NYSE Arca-listed securities are disseminated through Tape A and Tape B, which constitute the majority of our NYSE market data revenues. We also receive a share of the revenues from Tape C, which represents data related to trading of certain securities (including ETPs) that are listed on Nasdaq.

In addition, we make certain equity market data available, which is known as proprietary data. We package this type of market data as real-time products and as historical products used for analysis by traders, researchers and academics. These products are proprietary to us, and we do not share the revenues that they generate with other markets. Generally, proprietary data that provides real-time quoting or trading information regarding our markets is subject to review by the SEC. In addition, the pricing for these market data products is subject to review by the SEC on the basis of whether prices are fair, reasonable and not unfairly discriminatory.

Through our index weightings service, we also provide traders, analysts, investors and others who rely on up-to-date index information with daily information on the exact composition and weighting of our indices and precise details of changes in index levels and constituent share prices. We also offer reference data, including comprehensive corporate actions information for all the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Arca and NYSE MKT listed instruments.

SFTI and Colocation Services



ICE operates the SFTI network. SFTI is a secure, purpose-built, private multi-participant network that provides customers connectivity to global exchanges and content service providers via dedicated data circuits with a design that ensures no single point of failure exists across the network. Customers can connect to over 120 global markets and content service providers on the SFTI network. These include the NYSE and ICE global markets, as well as alternative trading systems, clearing and settlement services, and market data vendors.



We operate purpose-built data centers in the U.K. and New Jersey and we manage systems in a third-party data center in Illinois. We offer server colocation space at our data centers for market participants to house their servers and applications on equivalent terms.

Interactive Data Services










Through the acquisition of Interactive Data in December 2015, along with SuperDerivatives in October 214, we now provide financial market data, analytics, connectivity and related solutions to financial institutions and software and service providers primarily in fixed income markets.

Interactive Data's primary business line is pricing and reference data, which offers an extensive set of market data products, services and analytics, many of which are proprietary, to over 5,000 clients worldwide, including evaluated pricing services on over 2.6 million fixed income securities and other hard-to-value financial instruments. We deliver independent opinions of value on fixed income securities and other hard-to-value financial instruments. Our evaluated pricing spans more than 140 countries and covers a wide range of financial instruments including sovereign, corporate and municipal bonds, structured products, leveraged loans and derivatives. Clients need to value these financial instruments to meet regulatory requirements and to enable a range of mission-critical processes from the back to the front office.

Our reference data complements our evaluated pricing services by offering our clients a broad range of descriptive information, covering over 10 million global financial instruments. This data is used by clients to enhance risk management, support compliance with regulatory mandates and improve operational efficiency across their organizations. We compile information from an extensive range of sources, including exchanges, underwriters, government agencies, issuers and other authoritative sources. Our reference data content covers:

•identification  and  settlement  information,  including: identifiers, name, ticker, coupon, payment frequency and accrual method;

•business entity data, including: issuer, parent entity and ultimate parent entity;

•detailed terms and conditions data, including: call, put and sinking fund schedules, conversion details and coupon reset terms; and

•global corporate actions information, including: mergers, rights offerings, tender offers, bankruptcies and other shareholder notifications; cash and stock dividends, income payment details, earnings and amounts outstanding; and tax consequence and cost basis information.

In addition to our evaluated pricing and reference data, we collect, edit and normalize real-time data from a wide range of global exchanges and financial markets. End-of-day pricing data, obtained from a variety of sources, including approximately 120 financial markets and exchanges globally, is delivered to clients after the markets close. This pricing data includes bid and offer, last trade, open and close, high and low, and volume information.

Our BondEdge® fixed income and equity portfolio analytics offerings provide financial institutions with data as well as proprietary fixed income and equity portfolio analytics to help analyze risk and return. These offerings are used by investment professionals to simulate various market environments to help forecast performance, construct portfolios, validate investment strategies, conduct stress testing,  generate  dynamic  risk  measures,  analyze  asset  cash  flows  and  support  regulatory  compliance requirements.

Interactive Data also offers Trading Solutions, which provides products and services supporting a range of trading, wealth management, and other investment applications. It offers cost-effective access to a range of real-time data sources. Through our Consolidated Feed service, clients receive consolidated real-time and/or delayed financial data from over 450 global exchanges, trading venues and data sources covering listed and OTC securities. Our Consolidated Feed service is complemented by our Tick History service, which provides access to tick and trade data for global securities to assist clients with “best execution” requirements, transaction cost analysis and advanced charting applications.

The 7ticks trading infrastructure managed services solution offers direct exchange access, proximity hosting and support services that enable access to real-time exchange data and facilitates low latency electronic trading.

In addition, we offer a range of workstations that primarily target the wealth management, commodity and energy trading, and individual investor sectors. These workstations provide applications that deliver real-time financial market information and decision support tools to help clients analyze financial markets and make investment decisions. Similarly, our web-based financial information solutions consist of market data, decision-support tools and hosting services.

Trayport Services

Trayport licenses its software and technology to serve brokers, exchanges and traders to facilitate electronic and hybrid trade execution primarily in the energy markets. Traders are primarily utilities or other energy companies who own or operate physical energy assets and who use the wholesale energy products offered on different marketplaces to be viewed on Trayport software to manage price risk associated with their operations and assets. The primary OTC products facilitated on Trayport software include European energy products.

ICE Benchmark Administration (IBA)










IBA is the regulated administrator of a growing range of benchmarks. IBA has implemented processes, governance, systems and technology that enhance the transparency and security of benchmarks relied upon globally.

In February 2014, IBA was authorized by the FCA to commence administration of LIBOR as an independent and regulated benchmark administrator. Since authorization, IBA has been working with global industry associations, stakeholders and regulators to transition LIBOR and improve the integrity and transparency of the benchmark. IBA has established a robust oversight and governance framework, in addition to developing surveillance technology and analytical tools to operate the benchmark setting process.

In August 2014, IBA became the ICE Swap Rate, formerly ISDAFIX, administrator following appointment by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, or ISDA. The ICE Swap Rate benchmark represents the average mid-market swap rate for major currencies at selected maturities on a daily basis. Market participants use the rate to price and settle swap contracts and as a reference rate for floating rate bonds.

In March 2015, IBA became the administrator of the gold price. The London Bullion Market Association, or LBMA, Gold Price replaced the Gold Fixing Price that had been in existence since September 1919. The price is set in London twice a day and provides a published benchmark price that is widely used as an international pricing medium by producers, consumers, investors and central banks.

Clearing Services

We currently operate six clearing houses. Our clearing strategy is designed to provide financial stability to the markets served by us while providing capital efficiency and meeting the risk management, capital and regulatory requirements of a global marketplace. Our clearing houses clear, settle and guarantee the financial performance of futures contracts and options on futures contracts. ICE Clear Europe also clears European CDS instruments, and ICE Clear Credit clears North American, European and Emerging Market CDS instruments. Through each of our clearing houses, we maintain a system for the performance of obligations for the products we clear. This system is supported by several mechanisms, including:

•rigorous clearing membership requirements;

•daily mark-to-market of positions and payment of variation margin;

•intraday monitoring of open positions and market conditions;

•the calculation and posting of original/initial margin deposits;

•limited contribution of the clearing house's capital;

•process for conducting regular stress testing;

•maintenance of guaranty funds in which clearing members maintain deposits to mutualize losses; and

•broad assessment powers all of which cover financial losses beyond the resources of a defaulting clearing member.

The amount of margin and guaranty fund deposits fluctuates over time as a result of, among other things, the extent of open positions held at any point in time by market participants and the volatility of the market as reflected in the applicable margin rates for such contracts.

Clearing House Risk Management Practices

Our clearing houses have an excellent track record of risk management, and have never experienced an incident of a clearing member default which has required the use of the guaranty funds of non-defaulting clearing members or the assets of the clearing house. Nevertheless, we have extensive risk management procedures in place to ensure we protect the interests of our clearing members and clearing houses. Each of our clearing houses has instituted a multi-layered risk management system of rules, policies and procedures to protect itself in the event of a clearing member default.

To ensure performance, our clearing houses maintain extensive technology and quantitative risk management systems, as well as financial and operational requirements for clearing members and minimum margin requirements for our cleared products. Our clearing houses use software based on industry standard margining conventions and on our proprietary models uniquely customized to our products to determine the appropriate margin requirements for each clearing member by simulating the possible gains and losses of complex portfolios based on price movements.

In the event of a payment default by a member, the default procedures specified in the rules of that clearing house would apply. In general, the clearing houses would first apply assets of the defaulting member to cover the obligation. These include original/initial margin, variation margin, positions held at the clearing house and guaranty fund deposits of the clearing member. In addition, the clearing houses could make a demand for payment pursuant to any available guarantee provided by the parent or affiliate of the defaulting clearing member. If that is not sufficient, the clearing houses would use any designated contributions held by the clearing










house itself, as applicable, the guaranty fund contributions of other members and funds collected through an assessment against all other non-defaulting members, to satisfy the remaining deficit, if any. As part of the powers and procedures designed to backstop financial obligations in the event of a default, each of our clearing houses may levy assessments on all of its clearing members if there are insufficient funds available to cover a deficit following the depletion of all assets in the guaranty fund.

Our risk management framework that applies to the clearing services for the CDS markets through ICE Clear Europe is separate from that of our futures and options or non-CDS clearing operations. We also offer clearing services for CDS markets through ICE Clear Credit. We have established separate CDS risk pools for ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear Europe, including separate guaranty funds and margin accounts, meaning that the CDS positions are not combined with positions in our futures and options clearing houses. The CDS clearing houses have risk management systems that are designed specifically for CDS instruments and have independent governance structures. Both CDS clearing houses are open-access pursuant to regulatory requirements and therefore accept qualifying trades for clearing that are executed on other venues. As of December 31, 2015, our CDS clearing houses clear 431 single name instruments and 129 CDS indexes.

We have historically committed $303 million in borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility to assist our clearing houses with liquidity that may be needed to both operate and manage a default during a time of financial stress. As of December 31, 2015, we no longer reserve any of our revolving credit facility for use by our clearing houses for liquidity purposes and instead increased our contribution to restricted cash at our clearing houses. See Item 7 "- Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources" in this Annual Report.

Our clearing houses require that each clearing member make deposits to the guaranty fund. The amounts in the guaranty fund will serve to secure the obligations of a clearing member to our clearing houses and may be used to cover losses in excess of the margin and clearing firm accounts sustained by our clearing houses in the event of a default of a clearing member. As ofDecember 31, 2015, we have made combined contributions to our clearing houses guaranty funds of$250 million. ICE Clear Europe has contributed$100 millionof its own cash as part of its futures and options guaranty fund as ofDecember 31, 2015and has also contributed$50 millionof its own cash as part of its CDS guaranty fund as ofDecember 31, 2015. ICE Clear Credit has contributed$50 millionof its own cash as part of its CDS guaranty fund as ofDecember 31, 2015and ICE Clear U.S. has contributed$50 millionof its own cash as part of its futures and options guaranty fund as ofDecember 31, 2015. Each of these amounts are reflected as long-term restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheet.

The Financial Stability Oversight Council, or FSOC, has designated ICE Clear Credit as a systemically important financial market utility under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. As such, ICE Clear Credit has access to the Federal Reserve System and currently holds deposits in excess of $8 billion of its U.S. dollar cash in its cash account at the Federal Reserve.

To provide a tool to address the liquidity needs of the clearing house and manage the liquidation of margin and guaranty fund deposits held in the form of high quality sovereign debt, ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear U.S. have entered into Committed Repurchase Agreement Facilities, or Committed Repo. As ofDecember 31, 2015, ICE Clear Europe had $1.0 billion in Committed Repo, ICE Clear Credit had $500 million in Committed Repo and ICE Clear U.S. had $250 million in Committed Repo. The ICE Clear Europe Committed Repo is available in U.S. dollars, euro and pound sterling, the ICE Clear Credit Committed Repo is available in U.S. dollars and euro and the ICE Clear U.S. Committed Repo is available in U.S. dollars. The Committed Repo arrangements provide these three clearing houses with an additional liquidity tool that may be utilized in the event there is a need to convert high quality sovereign debt into cash on a same-day basis during a market disruption that makes it difficult to sell and settle such sovereign debt on a same-day basis.

Our Customer Base

Derivatives Markets

Customers in our derivatives markets include market participants seeking to trade and manage risk. They include those served by our energy, financial, and agricultural markets, including, financial institutions, money managers, trading firms, commodity producers and consumers, and other business entities.

Securities Trading and Listings

Securities trading and listings customers include various market participants in the equities markets, from financial institutions, institutional investors, wholesalers, hedge funds, quantitative funds, algorithmic traders and individual investors to companies looking to raise capital and list their securities on one of our equity exchanges. Our customers are also our members, which are entities registered as broker-dealers with the SEC that have obtained trading permits or licenses in accordance with, and are subject to the rules of, the exchange in which they are members.

Our global listings businesses offer capital raising to and trading of over 2,400 companies globally, representing over $25 trillion in market capitalization as of December 31, 2015. NYSE's listed companies represent a diverse range of sectors, including technology,










financial services, consumer brands, industrial, transportation, media, energy and mining. These companies meet minimum initial and ongoing listings requirements, including governance and financial standards, as established by the exchange.

Data Services

Data services participants include financial institutions, corporations, commodity trading companies, proprietary trading firms, utilities, hedge funds, pension funds and private investors. A large proportion of our data services revenue is derived from companies executing trades on our platforms. Our pricing and reference data clients also include asset management firms, mutual funds, pension funds, insurance companies, ETF sponsors, banks, and brokerage firms, as well as hundreds of value added resellers such as custodians, software providers, and other outsourcing organizations who use our products and services across their front, middle and back offices.

Product Development

We leverage our customer relationships, global distribution, technology infrastructure and software development capabilities to diversify our products and services. New product development is an ongoing process, and we are continually developing, evaluating and testing new products for introduction into our markets to better serve our participant base. The majority of our product development relates to evaluating new contracts or new markets based on customer demand. New contracts often must be reviewed and approved by relevant regulators. Outside of third-party licensing costs, we typically do not incur separate, material costs for the development of new products - such costs are embedded in our normal costs of operation.

While we have historically developed our products and services internally, we also periodically evaluate and enter into strategic partnerships and licensing arrangements to identify opportunities to develop meaningful new products and services.



Technology

Technology is a key component of our business strategy, and we regard effective execution of our technology initiatives as crucial to our success. Where feasible, we design and build our software systems and believe that having control over our technology allows us to be more responsive to the needs of our customers, better support the dynamic nature of our business and deliver the highest quality markets and data. Our proprietary systems are built using state-of-the-art technology. A significant number of our employees work in technology, including product management, project management, system architecture, software development, network engineering, information security, performance, systems analysis, quality assurance, database administration and customer technical support.

ICE Trading Platforms and Technology

The ICE trading platform supports trading in our cleared futures and options markets as well as our bilateral OTC markets. We also offer voice brokers a facility for submitting block trades for products that are eligible for clearing.

Speed, reliability, scalability and capacity are critical performance criteria for electronic trading platforms.  Connectivity to our trading platform for our markets is available through our web-based front-end, as well as multiple independent software vendors, or ISVs, and application programming interfaces, or APIs.

NYSE Trading Platforms and Related Technology

The NYSE electronic trading platform features an open system architecture that allows users to access our system via one of the many front-end trading applications developed by ISVs. For equity options, we offer a hybrid model of electronic and open outcry trading through NYSE Amex Options and NYSE Arca Options. We are developing a new integrated trading platform and matching engine known as NYSE Pillar for the five U.S. cash equities and equity options markets which currently operate on distinct platforms. The single specification will improve performance and reduce the cost and complexity of operating multiple equity and options trading systems.

Interactive Data Platform and Technology

Development of a new Interactive Data technology platform began in 2011. The platform features a single configurable data capture mechanism, a common data model across all pricing and reference data products, and a flexible multi-format delivery capability. The platform is intended to create a more stable platform for the processing and delivery of pricing and reference data products and services, facilitate and accelerate new product development, improve production reliability, and yield operating and cost efficiencies as development continues.

Clearing Technology










A broad range of trade management and clearing services are offered through our clearing houses. ICE Clearing Systems encompass a number of integrated systems, including post-trade position management, risk management, settlement, treasury and reporting functions.

A core component of our derivatives clearing houses is the risk management of clearing firm members. Our extensive technology and rules-based risk system provides analytical tools to determine margin, to determine credit risk, and monitor risk of the clearing members. The risk system also monitors trading activities of the clearing members.

Cyber Security

Cyber security is critical to our operations. We employ a defense-in-depth strategy, employing leading-edge security technology and processes including encryption, firewalls, virus prevention, intrusion prevention systems and secured servers. Where our services are accessible via the Internet, we have implemented additional restrictions to limit access to specific approved networks. We also maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy and payment of significant deductibles, cover certain aspects of cyber security issues; however, our cyber security insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all losses. We monitor physical threats in addition to cyber threats and continuously review and update physical security and environmental controls to secure our office and data center locations.

Business Continuity Planning and Disaster Recovery

We maintain comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans and facilities to provide nearly continuous availability of our markets in the event of a business disruption or disaster. We maintain incident and crisis management plans that address responses to disruptive events at any of our locations worldwide.



Intellectual Property

We rely on a wide range of intellectual property, both owned and licensed, for our electronic platforms. We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the U.S., Europe and in other parts of the world. We have registered the majority of our trademarks in the U.S. and in certain other countries. We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. We also own the copyright to a variety of material. Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include software code, printed and online publications, websites, advertisements, educational material, graphic presentations and other literature, both textual and electronic. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods.

This Annual Report also contains additional trade names, trademarks and service marks of our and of other companies. We do not intend the use or display of other parties’ trademarks, trade names or service marks to imply, and this use or display should not be construed to imply, our endorsement or sponsorship of these other parties, their endorsement or sponsorship of it, or any other relationship between it and these other parties.

Employees

As of December 31, 2015, we had a total of 5,549 employees, with 726 employees in Atlanta, 1,718 employees in New York, 903 employees in the U.K. and a total of 2,202 employees across our other offices around the world. Of our total employee base, less than 1% is subject to collective bargaining arrangements, and such relations are considered to be good.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information relating to our executive officers is included under "Executive Officers" in Part III, Item 10, "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance" of this Annual Report.



Regulation

Our markets are primarily subject to the jurisdiction of regulatory agencies in the U.S., U.K., the European Union, or EU, Canada and Singapore.

Derivatives Regulation

Our regulated derivatives markets and clearing houses are based primarily in the U.S., U.K., EU, Canada and Singapore. Our U.S. futures exchange is subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act, or CEA. The CEA generally requires that futures trading in the U.S. be conducted on a commodity exchange registered as a Designated Contract Market, or DCM. As a registered DCM, ICE Futures U.S. is a self-regulatory organization that has instituted rules and procedures to comply with the core principles applicable to it under the CEA. In the U.K., ICE Futures Europe is a Recognized Investment Exchange, or










RIE, in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, or FSMA. Like U.S. regulated derivatives markets, RIEs are self-regulatory organizations, or SROs, with surveillance and compliance responsibilities. ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear U.S. are regulated by the CFTC as Derivatives Clearing Organizations, or DCOs. DCOs are subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC under the CEA. ICE Clear Europe, which is primarily regulated in the U.K. by the Bank of England as a Recognized Clearing House, or RCH, is also subject to regulation by the CFTC as a DCO. Both ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear Europe are also regulated by the SEC as clearing agencies because they clear security-based swaps.

The Financial Stability Oversight Council, or FSOC, has designated ICE Clear Credit as a systemically important financial market utility under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act.

Securities Regulation

In our cash equities and options markets, the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Arca and NYSE MKT are national securities exchanges and, as such, are SROs and subject to oversight by the SEC. Accordingly, our U.S. securities exchanges are regulated by the SEC and, in turn, are the regulators of their members. As national securities exchanges, the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Arca and NYSE MKT must comply with, and enforce compliance by their members with, the Securities Exchange Act. Failure to satisfy these requirements can give rise to sanctions by the SEC.

The New York Stock Exchange has delegated the performance of certain of these regulatory functions to NYSE Regulation, a not-for-profit subsidiary of NYSE. Similarly, NYSE Arca and NYSE MKT have entered into Regulatory Service Agreements, or RSAs, with NYSE Regulation to perform these regulatory functions. NYSE Regulation has an agreement with FINRA to perform certain of our regulatory functions.

Data Regulation

As a result of our acquisition of Interactive Data in December 2015, we have a subsidiary that is registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act for its evaluated pricing services. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, many of which are new requirements for ICE.  The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Investment Advisers Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations.

Regulatory Reform

Domestic and foreign policy makers have undertaken reviews of their existing legal frameworks governing financial markets, and have either passed new laws and regulations, or are in the process of debating and/or enacting new laws and regulations that apply to our business and to our customers' businesses. Our key areas of focus on these efforts are:

•The adoption and implementation of position limit rules in the U.S. and Europe, which could have an impact on our commodities business if comparable trading venues in foreign jurisdictions are not subject to equivalent limitations.

•The non-discriminatory access provisions of MiFID II as currently drafted, would require our European exchanges and central  counterparty clearing houses, or CCPs, to offer access to third parties. In addition, MiFID II could require our European exchanges to allow participants to trade and/or clear at other venues, which may encourage competing venues to offer our products. MiFID II is likely to be delayed and the timing of implementation, which was initially 2017 at the earliest, has not yet been updated.

•The implementation of capital charges in Basel III, particularly the Supplemental Leverage Ratio with respect to certain clearing members of central counterparties. These new standards may impose burdensome capital requirements on our clearing members and customers that may disincentivize clearing.

•The harmonization of regulations globally. In particular, the harmonization of the margin provisions of EMIR, which require the collection of margin based upon a two day period of risk with the U.S. requirement that CCPs collect margin with a one day period of risk. Failure to harmonize the margin requirements could result in the EU having higher margin requirements than the U.S.

•The recognition of our businesses in foreign jurisdictions. In particular, our U.S. CCPs, ICE Clear U.S. and ICE Clear Credit as foreign domiciled CCPs must be recognized by ESMA to conduct business in Europe. ICE Clear U.S and ICE Clear Credit have made applications to ESMA to become recognized as EMIR third country CCPs and ESMA has deemed those applications complete. However, ESMA's recognition of ICE Clear U.S and ICE Clear Credit as third country CCPs is dependent upon an equivalence decision by the European Commission that each clearing house's home country regulatory framework is equivalent to the regulatory framework of the EU. Failure to achieve recognition could impair our U.S. CCPs’ ability to do business in Europe.










•The proposed European financial transaction taxes. In September 2015, 11 European nations, including France, Germany and the Netherlands, met to discuss implementing a financial transaction tax on equities and derivatives trading. While certain of the participants reached a broad political agreement on instituting the tax, many details are left to be concluded, including how to assess the tax at a member state level. Implementation of a financial transaction tax could have a distortive effect on our European operations if adopted.

•Open access to our benchmarks in Europe, which would provide competitors with the right to use our proprietary benchmarks and prohibit exclusivity with respect to certain European indices, could impact the profitability of certain exclusive products that use an exclusive index.

•The U.S.'s proposed Regulation AT, which, if enacted as proposed, would add additional burdens for DCMs and market participants, including exchanges, to monitor automated trading and to file rules to make changes to their trading systems.

•Regulatory re-examination of U.S. equity market structure and issues related to our exchanges ability to operate as self-regulatory organizations, or SROs, with related immunity for the discharge of their regulatory functions.

Please see the discussion below and Item 1(A) “- Risk Factors” in this Annual Report for additional description of regulatory and legislative risks and uncertainties.

Corporate Citizenship

We strive to create long-term value for our shareholders and maintain high ethical and business standards. We are active in the communities where we operate and support charitable organizations through a combination of financial resources and through employee participation. We also operate the ICE NYSE Foundation that has a commitment to supporting financial literacy and veterans' programs and we routinely host workshops and programs for our issuers on topics to provide a forum for advancing their efforts on environmental, social and governance matters. We provide additional information under the Corporate Citizenship section of our website.

With regard to the environment, we acquired Climate Exchange PLC in 2010 and are today the leading operator of global emissions markets, which enabled us to expand and support the development of emissions markets. We have invested further to develop new environmental products on our exchanges, including carbon emissions, aviation allowances, renewable energy certificate contracts, California carbon allowance contracts and biofuel products related to renewable identification numbers.

Available Information

Our principal executive offices are located at 5660 New Northside Drive NW, 3rd Floor, Atlanta, Georgia 30328. Our main telephone number is 1-770-857-4700, and our website is www.theice.com.

We are required to file reports and other information with the SEC. A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any future Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports are available free of charge, on our website (www.theice.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. A copy of these filings is also available at the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov). The reference to our website address and to the SEC's website address do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this report. You may read and copy any documents filed by us at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room.

In addition, we have posted on our website the charters for our (i) Audit Committee, (ii) Compensation Committee, (iii) Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and (iv) Risk Committee, as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which includes information regarding our whistleblower hotline information, Board of Directors Governance Principles and Board Communication Policy. We will provide a copy of these documents without charge to stockholders upon request.





