ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Business

We are a leading global operator of regulated exchanges, clearing houses and listings venues, and a provider of data services for commodity and financial markets. We operate regulated marketplaces for listing, trading and clearing a broad array of derivatives and securities contracts across major asset classes, including energy and agricultural commodities, interest rates, equities, equity derivatives, exchange traded funds, credit derivatives, bonds and currencies. We offer end-to-end market data services to support the trading, investment, risk management and connectivity needs of customers across virtually all asset classes. Below is a list of the global markets and related products that we currently serve.



Our exchanges include futures exchanges in the United States, or U.S., United Kingdom, or U.K., Continental Europe, Canada and Singapore, and cash equities, equity options and bond exchanges in the U.S. We also operate over-the-counter, or OTC, markets for physical energy and credit default swaps, or CDS, trade execution. To serve global derivatives markets, we operate central counterparty clearing houses in the U.S., U.K., Continental Europe, Canada and Singapore. We offer a range of data services for global financial and commodity markets, including pricing and reference data, exchange data, analytics, feeds, desktops and connectivity solutions. Through our markets, clearing houses, listings and data services, we provide end-to-end solutions for our customers through liquid markets, benchmark products, access to capital markets, and related services to support their ability to manage risk and raise capital.

Our business is currently conducted as two reportable business segments, our Trading and Clearing segment and our Data and Listings segment, and the majority of our identifiable assets are located in the U.S. and U.K. For a summary of our revenues, net assets and net property and equipment by geographic region, see note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report.

Derivatives Exchanges

Our derivatives markets provide a means for trading and managing risks associated with price volatility, securing physical delivery of certain commodities, as well as enabling investment, asset allocation and diversification. The majority of our commodity contract volume is settled based upon the difference between the contract price and the value of the underlying










commodity at contract expiry rather than through physical delivery of the commodity or financial instrument itself (commonly referred to as cash or financially-settled). Our futures and option contracts on futures contracts are cleared through one of our central clearing houses. Our options markets are operated via a dual market structure through a single technology platform. Our options markets encourage deep liquidity and encourage market makers to provide the best possible prices.

We conduct our derivatives markets through the following regulated exchanges:

•ICE Futures Europeis a leading exchange for futures and options contracts based on energy and agricultural commodities, interest rates, equity derivatives and emissions. ICE Clear Europe clears contracts traded on ICE Futures Europe.

•ICE Futures U.S.is a leading exchange that lists futures and options for agricultural and energy commodities, equity indices, currencies, credit and precious metals. ICE Clear Europe clears the energy contracts traded on ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Clear U.S. clears all other contracts traded on ICE Futures U.S.

•ICE Futures Canadais Canada’s leading agricultural futures and options exchange. It offers futures and options contracts on canola, milling wheat, durum wheat and barley. ICE Clear Canada clears contracts traded on ICE Futures Canada.

•ICE Endexis a leading continental European energy exchange providing regulated markets for natural gas and power derivatives, gas balancing markets and gas storage services and is based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. We own a majority stake of ICE Endex, with NV Netherlands Gasunie, or Gasunie, holding a minority stake. ICE Clear Europe provides clearing for ICE Endex.

•ICE Futures Singaporelists futures contracts for energy, gold and foreign exchange commodities. ICE Clear Singapore provides clearing for ICE Futures Singapore.

•NYSE Amex Optionsis a U.S. equity options exchange that offers order execution through a hybrid model (both electronic and via open outcry on our trading floor adjoining the New York Stock Exchange) in approximately 2,500  options issues.

•NYSE Arca Optionsis also a U.S. equity options exchange that offers order execution through a hybrid model, with both electronic trading and trading via our trading floor in San Francisco. NYSE Arca Options offers trading in approximately 2,200 options issues.

OTC Markets

Our OTC markets include both regulated and unregulated platforms for the execution of cleared and bilateral, or non-cleared, CDS instruments and bilateral energy contracts. ICE Swap Trade, Creditex Group and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Creditex") and Creditex Brokerage provide trade execution in our CDS business and are authorized and regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC. We list financially settled bilateral energy contracts on ICE Swap Trade and offer electronic trading on our physically settled North American natural gas, power, and global crude and refined oil products. We offer electronic trading of contracts based on physically settled natural gas, power and refined oil products through ICE U.S. OTC Commodity Markets.

Clearing Houses

We operate clearing houses, each of which acts as a central counterparty that becomes the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer. Through this central counterparty function, the clearing houses provide financial security for each transaction for the duration of the position by limiting counterparty credit risk. Our clearing houses are responsible for providing clearing services to each of our futures exchanges and certain of our clearing houses clear contracts traded outside of our execution venues. Our clearing houses are:

•ICE Clear Europeclears ICE Futures Europe and ICE Endex futures contracts for interest rates, equity indices, energy and agriculture products, as well as ICE Futures U.S. futures contracts for energy and OTC European CDS instruments;

•ICE Clear U.S.clears ICE Futures U.S. soft commodity, currency, metals, credit and domestic and equity index futures contracts;

•ICE Clear Creditclears North American, European, Asian-Pacific and Emerging Market CDS instruments;

•ICE Clear Canadaclears ICE Futures Canada agricultural futures contracts;










•ICE Clear Netherlandsclears Dutch equity options (which are traded on The Order Machine, an unrelated trading platform); and

•ICE Clear Singaporeclears ICE Futures Singapore commodity contracts and foreign exchange, or FX.

Securities Trading and Listings

We operate three securities exchanges for the trading of cash equities, including exchange traded funds, or ETFs, fixed income securities and securities options. One of the primary functions of these markets is to ensure that orders to purchase and sell securities are executed in a fair, orderly and efficient manner. In addition, through our listings operations, we offer corporate and ETF issuers access to the U.S. capital markets. We conduct our securities trading and listings business through the following exchanges and marketplaces:

•The New York Stock Exchangeis a leading global cash equity exchange. It is the leading equity exchange for initial public offerings, or IPOs, globally, and enables companies seeking to raise capital to become publicly listed through the IPO process upon meeting exchange listing standards. In addition to common stocks, preferred stocks and warrants, the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, lists structured products, such as capital securities and mandatory convertible securities. In addition, NYSE operates NYSE Bonds, an electronic trading platform with transparent pricing for trading debt securities, including corporate bonds.

•NYSE MKT, formerly NYSE Amex and prior to that the American Stock Exchange, became part of NYSE Group, Inc., or NYSE Group, in 2008. It is our U.S. listing venue for emerging growth companies. NYSE MKT supports growth companies that benefit from a fully integrated trading platform model similar to the New York Stock Exchange. NYSE MKT provides a listing venue for a broad range of companies that may not qualify for listing on the New York Stock Exchange. NYSE MKT also lists and trades securities options.

•NYSE Arcaoffers trading of more than 8,000 listed securities, including listings on the NYSE, Nasdaq, Inc. and BATS Global Markets, Inc., or BATS. NYSE Arca is the leading listing and trading platform for ETFs and exchange traded notes. NYSE Arca also lists and trades securities options.

Data Services

Our data business, ICE Data Services, or IDS, initially distributed data created from our exchanges and clearing houses, which currently spans nine asset classes at eleven exchanges and six clearing houses. We have completed acquisitions of data services companies, including Interactive Data, SuperDerivatives, Trayport and certain assets from S&P Global, which enables IDS to provide services across the full spectrum of financial and commodity markets to meet the needs of asset managers, financial institutions, commercial hedgers and corporations, among others. The diversity and quality of the market data we distribute, together with technology and connectivity solutions, support liquidity, price discovery, trading and investing, risk management, compliance, reporting and other operational activities in global financial markets.

We have defined our data business in three main categories of services: Pricing and Analytics; Exchange Data; and Desktops, and Connectivity. These encompass a broad range of services, such as the distribution of real-time information provided by our markets and others’ markets relating to prices, transactions and orders, and the comprehensive network of infrastructure services provided by the Secure Financial Transaction Infrastructure, or SFTI, which connects our markets with other market centers as well as our global aggregated consolidated feeds. We also provide valuation, reference, instrument data and analytical services, as well as pricing and valuation services, for benchmarks, ETFs and a range of financial derivatives and clearing house positions, including ICE indices for fixed income markets. In addition, through ICE Benchmark Administration, or IBA, we administer regulated benchmarks including LIBOR, Gold Price and ICE Swap Rate (formerly known as ISDAFIX).

On October 3, 2016, we completed our acquisition of Standard & Poor’s Securities Evaluations, Inc., or SPSE, a provider of fixed income evaluated pricing, and Credit Market Analysis, a provider of independent data for the OTC markets, including credit derivatives and bonds. These solutions will further our depth of products in the fixed income valuation space, especially in U.S. municipal instruments, as well as expand our data sets within the CDS market. SPSE, which we renamed Securities Evaluations upon completion of the acquisition, is currently being managed separately from the IDS valuation services and is expected to be integrated in 2017.

We intend to continue to invest to expand our data distribution offerings across asset classes, data types and services to serve the evolving needs of our global customer base. For additional information about our current data service offerings, see "Our Products and Services" below.












Our History





Our Competitive Strengths and Competition

Competitive Strengths

We operate global markets in the asset classes in which we compete, including futures, cash equities, equity options and OTC markets. We believe our key strengths include our:

•global data services including pricing and analytics, desktop and connectivity services across multiple asset classes for futures and OTC markets;

•diverse liquid, global derivatives and equities markets across 11 regulated exchanges as well as OTC venues;

•secure central counterparty clearing houses and risk management for global derivatives markets through 6 clearing houses;

•leading global cash equities, options and ETF trading venues together with leading equities and ETF listings venues; and

•widely-distributed, leading edge technology for trading, clearing, data and trade processing.

We are a leading global data provider and offer a range of data services based on data from our exchanges, markets and clearing houses, as well as analytics, valuation, reference data, desktop, benchmark services and connectivity services. Our acquisitions of SuperDerivatives, Interactive Data, Securities Evaluations and Credit Market Analysis have served to expand our data services based on rising demand for independent, real-time information, which is being driven by regulation, market fragmentation, passive investing and indexation, and increased automation. We provide data to global financial institutions and asset managers, commercial hedgers, corporates, traders and consumers across virtually all asset classes. We believe our data services are relevant to our clients’ business operations regardless of market volatility and price levels due to the need for continuous information and analysis. Our data connectivity services are operated out of data centers in the U.S. and Europe.










Our regulated exchanges and trading and clearing platforms offer qualified market participants access to our markets and risk management services, covering a range of asset classes, including interest rates, equities, energy, agricultural, metals, equity index, environmental, currencies, CDS and equity options. By operating several markets and offering thousands of products we provide our participants with flexibility to implement their trading and risk management strategies with common technology, integrated clearing and data solutions. We operate in multiple geographies and serve customers in dozens of countries as a result of products that are globally relevant.

Many of our futures contracts serve as global benchmarks for managing risk relating to exposure to price movements in the underlying products, including financial, energy and agricultural commodities. For example, we operate the leading market for trading in ICE Brent crude oil futures, as measured by the volume of contracts traded in 2016 according to the Futures Industry Association. The ICE Brent Crude futures contract is the benchmark for pricing light, sweet crude oil produced and consumed outside of the U.S. It is part of the Brent complex, which forms the price reference for approximately two-thirds of the world’s internationally-traded physical oil. Based on 2016 contract volume, nearly half of the world’s crude and refined oil futures contracts were traded through ICE Futures Europe. In 2015, open interest in Brent surpassed open interest in Nymex WTI. In addition, we operate a leading market for short-term European interest rates contracts, with our principal contracts based on implied forward rates on European Money Markets Institute Euribor rates and a short-term Sterling contract based on the ICE Libor rate. We also offer markets in soft commodity benchmark contracts, including sugar, cocoa, cotton, coffee and canola, which serve as global price benchmarks.

We offer a range of central clearing and related risk management services to promote the liquidity and security of our markets in jurisdictions around the world to meet local regulatory and operational needs in key financial market centers. The credit and performance assurance provided by our clearing houses to clearing members is designed to substantially reduce counterparty risk and is a critical component of our exchanges’ identities as reliable and secure marketplaces for global transactions. We believe the range of products cleared and the risk management services offered by our clearing houses are a competitive advantage and attract market participants. Our clearing houses are designed to protect the financial integrity of our markets by maintaining strong governance and rules, managing collateral, facilitating payments and collections, enhancing capital efficiency and limiting counterparty credit risk.

We operate the leading global listings and trading exchanges for equities and ETFs, and offer our customers access to the U.S. capital markets. Our listing venues allow companies to list domestic and international equity securities, corporate structured products, convertible bonds, trackers and debt securities. In 2016, the NYSE was the global leader in capital raising for the sixth consecutive year, with $120 billion raised in total IPO proceeds and follow-on offerings, including the largest U.S. IPO of the year.

Competition

The execution markets in which we operate are global and highly competitive. We face competition in all aspects of our business from a number of different enterprises, both domestic and international, including traditional exchanges, electronic trading platforms, data vendors and voice brokers. We believe we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including:

•depth and liquidity of markets;

•price transparency;

•reliability and speed of trade execution and processing;

•technological capabilities and innovation;

•breadth of products and services;

•rate and quality of new product developments;

•quality of service;

•stability of services;

•distribution and ease of connectivity;

•mid- and back-office service offerings, including differentiated and value-added services;

•transaction costs; and

•reputation.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors, and that our deep, liquid markets, breadth of product offerings, new product development, customer relationships and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services distinguish










us from our competitors. We believe that in order to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to develop new and innovative products and services, enhance our technology infrastructure, maintain liquidity and offer competitive costs.

In our derivatives markets, certain exchanges replicate our futures contracts. For example, CME Group lists our futures on agricultural and energy commodities, currency and equity index contracts. Nasdaq Futures, Inc., or NFX, an energy platform operated by Nasdaq has also listed certain of our energy contracts. We compete in European interest rates and equity derivatives with Eurex, which is the derivatives exchange operated by Deutsche Börse, NLX, a U.K. based multi-lateral trading facility operated by Nasdaq, and Curve Global, a consortium of banks and exchanges that lists interest rate futures. In the European utilities markets, we compete with EEX.

In addition to venues that offer futures products, we also face competition from electronic trading systems, third-party clearing houses and technology firms. Additional ventures could form, or have been formed, to provide services that could potentially compete with certain services that we provide.

We compete with voice brokers active in the credit derivatives markets, other electronic trading platforms for derivatives, clearing houses and market data vendors. ICE Swap Trade and Creditex compete with other swap execution facilities and large inter-dealer brokers in the credit derivatives market.

We face significant competition with respect to equities trading, and this competition is expected to remain intense. Our current and prospective competitors include regulated markets, dark pools and other alternative trading systems, market makers and other execution venues. We also face competition from large brokers and customers that may assume the role of principal and act as counterparty to orders originating from retail customers, or by matching their respective order flows through bilateral trading arrangements, including through internalization of order flow.

Our principal competitor for listings in the U.S. is Nasdaq OMX Group, Inc., or Nasdaq OMX. For ETF listings, we compete with Nasdaq OMX and BATS. We also face competition for foreign issuer listings from a number of stock exchanges outside the U.S., including the London Stock Exchange, Deutsche Börse, Euronext and stock exchanges in Hong Kong and Toronto. As other liquidity venues seek exchange status, we may face more competition for listings.

NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex Options face considerable competition in the equity options markets. Their principal U.S. competitors are the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., or CBOE, BATS and Nasdaq OMX.

ICE Data Services operates in a competitive environment for all its constituent parts. Our Exchange Data products compete with similar offerings by other exchange groups. That competition and the competition for order flow among the exchange groups creates a competitive pricing environment for our proprietary data products. Pricing and Analytics competes with information obtained from informal industry relationships and sources, such as broker quotes. It, along with the Desktop and Connectivity business, compete with purchased third-party information and services from large global suppliers of financial market data, such as Bloomberg L.P., Thomson Reuters Corporation, IHSMarkit and SIX Financial. Our Connectivity business, SFTI, competes with other extranet providers such as CenturyLink and Transaction Network Services, known as TNS.



Our Growth Strategy

Throughout our history, we have expanded our core exchange, clearing and data businesses both organically and through acquisitions, developed innovative new products for global markets, and provided services to a larger and more diverse participant base. In addition, we have completed a number of strategic alliances to leverage our core strengths and grow our business. We seek to advance our leadership position in our markets by focusing our efforts on the following key strategies for growth:

•expand our data offerings to address the rising demand for information;

•expand on our extensive trading, clearing and risk management capabilities;

•maintain leadership in our listing businesses;

•enhance our technology infrastructure and increase distribution; and

•pursue select acquisitions and strategic relationships that maximize customer and shareholder benefits.

The record consolidated revenues and trading volume we achieved in 2016 reflect our focus on the implementation and execution of our long-term growth strategy.

Expand our Data Offerings to Address the Rising Demand for Information

With the growth of our ICE derivatives markets and NYSE equity markets, we have strengthened and enhanced our data services due to demand for more data solutions. This has been driven by many factors, and accelerated following the financial crisis due to increased automation, regulation and demand for independent real-time information. To build on our exchange data and connectivity business, in December 2015, we acquired Interactive Data, which is now part of ICE Data Services, which supports our










growth strategy by expanding the markets we serve and adding new data, connectivity and valuation services. As a result, we currently produce daily evaluated prices for more than 2.7 million fixed income securities and other illiquid instruments, with an array of additional analytics and related services. By bringing together a wide range of data products, we offer customers efficiencies in accessing data while serving the growing demand for data, analysis, valuation and connectivity globally by innovating new solutions to address the need for more transparency, efficiency and information.

Also in December 2015, we acquired Trayport. Trayport is a software company that licenses its technology to serve brokers, exchanges and traders to facilitate electronic and hybrid trade execution primarily in the energy markets. This acquisition enables us to provide new technology and software-related services to our energy customers. The U.K. Competition and Markets Authority, or the CMA, undertook a review of our acquisition of Trayport under the merger control laws of the U.K. During the pendency of the review, we did not integrate Trayport into our existing business operations. For additional information regarding the Trayport acquisition, refer to Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Recent Developments”, which is included in this Annual Report.

In October 2016, we acquired from S&P Global, Securities Evaluations and Credit Market Analysis, which are now part of the suite of pricing and analytics products and services that comprise ICE Data Services. We will continue to look for strategic opportunities to grow our data offerings and will also continue to pursue opportunities in markets we do not currently serve but where it expands the ways in which we can serve our customers.

Expand on Our Extensive Trading, Clearing and Risk Management Capabilities

Our derivatives customer base has grown and diversified as a result of several drivers, including adding new markets and products, the move toward increased risk management and counterparty credit management, mark-to-market and margining services, and regulatory requirements. We continue to add new participants to our markets, which bring additional demand for new products and services. Our markets support price transparency and risk management, particularly in times of volatility and in many markets for products where there is less liquidity. In addition, the use of hedging, trading and risk management programs by commercial enterprises continues to rise based on the availability of technology to deliver more products, as well as the security and the capital efficiencies offered by clearing. We develop new products, but have also increased our capabilities through licenses and acquisitions of companies and intellectual property. Further, by acquiring, building and maintaining our own geographically diverse clearing operations, we are able to respond to market demand for central clearing and related risk management services across diverse geographic and regulatory jurisdictions. As new markets evolve, we intend to leverage our domain knowledge to meet additional demand for cleared products and related risk management solutions.

As requirements for regulatory compliance and capital efficiencies grow, the use of clearing, data and related post-trade services such as independent data providers and benchmark services also continues to grow. We intend to continue to expand our customer base by leveraging our existing relationships and our global sales and marketing team to promote participation in our markets, and by expanding our range of products and services.

Maintain Leadership in our Listing Businesses

The following chart depicts 2016 global capital proceeds raised on various listings venues:





In our NYSE listings business, we will continue to focus on enhancing our product offerings and services to retain and attract companies of all sizes and industries to our listing venues. In 2016, demand for our listing services continued to be strong in terms of new listings and secondary offerings. A total of 534 new issuers listed on NYSE markets in 2016 and there are over 2,400 total companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NYSE MKT. NYSE was the leader in capital raising in 2016 with $120 billion raised in 398 transactions. The New York Stock Exchange listed 38 IPOs in 2016 raising total IPO proceeds of $13 billion, including










the largest U.S. IPO of 2016. The NYSE has listed all 25 of the last 25 IPOs greater than $700 million in proceeds, and in the last three years, the NYSE has listed 27 of the 30 largest IPOs.

In ETFs, as of December 31, 2016, NYSE Arca's listed ETFs had nearly $2.4 trillion in assets under management, or AUM, representing nearly 92% of all U.S. listed ETFs. We strive to maintain our leadership position by offering ETF issuers:

•guidance through the complete listings process, including expert consultations around regulatory and legal items;

•a decade of experience in listing more than 2,500 ETFs across a wide range of asset classes and investment strategies;

•a focus on customer service from experienced ETF professionals;

•the highest liquidity of any exchange and some of the narrowest quoted bid / ask spreads; and

•Lead Market Maker, or LMM, and incentive programs.



Enhance Our Technology Infrastructure and Increase Distribution

We develop and maintain our own network infrastructure, electronic trading platform and clearing systems to ensure scalability and the delivery of technology that meets our expanding base’s demands for price transparency, reliability, risk management and transaction efficiency. We intend to continue to increase ease of access and connectivity with our existing and prospective market participants. We develop and maintain our trading and clearing systems, as well as our data solutions and many post-trade systems such as ICE Link and ICE Trade Vault, among others. We are developing a new integrated trading platform and matching engine known as NYSE Pillar that will eventually serve each of our U.S. cash equities and equity options markets to improve performance and reduce the cost and complexity of operating multiple trading systems. We also own and operate two data centers and offer connectivity solutions to global exchanges and content service providers via dedicated data circuits.

Pursue Select Acquisitions and Strategic Relationships that Maximize Customer and Shareholder Benefits

As an early consolidator in global markets to build out our markets and services for customers, we intend to continue to explore and pursue acquisitions and other strategic opportunities to strengthen our competitive position globally, broaden our product offerings and service, and support the growth of our company while maximizing shareholder value as measured by return on invested capital, earnings and cash flow growth. We may enter into business combinations, make acquisitions or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures or alliances, any of which may be material. In addition to growing our business, we may enter into these transactions for a variety of additional reasons, including leveraging our existing strengths to enter new markets, expanding our products and services, addressing underserved markets, advancing our technology, anticipating or responding to regulatory change or potential changes in our industry.
















Our Products and Services



The primary services we provide are price discovery and trade execution, listings, trade processing and data repositories, clearing and related post-trade activities, data services and benchmark administration. As a result of the growth of our exchange business and our acquisitions of Interactive Data, Securities Evaluations and Credit Market Analysis, our data services have become a more prominent part of our business, however Securities Evaluations is currently operated separately until fully integrated. Trading in our regulated markets is available to our members and market participants. Once trades are executed on our derivatives platforms, they are matched and forwarded to a trade registration system that routes them to the applicable clearing house. In our clearing houses, derivatives trades are maintained by our risk management systems until the positions are settled and closed. Our exchanges are regulated and are responsible for carrying out self-regulatory functions and have governance, compliance, surveillance and market supervision functions. In our data businesses, we produce, package and distribute proprietary data, as well as provide market connectivity, hosting and other applications to meet the informational needs of market participants. The following provides a summary of our products and services:

Energy Futures Contracts

Agricultural Futures Contracts

ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Europe are our regulated, leading commodity futures exchanges for the trading of agricultural commodities. The prices for our agricultural contracts serve as global benchmarks for the physical commodity markets, including










Sugar No. 11® (world raw sugar), white sugar, Coffee “C”® (Arabica coffee), robusta coffee, Cotton No. 2® (cotton), U.S. and London cocoa and frozen concentrated orange juice.

ICE Futures Canada is the only regulated commodity futures exchange in Canada and it facilitates the trading of futures and options on futures contracts for canola, milling wheat, durum wheat and barley. ICE Futures Canada contracts are designed to provide effective pricing, trading and hedging tools to market participants worldwide. ICE Futures Canada’s canola futures contract is the worldwide price benchmark for canola.

Financial Futures Contracts

ICE Futures Europe makes available for trading a range of financial futures products, including interest rate, equity index, and currency derivative products. Core products are short-term interest rate, or STIR, contracts, with its principal STIR contracts based on implied forward rates denominated in euro and sterling, such as Euribor, short-term Sterling and Gilt contracts, as well as U.S. rates including Eurodollar and GCF repo futures.

ICE Futures U.S. offers financial products in currency, equity index and credit index markets, including contracts on certain MSCI indices. We entered into an agreement with MSCI, Inc. under which we license the right to list futures and options contracts on a broad range of MSCI equity indices, most notably the Emerging Markets and EAFE indices.

ICE Futures U.S. lists futures and options contracts for approximately 60 currency pair contracts including euro-based, U.S. dollar-based, yen-based, sterling-based and other cross-rates, as well as the benchmark U.S. Dollar Index (USDX®) futures contract.

Securities Products and Listings

We offer securities trading products and listings through our securities exchanges: the NYSE, NYSE MKT and NYSE Arca. We provide multiple marketplaces for investors, broker-dealers and other market participants to meet directly to buy and sell equities, fixed income securities and ETFs. One of the primary functions of our markets is to ensure that orders to purchase and sell securities are executed in a reliable, orderly, liquid and efficient manner.

Through our listing venues, we offer our customers access to the capital markets in the U.S. We allow companies to list domestic and international equity securities, corporate structured products, convertible bonds, ETFs and bonds.

Through our equity options exchanges, we offer multi-listed options on U.S. equities.

Credit Derivatives Instruments

We offer electronic trade execution for CDS instruments through Creditex Brokerage, which is authorized and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA, and the CFTC, and Creditex, our U.S. based interdealer broker, which is regulated by the CFTC. ICE Swap Trade provides electronic execution for the OTC credit markets. We offer clearing services for the CDS markets through ICE Clear Europe and ICE Clear Credit. Both CDS clearing houses are open-access and therefore accept qualifying trades for clearing that are executed on other venues.

CDS are derivative instruments that involve a credit risk transfer between counterparties with respect to fixed income instruments such as corporate and sovereign debt securities. CDS are mainly used to hedge against credit risk exposure related to a particular reference entity for a specified debt obligation or debt instrument.

We also operate ICE Link, which is an automated trade workflow and electronic connectivity platform for affirming credit derivatives transactions. It also provides connectivity between participants, facilitating straight-through processing to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation’s Trade Information Warehouse for non-cleared CDS transactions or to a clearing house for CDS transactions that are clearing eligible.

OTC Energy Products

Our OTC energy markets comprise the trading of bilateral energy contracts. We operate our financially settled bilateral energy markets through ICE Swap Trade and we offer electronic trading of contracts based on physically settled natural gas, power and refined oil products through ICE U.S. OTC Commodity Markets.

As of December 31, 2016, approximately 550 OTC energy contracts were listed on our electronic trading platform for bilateral trading. A substantial portion of our OTC volume relates to approximately 70 contracts in North American natural gas and power, and global oil.

ICE Data Services (IDS)

Pricing and Analytics












IDS’ Pricing and Analytics service provides global security evaluations, reference data, risk analytics, derivative pricing and other information designed to support financial institutions’ and investment funds’ trading, pricing activities, research, portfolio management, reporting and regulatory compliance.

We provide bond valuations to approximately 5,000 clients worldwide, including independent evaluated pricing services on over 2.7 million fixed income securities and other hard-to-value financial instruments. Our evaluated pricing spans approximately 135 countries and covers a wide range of financial instruments including sovereign, corporate and municipal bonds, structured products, leveraged loans and derivatives, and our Fair Value Information Services for international equities, options and futures. In addition, we collect, edit and normalize end-of-day pricing data, obtained from a variety of sources, including approximately 200 financial markets and exchanges globally. Clients need to value these financial instruments to meet regulatory requirements and to enable a range of mission-critical processes within their back, middle and front office.

IDS has innovated to address the need for more intraday bond market transparency and pricing information. For example, Continuous Evaluated Pricing service extends the reach of fixed income end-of-day evaluations into intraday applications. Evaluations are updated throughout the trading day as market information, including dealer quotes and trades, is received and processed. Our Best Execution service leverages our Continuous Evaluated Pricing to help traders, portfolio managers and compliance officers more closely monitor trading activities and measure trading effectiveness and quality across a growing number of venues and protocols.

Our liquidity indicators service provides an independent view of near-term relative liquidity to support clients’ liquidity risk management needs. The service provides estimates of trade volume capacity, future price volatility, days to liquidate, and market price impact at both the instrument and portfolio level.

Our recently acquired Securities Evaluations business also provides fixed income evaluated pricing services, especially within the U.S. municipal bond space, to a wide range of financial companies. Until this business is integrated into IDS, it is being managed separately from Interactive Data Pricing and Reference Data LLC. In addition, Credit Market Analysis is a provider of independent data for the OTC markets, including credit derivatives and bonds. Securities Evaluations and Credit Market Analysis are part of our suite of pricing and analytics products and services.

SuperDerivatives, now part of IDS, provides valuation calculation services for OTC derivatives and structured products, specializing in complex instruments while offering multi-asset front office solutions. The offering includes a dedicated, in-house quantitative analysis team, secure and scalable grid computing, and broad coverage of implied volatility surfaces, correlations, and curves.

Our reference data complements our evaluated pricing services by offering our clients a broad range of descriptive information, covering over 10 million global financial instruments. This data is used by clients to enhance risk management, support compliance with regulatory mandates and improve operational efficiency across their organizations. We compile information from an extensive range of sources, including exchanges, underwriters, government agencies, issuers and other authoritative sources.

IDS also offers a range of regulatory solutions services designed to help clients meet the ever increasing demands placed upon the financial industry by global regulations. These services support the data and analytics requirements of our clients’ compliance workflow, enabling them to more efficiently meet their commitments. Our products are developed to assist clients across sectors such as banking, insurance, asset management, and other financial organizations.

Our BondEdge® fixed income and equity portfolio analytics offerings provide financial institutions with data as well as proprietary fixed income and equity portfolio analytics to help analyze risk and return. These offerings are used by investment professionals to simulate various market environments to help forecast performance, construct portfolios, validate investment strategies, conduct stress testing, generate dynamic risk measures, analyze asset cash flows and support regulatory compliance requirements.

IDS designs and distributes many of today’s leading indices and benchmarks across equities, fixed income and derivatives markets. ICE Bond Index Series is a broad representation of the U.S. investment grade, high-yield and treasury markets published in local currency terms, and include numerous metric and analytic values. Our energy benchmarks cover popular trading areas of the market, such as ICE Brent Crude futures, more than 100 North American natural gas and power hubs, and a variety of other energy markets. Our ETF Valuations and Index Construction offering provides clients with independent and objective operational outsourcing, including design, support, maintenance, calculation and distribution of indices across fixed income instruments, currencies, equities, and commodities.

Exchange Data

We publish a broad range of historical prices and other transaction data and related content from our electronic futures trading platform and clearing houses. The data is disseminated through data vendors and directly to end users via real time feeds in a number of formats. The real-time packages are accessed on a per-user subscription basis.










We distribute real-time market data from our securities exchanges. This data includes price, transaction and order book data on all of the instruments traded on NYSE’s markets. The data is disseminated through data vendors and directly to market participants. NYSE provides two types of market data products and services: data products required by the regulations governing the National Market Systems, or NMS, plans and proprietary data products.

The NMS consolidated data products meet the SEC requirement for securities markets to work together in consolidating their bids, offers and last sale prices for each security, and to provide this information to the public on a consolidated basis. Last sale prices and quotes in the New York Stock Exchange-listed, NYSE MKT-listed and NYSE Arca-listed securities are disseminated through Tape A and Tape B, which constitute the majority of our NYSE market data revenues. We also receive a share of the revenues from Tape C, which represents data related to trading of certain securities (including ETFs) that are listed on Nasdaq.

In addition, we make certain equity market data available, which is known as proprietary data. We package this type of market data as real-time products and as historical products used for analysis by traders, researchers and academics. These products are proprietary to ICE, and we do not share the revenues that they generate with other markets. Proprietary data that provides real-time quoting or trading information regarding our markets is subject to review by the SEC. In addition, the pricing for these market data products is subject to review by the SEC on the basis of whether prices are fair, reasonable and not unfairly discriminatory.

Desktops and Connectivity

Our Desktop service offers a range of products and services supporting an array of trading, wealth management, and other investment applications. These applications deliver real-time financial market information and decision support tools to help clients analyze financial markets and make investment decisions. Similarly, our web-based financial information solutions consist of market data, decision-support tools and hosting services. Our robust instant messaging, or IM, system protects the privacy of clients’ business information while allowing collaboration with other market participants in the industry through a secure, compliant channel.

We offer connectivity solutions to access markets and data through highly secure, resilient and low latency network options, as well as global co-location services, and the Direct Market Access network of over 150 venues and 600 market data and news feeds. Our consolidated feeds solution provides cost-effective access to a range of real-time data sources. Clients who have agreements with any of over 460 global exchanges, trading venues and data sources covering listed and OTC securities can receive consolidated real-time and/or delayed feeds of such financial data. Our Consolidated Feed service is complemented by our Tick History service, which provides access to tick and trade data for global securities to assist clients with “best execution” requirements, transaction cost analysis and advanced charting applications. Our networks are secure, purpose-built, private multi-participant networks that provide customers connectivity to global exchanges and content service providers via dedicated data circuits with a design that ensures no single point of failure exists across the networks.



We operate purpose-built data centers in the U.K. and Mahwah, New Jersey and we manage systems in a third-party data center in Illinois to meet the needs of a largely electronic customer base. We offer server colocation space at our data centers for market participants to house their servers and applications on equivalent terms.

Trayport

Trayport licenses its technology to serve brokers, exchanges and traders to facilitate electronic and hybrid trade execution primarily in the energy markets. Although our acquisition of Trayport is currently under regulatory review, Trayport expected to enable us to provide new technology and software-related services to our energy customers. For additional information regarding the Trayport acquisition, refer to Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Recent Developments”, which is included in this Annual Report.

ICE Benchmark Administration (IBA)

IBA is the regulated administrator of a range of benchmarks. IBA has implemented processes, governance, systems and technology that enhance the transparency and security of benchmarks and services relied upon globally.

In February 2014, IBA was authorized by the FCA to commence administration of LIBOR as an independent and regulated benchmark administrator. Since authorization, IBA has been working with global industry associations, stakeholders and regulators to transition LIBOR and improve the integrity and transparency of the benchmark. IBA has established a robust oversight and governance framework, in addition to developing surveillance technology and analytical tools to operate the benchmark setting process.

In August 2014, IBA became the ICE Swap Rate, formerly ISDAFIX, administrator following appointment by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, or ISDA. The ICE Swap Rate benchmark represents the average mid-market swap rate for major currencies at selected maturities on a daily basis. Market participants use the rate to price and settle swap contracts and as a reference rate for floating rate bonds.










In March 2015, IBA became the administrator of the gold price. The London Bullion Market Association, or LBMA, Gold Price replaced the Gold Fixing Price that had been in existence since September 1919. The price is set in London twice a day and provides a published benchmark price that is widely used as an international pricing medium by producers, consumers, investors and central banks.

In September 2016, IBA became the operator of the ISDA SIMM Crowdsourcing Utility, which is a utility for establishing risk buckets for credit and equity assets. Market participants use these risk buckets in the calculation of initial margin for uncleared derivatives trades.

In December 2016, IBA was named by ISDA to be the Secretary to the ISDA Credit Derivatives Determinations Committees (DCs). Following a transition period of approximately six months, as DC Secretary IBA will become responsible for maintaining and operating all infrastructure required to administer the DC process and ensuring that the process is robust, transparent and meets regulatory and governance standards. The terms for administering the DC process are still being negotiated.

Clearing Services

We currently operate six clearing houses. Our clearing strategy is designed to provide financial stability to the markets served by us while providing capital efficiency and meeting the risk management, capital and regulatory requirements of a global marketplace. Our clearing houses clear, settle and guarantee the financial performance of futures contracts and options on futures contracts. ICE Clear Europe also clears European CDS instruments, and ICE Clear Credit clears North American, European, Asian-Pacific and Emerging Market CDS instruments. Through each of our clearing houses, we maintain a system for the performance of obligations for the products we clear. This system is supported by several mechanisms, including:

•rigorous clearing membership requirements;

•daily mark-to-market of positions and settlement of variation margin;

•intraday monitoring of open positions and market conditions;

•the calculation and posting of original/initial margin deposits;

•limited contribution of the clearing house's capital;

•process for conducting regular stress testing;

•maintenance of guaranty funds in which clearing members maintain deposits to mutualize losses; and

•broad assessment powers, all of which cover financial losses beyond the pre-funded guaranty funds.

The amount of margin and guaranty fund deposits fluctuates over time as a result of, among other things, the extent of open positions held at any point in time by market participants and the volatility of the market as reflected in the applicable margin rates for such contracts.

Clearing House Risk Management Practices

Our clearing houses have an excellent track record of risk management, and have never experienced an incident of a clearing member default which has required the use of the guaranty funds of non-defaulting clearing members or the assets of the clearing house. We have extensive risk management procedures in place to ensure we protect the interests of our clearing members and clearing houses. Each of our clearing houses has instituted a multi-layered risk management system of rules, policies and procedures to protect itself in the event of a clearing member default, starting with membership criteria and continuing to powers of assessment in the event of a clearing member default, generally as follows:












To ensure performance, our clearing houses maintain extensive technology and quantitative risk management systems, as well as financial and operational requirements for clearing members and minimum margin requirements for our cleared products. Our clearing houses use software based on industry standard margining conventions and on our proprietary models uniquely customized to our products to determine the appropriate margin requirements for each clearing member by simulating the possible gains and losses of complex portfolios based on price movements. Our clearing houses’ margin methodologies are independently validated on an annual basis.

In the event of a payment default by a member, the default procedures specified in the rules of that clearing house would apply. In general, the clearing houses would first apply assets of the defaulting member to cover the obligation. These include original/initial margin, variation margin, positions held at the clearing house and guaranty fund deposits of the clearing member. In addition, the clearing houses could make a demand for payment pursuant to any available guarantee provided by the parent or affiliate of the defaulting clearing member. If that is not sufficient, the clearing houses would use any designated contributions held by the clearing house itself, as applicable, the guaranty fund contributions of other members and funds collected through an assessment against all other non-defaulting members, to satisfy the remaining deficit, if any. As part of the powers and procedures designed to backstop financial obligations in the event of a default, each of our clearing houses may levy assessments on all of its clearing members if there are insufficient funds available to cover a deficit following the depletion of all assets in the guaranty fund.

Our risk management framework that applies to the clearing services for the CDS markets through ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear Europe is separate from that of our futures and options or non-CDS clearing operations. We also offer clearing services for CDS markets through ICE Clear Credit. We have established separate CDS risk pools for ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear Europe, including separate guaranty funds and margin accounts, meaning that the CDS positions are not combined with positions in our futures and options clearing houses. The CDS clearing houses have risk management systems that are designed specifically for CDS instruments and have independent governance structures. Our CDS clearing houses are open-access pursuant to regulatory requirements and therefore accept qualifying trades for clearing that are executed on other venues. As of December 31, 2016, our CDS clearing houses clear 455 single name instruments and 136 CDS indexes.

Our clearing houses require that each clearing member make deposits to the guaranty fund. The amounts in the guaranty fund serve to secure the obligations of a clearing member to our clearing houses and may be used to cover losses in excess of the margin and clearing firm accounts sustained by our clearing houses in the event of a default of a clearing member. As ofDecember 31, 2016, we have made combined contributions to our clearing houses guaranty funds of$253 million. ICE Clear Europe has contributed$100 millionof its own cash as part of its futures and options guaranty fund as ofDecember 31, 2016and has also contributed$50 millionof its own cash as part of its CDS guaranty fund as ofDecember 31, 2016. ICE Clear Credit has contributed$50 millionof its own cash as part of its CDS guaranty fund as ofDecember 31, 2016and ICE Clear U.S. has contributed$50 millionof its own cash as part of its futures and options guaranty fund as ofDecember 31, 2016. ICE Clear Canada, ICE Clear Netherlands and ICE Clear Singapore have each also contributed a combined $3 million in cash to their respective guaranty funds. Each of these amounts are reflected as long-term restricted cash in the consolidated balance sheet.

To provide a tool to address the liquidity needs of our clearing houses and manage the liquidation of margin and guaranty fund deposits held in the form of cash and high quality sovereign debt, ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear U.S. have entered into Committed Repurchase Agreement Facilities, or Committed Repo. Additionally, ICE Clear Credit has entered into Committed F/X Facilities to support these liquidity needs. As ofDecember 31, 2016, the following facilities were in place:



ICE Clear Europe:    $1.05 billion in Committed Repo to finance U.S. dollar, euro and pound sterling sovereign debt deposits.



ICE Clear Credit:$300 million in Committed Repo to finance U.S. dollar and euro sovereign debt deposits, €800 million in Committed Repo to finance euro sovereign debt deposits, and €1.0 billion in Committed F/X Facilities to finance euro payment obligations with U.S. dollar deposits.



ICE Clear U.S.:    $250 million in Committed Repo to finance U.S. dollar sovereign debt deposits.




























Our Customer Base



Derivatives Markets

Customers in our derivatives markets include market participants seeking to trade and manage risk. They include those served by our energy, financial, and agricultural markets, including, commodity producers and consumers, financial institutions, money managers, trading firms, and other business entities.

Securities Trading and Listings

Securities trading and listings customers include various market participants in the equities markets, from financial institutions, institutional investors, wholesalers, hedge funds, quantitative funds, algorithmic traders and individual investors to companies looking to raise capital and list their securities on one of our equity exchanges. Our customers are also our members, which are entities registered as broker-dealers with the SEC that have obtained trading permits or licenses in accordance with, and subject to the rules of, the exchange in which they are members.

Our global listings businesses offer capital raising to and trading of over 2,400 companies globally, representing over $25 trillion in market capitalization as of December 31, 2016. NYSE’s listed companies represent a diverse range of sectors, including technology, financial services, consumer brands, industrial, transportation, media, energy and mining. These companies meet minimum initial and ongoing listings requirements, including governance and financial standards, as established by the exchange.

Data Services



ICE Data Services distributes data globally to every aspect of today’s financial services industry. Within the multitude of the trading environments (for example: commodity trading companies, proprietary trading firms, futures commission merchants), ICE services are used to execute trades more effectively. Buy side clients utilize our products in every aspect of their organizations, from security selection, risk management, and compliance of mission critical operations, such as fund valuation. In addition, our services are also used by hundreds of value added resellers, such as custodians, wealth managers, software providers, and other outsourcing organizations who use our products and services across their front, middle and back offices.



Product Development

We leverage our customer relationships, global distribution, technology infrastructure and software development capabilities to diversify our products and services. New product development is an ongoing process, and we are continually developing, evaluating and testing new products for introduction into our markets to better serve our client base. The majority of our product development










relates to evaluating new contracts or new markets based on customer demand. New contracts often must be reviewed and approved by relevant regulators. Outside of third-party licensing costs, we typically do not incur separate, material costs for the development of new products - such costs are embedded in our normal costs of operation.

While we have historically developed our products and services internally, we also periodically evaluate and enter into strategic partnerships and licensing arrangements to develop meaningful new products and services.



Technology

Technology is a key component of our business strategy, and we regard effective execution of our technology initiatives as crucial to our success. Where feasible, we design and build our software systems and believe that having control over our technology allows us to be more responsive to the needs of our customers, better support the dynamic nature of our business and deliver the highest quality markets and data. Our proprietary systems are built using state-of-the-art technology. A significant number of our employees work in technology, including product management, project management, system architecture, software development, network engineering, information security, performance, systems analysis, quality assurance, database administration and customer technical support.

ICE Trading Platforms and Technology

The ICE trading platform supports trading in our cleared futures and options markets as well as our bilateral OTC markets. We also offer voice brokers a facility for submitting block trades for products that are eligible for clearing.

Speed, reliability, scalability and capacity are critical performance criteria for electronic trading platforms.  Connectivity to our trading platform for our markets is available through our web-based front-end, as well as multiple independent software vendors, or ISVs, and application programming interfaces, or APIs.

NYSE Trading Platforms and Related Technology

The NYSE electronic trading platform features an open system architecture that allows users to access our system via one of the many front-end trading applications developed by ISVs. For equity options, we offer a hybrid model of electronic and open outcry trading through NYSE Amex Options and NYSE Arca Options. We have developed a new integrated trading platform and matching engine known as NYSE Pillar and have migrated Arca Equities to this platform. In the future, we will complete the migration for the remaining four U.S. cash equities and equity options markets which currently operate on distinct platforms. The single specification will improve performance and reduce the cost and complexity of operating multiple equity and options trading systems.

ICE Data Services Technology

ICE Data Services technology supports solutions for mission-critical information, analytics and connectivity. Our technology centers around an integrated platform for the capture, maintenance and synthesis of information. This platform includes a single configurable data capture mechanism, a common data model, and a flexible multi-format delivery capability. The platform enables real-time processing and delivery of information, accelerates new product development, improves production reliability, and yields operating and cost efficiencies as the pre-existing heterogeneous environment is retired. Our information is delivered via real-time messaging protocols, files, web services and other on-demand facilities, and state-of-the-art front-ends.

Clearing Technology

A broad range of trade management and clearing services are offered through the integrated technology infrastructure that serves our clearing houses. ICE Clearing Systems encompass a number of integrated systems, including post-trade position management, risk management, settlement, treasury and reporting functions.

A core component of our derivatives clearing houses is the risk management of clearing firm members. Our extensive technology and rules-based risk system provides analytical tools to determine margin, to determine credit risk, and monitor risk of the clearing members. The risk system also monitors trading activities of the clearing members.

Cybersecurity

Cybersecurity is critical to our operations. We employ a defense-in-depth strategy, employing leading-edge security technology and processes including encryption, firewalls, virus prevention, intrusion prevention and detection systems and secured servers. Where our services are accessible via the Internet, we have implemented additional restrictions to limit access to specific approved networks. We also maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy and payment of significant deductibles, cover certain aspects of cybersecurity issues. We monitor physical threats in addition to cyber threats and continuously review and update physical security and environmental controls to secure our office and data center locations.










Business Continuity Planning and Disaster Recovery

We maintain comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans and facilities to provide nearly continuous availability of our markets in the event of a business disruption or disaster. We maintain incident and crisis management plans that address responses to disruptive events at any of our locations worldwide.



Intellectual Property

We rely on a wide range of intellectual property, both owned and licensed, for our electronic platforms. We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the U.S., Europe and in other parts of the world. We have registered many of our trademarks in the U.S. and in certain other countries. We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. We also own the copyright to a variety of material. Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include software code, printed and online publications, websites, advertisements, educational material, graphic presentations and other literature, both textual and electronic. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods.

This Annual Report also includes references to third party trademarks, trade names and service marks. Our use or display of any such trademarks, trade names or service marks is not an endorsement or sponsorship and does not indicate any relationship between us and the parties who own such marks and names.

Employees

As of December 31, 2016, we had a total of 5,631 employees, with 834 employees in Atlanta, 1,790 employees in New York, 967 employees in the U.K. and a total of 2,040 employees across our other offices around the world. Of our total employee base, less than 1% is subject to collective bargaining arrangements, and such relations are considered to be good.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information relating to our executive officers is included under “Executive Officers” in Part III, Item 10, “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” of this Annual Report.



Regulation

Our markets are primarily subject to the jurisdiction of regulatory agencies in the U.S., U.K., the European Union, or EU, Canada and Singapore. Failure to satisfy regulatory requirements can or may give rise to sanctions by the applicable regulator.

Regulation of our Derivatives Business

Our regulated derivatives markets and clearing houses are based primarily in the U.S., U.K., EU, Canada and Singapore. Our U.S. futures exchange is subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act, or CEA. The CEA generally requires that futures trading in the U.S. be conducted on a commodity exchange registered as a Designated Contract Market, or DCM. As a registered DCM, ICE Futures U.S. is a self-regulatory organization, or SRO, that has instituted rules and procedures to comply with the core principles applicable to it under the CEA. In the U.K., ICE Futures Europe is a Recognized Investment Exchange, or RIE, in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, or FSMA. Like U.S. regulated derivatives markets, RIEs are SROs with surveillance and compliance responsibilities. ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear U.S. are regulated by the CFTC as Derivatives Clearing Organizations, or DCOs. DCOs are subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC under the CEA. ICE Clear Europe, which is primarily regulated in the U.K. by the Bank of England as a Recognized Clearing House, or RCH, is also subject to regulation by the CFTC as a DCO. Both ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear Europe are also regulated by the SEC as clearing agencies because they clear security-based swaps.

The Financial Stability Oversight Council, or FSOC, has designated ICE Clear Credit as a systemically important financial market utility under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. As such, ICE Clear Credit has access to the Federal Reserve System and holds deposits of $7.3 billion of its U.S. dollar cash in its cash accounts at the Federal Reserve as of December 31, 2016.

Regulation of our Securities Business

In our cash equities and options markets, the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Arca and NYSE MKT are national securities exchanges and, as such, are SROs and subject to oversight by the SEC. Accordingly, our U.S. securities exchanges are regulated by the SEC and, in turn, are the regulators of their members. As national securities exchanges, the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Arca and NYSE MKT must comply with, and enforce compliance by their members with, the Securities Exchange Act.










Regulation of our Data Business

As a result of our evaluated pricing operations, we have subsidiaries that are registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act for their evaluated pricing services. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including record-keeping, operational and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations.

Regulatory Reform

Domestic and foreign policy makers have undertaken ongoing reviews of their legal frameworks governing financial markets following the 2009 financial crisis, and have either passed new laws and regulations, or are in the process of debating and/or enacting new laws and regulations that apply to our business and to our customers’ businesses. Our key areas of focus on these evolving efforts are:

•The synchronization of regulations globally. Global regulations have not been fully harmonized and several of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II’s, or MIFID II, regulations are counter to U.S. rules. In addition, as a result of the U.S. elections, there is potential for further divergence between MIFID II and U.S. rules if the new administration makes changes to financial regulations while the EU continues with MIFID implementation.

•The harmonization of regulations relating to margin in the U.S. and EU. In March 2016, the European Commission adopted a decision relating to U.S. CFTC regulatory equivalence and margin treatment for clearing houses. The equivalence decision allows European clearing houses to margin customers at a one day gross margin period of risk (equivalent to the U.S. rules for clearing houses) and, with respect to CFTC regulated products, requires U.S. clearing houses to margin proprietary positions at a two day net margin period of risk (equivalent to the European rules for clearing houses). U.S. clearing houses are also required to demonstrate implementation of specific anti-procyclicality measures, equivalent to European regulatory standards. The equivalence decision exempts U.S. agricultural products (including ICE Futures U.S.’s coffee, cocoa, cotton and sugar contracts) from these changes. Pursuant to the recognition afforded under the equivalence decision, European customers will be able to continue to access our CFTC regulated U.S. clearing houses with respect to CFTC regulated products. Similarly, ICE Clear Europe will be able to margin customers in a manner similar to U.S. clearing houses.

•We continue to gain recognition of our businesses in foreign jurisdictions. In September 2016, the Bank of England authorized ICE Clear Europe as a central counterparty clearing house, or CCP, in accordance with European Market Infrastructure Regulation, or EMIR. Additionally, in September 2016, ESMA granted recognition to ICE Clear Credit as a third-country CCP for products regulated by the CFTC. The European Securities and Markets Authority, or ESMA, also issued ICE Clear Credit further relief for security-based swaps, which are regulated by the SEC, while the European Commission works toward an equivalence determination with respect to the recently finalized SEC regulations. In December 2016, ESMA granted recognition to ICE Clear US as a third-country CCP for products regulated by the CFTC.

•The non-discriminatory access provisions of MiFID II as currently drafted, would require our European exchanges and CCPs to offer access to third parties on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, MiFID II could require our European exchanges to allow participants to trade and/or clear at other venues, which may encourage competing venues to offer our products. In June 2016, the European Union approved a twelve-month postponement of MiFID II implementation and compliance to January 1, 2018.

•The implementation of capital charges in Basel III, particularly the Supplemental Leverage Ratio with respect to certain clearing members of central counterparties. These new standards may impose burdensome capital requirements on our clearing members and customers that may disincentivize clearing.

•The adoption and implementation of position limit rules in the U.S. and Europe, which could have an impact on our commodities business if comparable trading venues in foreign jurisdictions are not subject to equivalent rules. In December 2016, the CFTC re-proposed the position limit rules as opposed to finalizing the rule. Conversely,position limits will be implemented in Europe beginning January 2018 under MiFID II.

•The proposed European financial transaction taxes are uncertain. In September 2015, 11 European nations, including France, Germany and the Netherlands, met to discuss implementing a financial transaction tax on equities and derivatives trading. While certain of the participants reached a broad political agreement on instituting the tax, many details are left to be concluded, including how to assess the tax at a member state level. Implementation of a financial transaction tax could have a distortive effect on our European operations if adopted.

•The EU Benchmark Regulation, or BMR, was adopted in June 2016, and requires any entity using a benchmark provided by a third country benchmark administrator to register with ESMA. ICE Data Services plans to apply to ESMA for recognition. As the recognition process is new, the timeframe for registration is currently unknown.










•Brexit timing and implications have not yet been determined. We are monitoring the impact to our business of the U.K. leaving the EU. The impact to our business and corresponding regulatory changes are uncertain at this time, and may not be known in the near future.

Please see the discussion below and Item 1(A) “- Risk Factors” in this Annual Report for additional description of regulatory and legislative risks and uncertainties.

Corporate Citizenship

We strive to create long-term value for our shareholders and maintain high ethical and business standards. We are active in the communities where we operate and support charitable organizations through a combination of financial resources and through employee participation. We also operate the ICE NYSE Foundation that has a commitment to supporting our communities, financial literacy and veterans’ programs. We also host programs for our issuers on governance topics to provide a forum for advancing their efforts on environmental, social and governance matters. We provide additional information in our Sustainability Report, which can be located in the Corporate Citizenship section of our website.

With regard to environmental markets, we own Climate Exchange PLC and are today the leading operator of global emissions and environmental products markets, which enabled us to expand and support the development of emissions markets. We have invested further to develop new environmental products on our exchanges, including carbon emissions, aviation allowances, renewable energy certificate contracts, California carbon allowance contracts and biofuel products related to renewable identification numbers.

Available Information

Our principal executive offices are located at 5660 New Northside Drive, 3rd Floor, Atlanta, Georgia 30328. Our main telephone number is 1-770-857-4700, and our website is www.intercontinentalexchange.com.

We are required to file reports and other information with the SEC. A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any future Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports are available free of charge, on our website (www.theice.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. A copy of these filings is also available at the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov). The reference to our website address and to the SEC's website address do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this report. You may read and copy any documents filed by us at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room.

In addition, we have posted on our website the charters for our (i) Audit Committee, (ii) Compensation Committee, (iii) Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and (iv) Risk Committee, as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which includes information regarding our whistleblower hotline information, Board of Directors Governance Principles and Board Communication Policy. We will provide a copy of these documents without charge to stockholders upon request.





