ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Business

We are a leading global network of regulated exchanges and clearing houses for financial and commodity markets. We operate global marketplaces for trading and clearing a broad array of securities and derivatives contracts across major asset classes, including interest rates, equities, equity derivatives, credit derivatives, bonds, currency, and commodities. On November 13, 2013, we completed our acquisition of NYSE Euronext.

We operate 17 global regulated exchanges including: ICE futures exchanges in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada and Europe, NYSE Liffe futures exchanges in the United Kingdom and the United States, the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Arca, NYSE MKT, the Euronext group of stock exchanges, two U.S. equity options exchanges, the Singapore Mercantile Exchange and over-the-counter, or OTC, markets for physical energy and credit default swaps, or CDS. We also operate six central counterparty clearing houses. We offer regulated markets for trading in equity and equity derivatives, futures and OTC markets together with clearing houses, post-trade processing and market data services. Through our widely-distributed electronic platforms, we bring together buyers and sellers by offering a range of services to support market participants’ trading and risk management activities.

Our business is conducted as a single reportable business segment, and substantially all of our identifiable assets are located in the United States, United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Singapore and Canada. See note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of our revenues, net assets and net property and equipment by geographic region.

Derivatives Exchanges

Our derivatives markets provide participants with a means for trading and managing risks associated with price volatility, securing physical delivery of certain contracts, as well as enabling investment, asset allocation and diversification. The majority of our commodity contract volume is either financially or cash settled, meaning that settlement is made through cash payments based upon the difference between the contract price and the value of the underlying commodity at contract expiry rather than through physical delivery of the commodity itself. Our futures contract volume is cleared through one of our central counterparty clearing houses. Our global customer base includes financial institutions, corporations, manufacturers, utilities, commodity producers and refiners, institutional and individual investors and governmental bodies. Our equity derivatives exchanges operate markets for exchange traded options based on underlying equities, equity indexes and exchange traded products.

We conduct our derivatives business through the following regulated exchanges:

•ICE Futures Europe operates as a Recognized Investment Exchange in the United Kingdom, or U.K., where it is supervised by the Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA. ICE Futures Europe is a leading exchange for global crude and refined oil futures contracts, as well as futures contracts based on European emissions, natural gas and power, global coal, freight, iron ore and natural gas liquids. Its members and market participants include many of the world’s largest energy companies, commercial energy consumers and financial institutions. ICE Futures Europe contracts are cleared by ICE Clear Europe, which is supervised by the Bank of England as a Recognized Clearing House. ICE Clear Europe is also registered as a Derivatives Clearing Organization, or DCO, by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and a Securities Clearing Agency, or SCA, in the United States, and has applied for authorization under what is known as the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, or EMIR. ICE Futures Europe has 185 member firms and offers its screens for electronic trading in 60 jurisdictions.



•NYSE Liffe, formerly a subsidiary of NYSE Euronext, is a derivatives market operated by LIFFE Administration and Management and Euronext in Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon, London and Paris. NYSE Liffe is a leading global futures and options exchange for trading interest rate, equity index and agricultural futures contracts. It also trades global futures and options commodity and currency futures contracts in Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon, London and Paris. NYSE Liffe also offers its customers the Bclear and Cscreen services. Bclear bridges the listed and OTC markets by providing registration, processing and clearing for wholesale markets, and Cscreen is an electronic pre-trade price discovery tool that provides an efficient means of disseminating prices between inter-dealer brokers and the equity derivatives trading community. NYSE Liffe is a Recognized Investment Exchange in the United Kingdom, where it is regulated by the FCA. ICE Clear Europe clears the contracts traded on NYSE Liffe. Its members total 168 firms, and its market participants include many of the world’s largest financial institutions, investment funds and asset managers, and end users. NYSE Liffe offers its screens for electronic trading in 37 jurisdictions.



•ICE Futures U.S. is a leading global futures and options exchange that lists futures and options for agricultural commodities, as well as futures and options contracts for equity indexes, currencies and North American natural gas












and power products. ICE Futures U.S. operates as a Designated Contract Market, or DCM, under the Commodity Exchange Act and is regulated by the CFTC. ICE Clear Europe clears the energy contracts traded on ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Clear U.S. clears the agricultural and financial contracts traded on ICE Futures U.S. Each clearing house is a DCO, regulated by the CFTC with respect to those activities. ICE Futures U.S. has 49 member firms and offers its screens for electronic trading in 34 jurisdictions.



•NYSE Liffe U.S. is a United States based futures exchange for U.S. interest rates, equity indexes and precious metals. In 2013, we announced that we will wind down the exchange operations of NYSE Liffe U.S. and migrate its futures contracts to our existing futures exchanges.



•ICE Futures Canada is Canada’s leading agricultural commodity futures and options exchange. ICE Futures Canada offers futures and options contracts on canola, milling wheat, durum wheat and barley. ICE Futures Canada is a recognized commodity futures exchange under the provisions of The Commodity Futures Act (Manitoba) and is regulated by the Manitoba Securities Commission. ICE Clear Canada which clears contracts traded on ICE Futures Canada, is a recognized clearing house under the provisions of The Commodity Futures Act (Manitoba) and is regulated by the Manitoba Securities Commission. ICE Futures Canada offers its screens for electronic trading in 19 jurisdictions.



•ICE Endex is a Continental European energy exchange that provides regulated, transparent and widely accessible markets for trading natural gas and power derivatives, gas balancing markets and gas storage services and is based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands and Nottingham, U.K. ICE Endex is the home of Europe's natural gas trading hub, the Title Transfer Facility Virtual Trading Point in the Netherlands. We are the majority owner of ICE Endex, with NV Netherlands Gasunie, a leading European gas infrastructure company, holding a minority stake.



•NYSE Amex Options is a U.S. equity options exchange that offers order execution through a hybrid model (both electronic and via open outcry on our trading floor adjoining the New York Stock Exchange) in approximately 2,300 options issues. Seven external investors hold a minority equity interest in NYSE Amex Options - Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays Capital, Citadel Securities, Citi, Goldman Sachs, TD AMERITRADE and UBS AG. We currently own 68% of NYSE Amex Options and consolidate this entity for financial reporting purposes.



•NYSE Arca Options is also a U.S. equity options exchange that offers order execution through a hybrid model (both electronic and via open outcry on our trading floor in San Francisco) in approximately 2,600 options issues. NYSE Arca Options offers a price-time priority trading model, utilizing state-of-the-art technology to encourage clients to provide liquidity.



•Singapore Mercantile Exchange, or SMX, operates futures markets in Singapore across metals, currencies, energy and agricultural commodities. We completed our acquisition of SMX on February 3, 2014. SMX retains licenses to operate as both an approved exchange and designated clearing house, providing us with exchange and clearing infrastructure in Asia for the first time. SMX is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.

OTC Markets

Our OTC markets include both regulated and unregulated platforms for the execution of cleared and bilateral, or non-cleared, CDS instruments and bilateral energy contracts, as well as equities. As a result of regulatory changes in the United States intended to offer greater regulatory and operational certainty to futures market participants relative to the swaps market, on October 15, 2012, we transitioned all of our OTC cleared energy contracts to futures contracts listed on ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Europe.



ICE Swap Trade, Creditex Group Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Creditex") and Creditex Brokerage provide trade execution in our CDS business. For most of 2013, we conducted our interdealer broker business through Creditex and Creditex Brokerage. On October 2, 2013, we launched ICE Swap Trade, our CFTC-registered swap execution facility, or SEF, offering electronic execution in OTC energy and CDS markets. ICE Swap Trade is authorized and regulated by the CFTC, and Creditex is an interdealer broker authorized and regulated by the CFTC and the SEC. We list our financially settled bilateral energy contracts on ICE Swap Trade and offer trading on our physically settled natural gas, power, and crude and refined oil product contracts for forward delivery on ICE U.S. OTC Commodity Markets.

Clearing Houses



We operate six clearing houses, each of which acts as a central counterparty (meaning we become the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer). The clearing houses provide financial security for each transaction for the duration of the position by












limiting counterparty credit risk. Our clearing houses are responsible for providing clearing services to each of our futures exchanges, and for certain of our clearing houses, for contracts traded outside of our execution venues. Our clearing houses are ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear U.S., ICE Clear Credit, ICE Clear Canada, The Clearing Corporation, or TCC, and SMX Clearing Corporation, or SMXCC (following our acquisition of SMX).

Cash Trading and Listings

Following our acquisition of NYSE Euronext, we provide multiple marketplaces for investors, broker-dealers and other market participants to meet directly to buy and sell cash equities, fixed income securities and exchange traded products, or ETPs, in our cash equities markets. One of the primary functions of our markets is to ensure that orders to purchase and sell securities are executed in a reliable, orderly, liquid and efficient manner. Order execution occurs through a variety of means, and we seek to continue to develop additional and more efficient mechanisms of trade. Through our listings, we offer our customers access to the capital markets in the United States and Europe.

We conduct our cash trading and listings business through the following exchanges and marketplaces:

•The New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, is a leading global equity exchange. We conduct our cash equity trading and U.S. listings business through NYSE. In addition to common stocks, preferred stocks and warrants, the NYSE lists  structured products, such as capital securities, mandatory convertibles and repackaged securities (excluding ETPs). The NYSE is the leading equity exchange for initial public offerings, or IPOs, globally and enables companies seeking to raise capital to become publicly listed through the IPO process upon meeting minimum exchange listing standards.

•Euronext comprises four cash equities exchanges based in Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon and Paris. Euronext's exchanges list a range of securities, including domestic and international equity securities, convertible bonds, warrants, trackers and debt securities, including corporate and government bonds. Euronext is a leading venue for European IPOs and capital raising. All of Euronext's markets are operated by subsidiaries of Euronext, N.V. As discussed below, we intend to pursue an initial public offering of Euronext in 2014.

•NYSE MKT, formerly NYSE Amex and prior to that, the American Stock Exchange, became part of NYSE Euronext in 2008 and is our U.S. listing venue for emerging growth companies. NYSE MKT also provides a listing venue for a broader range of companies than are qualified for listing on NYSE.

•NYSE Arca is a fully electronic exchange in the United States for equities, certificates, options and ETPs, which include exchange traded funds, or ETFs, exchange traded notes, and exchange traded vehicles.

•NYSE Alternext operates our European markets for emerging growth companies. NYSE Alternext-listed companies are required to satisfy less stringent listing standards than companies listing on Euronext. Companies listing on NYSE Alternext have greater flexibility in their choice of accounting standards and are subject to less extensive ongoing post-listing reporting requirements than companies listing on Euronext.

•NYSE Arca Europe is a pan-European multilateral trading facility, or MTF, operated by Euronext Amsterdam. NYSE Arca Europe offers a fully electronic, low latency trading platform for blue chip stocks from eleven European countries.

•SmartPool is a European dark pool in London dedicated to the execution of institutional order flow. The MTF was created in partnership with NYSE Euronext and three European investment banks (BNP Paribas, HSBC and J.P. Morgan).

NYSE and NYSE MKT combine both auction-based and electronic trading capabilities. These markets are intended to emulate, in a primarily automatic execution environment, the features of the traditional auction market that have provided stable, liquid and less volatile markets, as well as provide the opportunity for price and/or size improvement. The markets build on our core attributes of liquidity, pricing efficiency, low trading costs and tight spreads by broadening customers' ability to trade quickly and anonymously. NYSE "designated market makers" on the trading floor are charged with maintaining fair, orderly and continuous two-way trading markets by bringing buyers and sellers together and, in the relative absence of orders to buy or sell their assigned stock, adding liquidity by buying and selling the assigned stock for their own accounts. "Supplemental liquidity providers" are a class of high-volume members financially incentivized to add liquidity on the NYSE by fulfilling quoting requirements. "Floor brokers" act as agents on the trading floor to handle customer orders. Companies listing equity securities on our markets must meet minimum initial and ongoing financial and governance listing requirements.

NYSE Arca operates an all-electronic stock exchange for trading all U.S. listed securities and provides additional listing services for ETPs. NYSE Arca's trading platform provides customers with electronic execution and open, direct and anonymous market access. NYSE Arca operates the "lead market maker" program, whereby a lead market maker functions as the exclusive dedicated liquidity provider in NYSE Arca primary listings. Selected by the issuer, the lead market maker must meet minimum performance requirements determined by NYSE Arca, which include percentage of time at the national best bid and offer, average displayed size and average quoted spread, and must support the NYSE Arca opening and closing auctions.












Cash trading on Euronext's markets takes place via NYSE Euronext's Universal Trading Platform, or UTP. Cash trading in Euronext is governed both by a single harmonized rulebook for trading on each of Euronext's markets and by the various non-harmonized Euronext Rulebooks containing local exchange-specific rules. Euronext's trading rules provide for an order-driven market using an open electronic central order book for each traded security, various order types and automatic order matching and a guarantee of full anonymity both for orders and trades. At the option of the listed company, trading of less-liquid listed securities on the European markets can be supported by a "liquidity provider" who is either an existing member of Euronext and/or a corporate broker. The liquidity provider is dedicated to supporting the trading in less-liquid small and mid-sized companies to foster regular trading and minimize price volatility.

Market Data

We offer market data services across our markets. We compile and package market data derived from trading activity in our markets into products that are relied upon by customers all over the world. The broad distribution of accurate and reliable real-time market data is essential to the proper functioning of any cash or derivatives market because it enables market professionals and investors to make informed risk management and trading decisions. The quality of our market data, our collection and distribution facilities, and the ability of traders to act on the data we provide, attract liquidity to our exchanges and reinforce the role of our products in price discovery and market information. Our primary market data services include the provision of real-time information relating to price, transaction and order data on all of the instruments traded on the cash and derivatives markets of our exchanges. See "-ICE Data Market Data Services" and "-NYSE Euronext Market Data Services" below.

Planned Initial Public Offering of Euronext

As part of the NYSE Euronext integration, we expect to separate the businesses of Euronext and NYSE Liffe and to transition all of NYSE Liffe’s business to ICE futures exchanges, clearing houses and trading platforms. We plan to establish Euronext as an independent business and to pursue an initial public offering, or IPO, of Euronext, which is currently expected in the second quarter of 2014.

The separation of the NYSE Liffe and Euronext businesses is subject to certain regulatory approvals by the Euronext College of Regulators, the Dutch Ministry of Finance and the FCA. After the separation of the NYSE Liffe business, Euronext will be established with a new legal and operating structure, and will operate Euronext cash markets with the relevant listings, index, commodity, derivatives, data and technology businesses in Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon, London and Paris and Euronext continental derivatives markets.

In October 2013, Euronext agreed to new clearing terms with LCH.Clearnet under which Euronext will have certain governance rights and participate in certain of the clearing economics under a new revenue sharing agreement, which is set to begin in April 2014.

Euronext's business will include Interbolsa, the Portuguese central securities depository, securities settlement system and numbering agency. Euronext is expected to either own or have fully paid license rights to all relevant intellectual property, technology, market data and index licenses required to operate and develop its markets and service markets of its partners and expects to continue to develop the UTP and surrounding systems. Euronext's business will also include certain commercial technology and exchange solutions that were formerly part of NYSE Technologies, which will allow it to provide platform services to exchanges outside of the Euronext group.

We will continue to have regulatory obligations and undertakings with respect to Euronext after its planned separation and IPO until our ownership level decreases to a point at which we will not be deemed to control Euronext. As part of the IPO, we may be required to maintain an ongoing ownership stake in Euronext for a period of time unless long-term shareholders are identified and approved by the Euronext College of Regulators.

NYSE Technologies Planned Divestiture

NYSE Euronext operates a commercial technology business, NYSE Technologies, which provides comprehensive transaction, data and infrastructure services and managed solutions for buy-side, sell-side and exchange communities. NYSE Technologies operates five businesses: Global Market Data, Global Connectivity, Exchange Solutions, Trading Solutions and Transaction Services. We plan to integrate the Global Market Data and Global Connectivity businesses into our broader global trading markets where they will remain part of our exchange operations and technology infrastructure. Global Market Data offers a broad array of global market information products covering multiple asset classes while Global Connectivity offers a financial transaction network called Secure Financial Transaction Infrastructure, or SFTI, which connects firms and exchanges worldwide.












The Exchange Solutions business, which provides multi-asset exchange platform services, managed services and expert consultancy, is expected to be transferred to Euronext as part of the planned IPO.

We expect to divest NYSE Technologies' two remaining business lines, Trading Solutions and Transaction Services, during 2014. The divestiture could include the sale of the business lines as a whole or in parts. Trading Solutions and Transaction Services primarily consist of the NYFIX, Wombat and Metabit technologies. NYFIX is a leading provider of FIX-based electronic trading technologies and includes the FIX Marketplace and Appia Business Suite. Wombat is a leading market data distribution platform, developing technology and supporting services for direct access to real-time global market data. Metabit is a Tokyo-based technology service offering proprietary market access products across Asia.

History

IntercontinentalExchange, Inc. was established in May 2000. Our mission was to transform the OTC energy markets by providing a transparent, accessible, around-the-clock electronic marketplace to a previously fragmented and opaque market structure. We offered the energy community improved price transparency, efficiency, liquidity and lower transaction costs than were available through traditional methods of trade execution, such as voice brokered or open outcry markets.

In June 2001, we expanded into the futures markets by acquiring ICE Futures Europe, formerly the International Petroleum Exchange of London. ICE Futures Europe is the leading regulated energy futures exchange outside of the United States, and for the year ended December 31, 2013, ICE Futures Europe hosted trading for 55% of the world’s crude and refined oil futures contract volume. ICE Data was formed in 2002 to meet the demand for increased market data in the OTC energy markets and it provides daily futures and OTC commodity market data globally.

In November 2005, we completed our IPO on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “ICE” and have since become a member of the Russell 1000 and the S&P 500 indexes.

In January 2007, we acquired ICE Futures U.S., formerly the New York Board of Trade. Following the introduction of electronic futures trading in 2007, ICE Futures U.S. transitioned from a fully floor-based futures market to an electronic futures market. Options markets were available for trading on the floor of the exchange until open outcry was discontinued in October 2012 as a result of customer migration to screen trading. In August 2007, we acquired ICE Futures Canada, formerly the Winnipeg Commodity Exchange, which is the world’s largest canola futures market.

In August 2008, we completed our acquisition of Creditex, a leading interdealer broker for the execution and processing of credit derivatives. We launched ICE Clear Europe in November 2008 and launched ICE Clear Credit in March 2009 following the acquisition of TCC. TCC’s CDS risk model was utilized by ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear Europe to develop clearing for CDS instruments.

In July 2010, we acquired Climate Exchange plc, or CLE, an operator of environmental markets in the United States and Europe. CLE was the parent company of European Climate Exchange.

In July 2011, we acquired a 12% stake in Cetip, S.A., or Cetip, a publicly traded company that is the country’s leading operator of registration and custodial services for securities, fixed-income bonds and OTC derivatives. We also successfully launched BRIX, an electronic marketplace for Brazilian power contracts, based on the ICE trading platform.

In March 2013, we acquired 79% of the derivatives and spot business of the energy exchange formerly known as APX-ENDEX. We renamed the acquired business ICE Endex and it is based on the derivatives and spot gas business of the former APX-ENDEX.  The trade execution and clearing of ICE Endex derivatives products transitioned to our trading platform and to ICE Clear Europe. Gasunie, a European natural gas infrastructure company and a former stockholder of APX-ENDEX, retained the remaining 21% stake.

On November 13, 2013 we acquired NYSE Euronext in a stock and cash transaction valued at $11.1 billion. This transaction added additional asset classes to our portfolio including interest rates, U.S. equity options and U.S. cash equities, and the right to administer LIBOR. We now operate global marketplaces for trading and clearing a broad array of securities and contracts across major asset classes, including interest rates, equities and equity derivatives, credit derivatives, bonds, foreign exchange, energy, metals and agricultural commodities.

In February 2014, we acquired SMX and SMXCC in an all-cash transaction. The acquisition adds an Asian footprint to our current network of markets and clearing houses in the United States, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and Canada.












Our Growth Strategy

The record consolidated revenues and trading volume we achieved in 2013 reflect our focus on the implementation and execution of our long-term growth strategy. We have expanded our core exchange and clearing business both organically and through acquisitions, developed innovative new products for global markets, and provided trading-related services to a larger and more diverse participant base. In addition, we have completed a number of strategic alliances to leverage our core strengths and grow our business. We seek to advance our leadership position in our markets by focusing our efforts on the following key strategies for growth:

•attract new market participants and maintain leadership in our listings business;

•offer additional products and asset classes and services across our markets;

•expand on our extensive clearing and risk management capabilities;

•continue to enhance our technology infrastructure and increase distribution; and

•pursue select acquisitions and strategic opportunities.

Attract New Market Participants and Maintain Leadership in our Listings Business

Our derivatives customer base has grown and diversified due to the continued emergence of new participants in the derivatives and financial markets; the increased use of hedging programs by commercial enterprises; our expansion into new markets; the increased access to our markets as a result of electronic trading; regulatory reform; the expansion of our product set; and the increased allocation to commodities by institutional investors. Our market participants include financial institutions, asset managers, pension funds, commodity producers and refiners, utilities and governments, as well as industrial and manufacturing businesses that are increasingly engaging in hedging, trading and risk management strategies. We believe that many participants are attracted to our markets due in part to our markets' transparency, the need to hedge price volatility and reduced barriers to market access. We intend to continue to expand our customer base by leveraging our existing relationships and our global sales and marketing team to promote participation in our markets, and by expanding our range of products and services.

In our NYSE listings business, we intend to continue to focus on enhancing our product offerings and services to retain and attract companies of all sizes and industries to our listing venues. In 2013, demand for our listing services continued to be strong in terms of transfers, new listings and secondary offerings. Eight companies transferred to the NYSE from other exchanges, and three companies transferred to NYSE MKT from other exchanges. A total of 284 issuers listed their securities on NYSE markets in 2013, raising total proceeds of $59.2 billion, with over 4,400 total companies listing on the NYSE, NYSE Euronext, and NYSE MKT.

Offer Additional Products and Asset Classes and Services Across Our Markets

We have grown, and intend to expand our extensive clearing services and our ability to develop new and innovative products and solutions, including expanding the market data services we offer customers. Through our acquisition of NYSE Euronext, we can now offer our customers the ability to trade and manage risk in interest rates, the largest futures asset class, as well as provide an enhanced suite of products in agriculture and equity indices and exposure to U.S. equity options and cash trading. We have also enhanced our product offerings by entering into strategic relationships and licensing arrangements, including assuming NYSE Euronext’s license for futures on the DTCC GCF Repo Index

®

and the administration of the LIBOR benchmark through our ICE Benchmark Administration operations, which commenced administration of the LIBOR benchmark in February 2014. We also continue to pursue opportunities in markets we do not currently serve. We intend to continue to expand the range of products we offer, both by product type and contract design by continuing to work with our customers and potential partners to develop new products. We may also seek to license our platform to other exchanges for the operation of their markets on our platform, as we have done in the past with NGX, Climate Exchange, our Brix Energia e Futuros S.A., or BRIX, partnership or Cetip. In addition, with the combination of ICE and NYSE Euronext markets, we have strengthened and enhanced our market data offering for customers.

Expand on Our Extensive Clearing and Risk Management Capabilities

By establishing and maintaining our own clearing operations, we are able to respond to market demand for central clearing and related risk management services. With the 2007 acquisition of ICE Clear U.S, the 2008 launch of ICE Clear Europe, the 2009 launch of ICE Clear Credit and the 2011 migration of ICE Clear Europe from outsourced clearing technology to internally developed clearing technology and related software, we now manage our product development cycle and risk management systems and are better able to introduce products that our customers require in a timely manner, subject to regulatory approvals. As new












markets evolve, we intend to leverage our domain knowledge in clearing to meet additional demand for clearing globally. For example, we acquired SMX and SMXCC to better serve our market participants in all countries in which they operate.

Continue to Enhance Our Technology Infrastructure and Increase Distribution

We develop and maintain our own network infrastructure, electronic trading platform and clearing systems to ensure the delivery of leading-edge technology that meets our customers’ demands for price transparency, reliability, risk management and transaction efficiency. We intend to continue to increase ease of access and connectivity with our existing and prospective market participants. As we begin to integrate the NYSE Euronext businesses, we intend to evaluate migrating markets onto the ICE trading and clearing platforms or enhancing the existing NYSE Euronext UTP.

Pursue Select Acquisitions and Strategic Opportunities

As an early consolidator in global derivatives markets, we intend to continue to explore and pursue acquisitions and other strategic opportunities to strengthen our competitive position globally, broaden our product offerings and services for our customers, and support the growth of our company while maximizing shareholder value. We may enter into business combinations, make acquisitions or enter into strategic partnerships, joint ventures or alliances, any of which may be material. In addition to growing our business, we may enter into these transactions for a variety of reasons, including leveraging our existing strengths to enter new markets, expanding our products and services, addressing underserved markets, advancing our technology, anticipating or responding to regulatory change, or taking advantage of new developments and potential changes in our industry.

Our Products and Services

As a leading operator of global futures exchanges, equity and equity options exchanges, OTC marketplaces and clearing houses, we seek to provide our participants with centralized access to our markets for price transparency, trade execution, clearing and other services that support trading, listings and risk management activities. The primary services we provide are trade execution, listings services, price discovery and transparency, trade processing, clearing and market data services.

Trading in our regulated futures markets is available to our members and market participants. Once trades are executed on our derivatives platforms, they are matched and forwarded to a trade registration system that routes them to the applicable clearing house for clearing and settlement. In our clearing houses, derivatives trades are maintained by our risk management systems until the positions are closed out by our customers. Most of our markets are regulated and are responsible for carrying out self-regulatory functions and have governance, compliance, surveillance and market supervision functions.

Regulated Energy Futures Products

We operate regulated markets for energy futures contracts and options on those contracts through our subsidiaries ICE Futures Europe and ICE Futures U.S. Our core products include contracts based on crude and refined oil, natural gas, power, emissions, coal, freight, iron ore and natural gas liquids. Our largest energy contract is the ICE Brent crude futures contract and it is based on forward physical delivery of a blend of light, sweet crude oil that originates from oil fields in the North Sea that comprise the Brent, Forties, Oseberg, Ekofisk, or BFOE, complex. The ICE Brent complex, which includes ICE Brent crude futures, is the leading global oil benchmark used to price a range of traded oil products, including approximately two-thirds of the world’s physical oil, according to Platts. The ICE Gasoil futures contract is a European heating oil contract that offers physical delivery and serves as a middle distillate pricing benchmark for refined oil products, particularly in Europe and Asia. We also operate the world’s second largest market for trading in West Texas Intermediate, or WTI, crude oil futures, as measured by the volume of contracts traded in 2013 according to the Futures Industry Association. The WTI Crude futures contract is the leading benchmark for pricing light, sweet crude oil delivered and consumed within the United States.

On October 15, 2012, we transitioned approximately 800 cleared OTC swaps contracts to our futures markets. Our cleared North American natural gas and power swaps were transitioned to ICE Futures U.S. For 2013, our transitioned energy futures contracts comprised 81% of ICE Futures U.S. average daily volume, with the remainder being agricultural and financial futures contract volume. Also, in October 2012 our cleared oil swaps were transitioned to ICE Futures Europe. For 2013, these futures and options comprised 6% of ICE Futures Europe’s average daily volume, with the exchange’s traditional energy futures contract volume comprising the remainder. The balance of the OTC swaps products that did not transition to futures remain bilaterally traded in our OTC markets, as discussed below under “-OTC Energy Products.”

Regulated Agricultural Futures Products

Both NYSE Liffe and ICE Futures U.S. are regulated, leading commodity futures exchanges for the trading of agricultural commodities. These contracts are designed to provide effective pricing and hedging tools to industry users worldwide, as well as












strategic trading opportunities for investors. The prices for our agricultural contracts serve as global benchmarks for the physical commodity markets, including Sugar No. 11 (world raw sugar), white sugar, Coffee “C” (Arabica coffee), robusta coffee, Cotton No. 2 (cotton), cocoa and frozen concentrated orange juice. Agricultural products accounted for 12%, 31% and 50% of ICE Futures U.S.’s trading volume in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. This decrease in trading volume percentage in the agricultural products that began in 2012 is primarily due to the transition of our energy futures contracts in October 2012.

ICE Futures Canada is the only regulated commodity futures exchange in Canada and it facilitates the trading of futures and options on futures contracts for canola, milling wheat, durum wheat and barley. ICE Futures Canada contracts are designed to provide effective pricing, trading and hedging tools to market participants worldwide. ICE Futures Canada’s canola futures contract is the worldwide price benchmark for canola.

Regulated Financial Futures Products

NYSE Liffe provides a derivatives trading platform and a range of financial futures products, including interest-rate, equity, index, commodity and currency derivative products. NYSE Liffe's core products are short-term interest rate, or STIR, contracts, with its principal STIR contracts based on implied forward rates denominated in euro and sterling. NYSE Liffe U.S. offers a variety of products, including futures on the DTCC GCF Repo Index launched in 2012.

ICE Futures U.S. also offers financial products in currency, equity index and credit index markets, including futures and options contracts on Russell indexes, including the Russell 2000, Russell 1000 and related style indexes. We entered into a licensing arrangement with Russell and retain certain exclusive rights for the remainder of the licensing agreement, which extends through June 2017, subject to achieving specified trading volumes. Trading volumes in the Russell equity index products and other financial products represented 7%, 18% and 41%, respectively, of ICE Futures U.S. volume in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decrease in trading volume percentage for the Russell equity index products that began in 2012 is primarily due to the launch of the new energy futures contracts at ICE Futures U.S. in October 2012.

ICE Futures U.S. lists futures and options contracts for approximately 56 currency pair contracts including euro-based, U.S. dollar-based, yen-based, sterling-based and other cross-rates, as well as the benchmark USDX futures contract.

Cash Products and Listings

Our cash trading products and listings are provided across our subsidiaries: the NYSE, NYSE MKT, NYSE Arca, Euronext, NYSE Alternext, NYSE Arca Europe, SmartPool and Interbolsa. Through these exchanges, we offer our customers access to the capital markets in multiple jurisdictions and offer various listing options and products at these exchanges.

Credit Derivatives Products

Credit default swaps, or CDS, are a widely used type of credit derivative that involve the transfer between counterparties of credit risk related to fixed income instruments such as corporate debt securities. CDS are principally used to hedge against the default of a particular reference entity on a specified credit obligation or debt instrument. The buyer of the CDS instrument, who may own the underlying credit or otherwise has a credit risk exposure to the particular reference entity or security, will make a payment or series of payments to the seller of the CDS contract in return for protection against default, a credit rating downgrade or other negative credit event with respect to the underlying reference entity or security.

We offer electronic and voice brokered trade execution for CDS through Creditex Brokerage, which is authorized and regulated by the FCA, and Creditex, our U.S. based interdealer broker, which is regulated by the CFTC and SEC. We offer clearing services for the CDS markets through ICE Clear Europe and ICE Clear Credit. Both CDS clearing houses are open-access and therefore accept qualifying trades for clearing that are executed on other venues. In 2013, we launched ICE Swap Trade, which provides execution for the OTC markets.

We also operate an electronic platform known as ICE Link, which is an automated trade workflow and connectivity platform for affirming credit derivatives transactions. ICE Link also provides connectivity between market participants, facilitating straight-through processing to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation’s Trade Information Warehouse for non-cleared CDS transactions or to a clearing house for CDS transactions that are clearing eligible. ICE Link enables market participants to capture and affirm trade details and to electronically deliver the information to downstream systems for novation, confirmation and clearing.












OTC Energy Products

Our OTC energy markets comprise the trading of bilateral energy contracts. We operate our bilateral energy markets through ICE Swap Trade and ICE U.S. OTC Commodity Markets. We offer electronic trading of contracts based on physically settled natural gas, power and refined oil products.

As of December 31, 2013, we list over 300 OTC energy contracts on our electronic trading platform that are available for bilateral trading. A substantial portion of our OTC volume relates to approximately 50 contracts in North American natural gas and power, and global oil. For these contracts, the highest degree of market liquidity resides in the prompt, or front month, contracts.

ICE Data Market Data Services

ICE Data provides real-time futures data to data distributors, also known as quote vendors. These companies, such as Bloomberg or Reuters, then package this data into real-time, tick, intra-day, delayed, end-of-day and historical data packages to sell to end users. The real-time packages are accessed on a subscription basis, and the appropriate exchange fee is paid for each user's access. End users include financial information providers, futures commission merchants, pension funds, financial services companies, funds, insurance companies, commodity pools and individual investors.

ICE Data market data services include publication of daily indexes, historical price and other transaction data, view-only and mobile access to our trading platform, end of day settlements and price data. ICE Data also offers a service that provides independent validation of participants’ own valuations for OTC products.

ICE Data publishes ICE daily indexes for our spot natural gas and power markets for over 110 of the most active gas hubs and over 20 of the most active power hubs in North America. In addition, the ICE Data end of day report is a comprehensive electronic summary of trading activity in our energy markets and is sold on a subscription basis. We also offer view-only access to market participants who are not active traders but who desire access to real-time energy prices.

ICE Data’s market price validation, or MPV, service provides independent, consensus forward curve and option values for long-dated global energy contracts on a monthly basis. MPV service participants use these consensus values to validate internal forward curves, mark-to-market their month-end portfolios and establish profit and loss valuations in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board’s recommendations concerning the treatment and valuation of energy derivative contracts.

NYSE Euronext Market Data Services



NYSE Euronext's primary market data service is the distribution of real-time market data. This data includes price, transaction and order book data on all of the instruments traded on NYSE Euronext's cash and derivatives markets. The data is marketed in different information products, and can be packaged according to the type of instrument (shares, derivatives or indexes), the depth of the information (depth of the order book, number of lines of bid and ask prices), and the type of customer (professional or private). The data is disseminated primarily via data vendors, but also directly to financial institutions and other service providers in the financial sector. In the United States, NYSE provides two types of market data products and services: core data products, or those governed by National Market Systems, or NMS, plans, and non-core, or proprietary, data products.



Core Data Products



The SEC requires securities markets to join together in consolidating their bids, offers and last sale prices for each security, and to provide this information to the public on an integrated basis. We work with other markets to make our U.S. market data available, on a consolidated basis, on what is often referred to as the "consolidated tape." The data resulting from the consolidated tape is also referred to as "core data." This intermarket cooperative effort provides the investing public with the reported transaction prices and the best bid and offer for each security, regardless of the market from which a quote is reported or on which market a trade takes place. Last sale prices and quotes in NYSE-listed, NYSE MKT-listed and NYSE Arca-listed securities are disseminated through Tape A and Tape B, which constitute the majority of our NYSE market data revenues. We also receive a share of the revenues from Tape C, which represents data related to trading of certain securities (including ETPs) that are listed on Nasdaq.



Non-Core Data Products



We make certain market data available independently of other markets, which is known as non-core, or proprietary, data. We package this type of market data as trading products (such as NYSE OpenBook, through which we make available all limit orders) and analytic products (such as Market Data Analytics Lab, NYSE Broker Volume and a variety of other databases that are made












available other than in real-time and that are generally used by analytic traders, researchers and academics). These products are proprietary to us, and we do not share the revenues that they generate with other markets.



NYSE Real-Time Reference Prices is a data product that enables Internet and media organizations to buy real-time, last sale prices from the NYSE and provide it broadly and free of charge to the public. NYSE Arca last sale prices are made available through this product. NYSE Arca also makes certain market data available independent of other markets. Through ArcaVision, NYSE Arca provides listed companies, traders and investors with a tailored and customizable means to view detailed market data on particular stocks and market trends. Another data product, ArcaBook, displays the limit order book of securities traded on NYSE Arca in real time. We continue to expand our market data business by accessing new customers for our non-core data products.



The pricing for NYSE U.S. market data products is subject to review by the SEC on the basis of whether prices are fair, reasonable and not unfairly discriminatory. Unlike in the United States, European market data is not consolidated. In Europe, we distribute and sell both real-time and proprietary market information to data vendors such as Bloomberg and Reuters, as well as financial institutions and individual investors. Our NYSE SuperFeed® service provides customers with a low latency, consolidated market data feed for over 100 different exchange and OTC products globally. Market data can be packaged according to customers' needs, including real-time, historical and analytical data services as well as reference and corporate action data services.

Through our Index Weightings service, we also provide traders, analysts, investors and others who rely on up-to-date index information with daily information on the exact composition and weighting of our indexes and precise details of changes in index levels and constituent share prices. Through our Corporate Actions and Masterfiles services, we offer comprehensive corporate actions information for all Euronext listed instruments and reference data for structured products and exchange traded products listed on our European markets. We publish a number of daily official price lists, such as the Cote Officielle in Paris, the Daily Bulletin in Lisbon and the Amsterdam Daily Official List.

Clearing Services

We operate the following six clearing houses:

•ICE Clear U.S. clears ICE Futures U.S. soft commodity, currency, credit and equity index futures contracts;

•ICE Clear Canada clears ICE Futures Canada agricultural futures contracts;

•ICE Clear Europe clears ICE Futures Europe, NYSE Liffe and ICE Endex futures contracts for interest rates, equity indexes, energy and agriculture, as well as European CDS instruments and energy futures contracts listed at ICE Futures U.S.;

•ICE Clear Credit clears North American, European and Emerging Market CDS instruments;

•TCC offers clearing services for ICE Futures U.S., which may include mini-sized, financially settled versions of current ICE Futures U.S. contracts; and

•SMCC clears all SMX futures contracts. We completed the acquisition of SMX and SMXCC in February 2014.

Our clearing houses clear, settle and guarantee the financial performance of futures contracts and options on futures contracts, and in some cases swap instruments. ICE Clear Europe also clears European CDS instruments, and ICE Clear Credit  clears North American, European and Emerging Market CDS instruments. Through each of our clearing houses, we maintain a system for the performance of financial obligations for the products we clear. These financial obligations are between the clearing members through which buyers and sellers conduct transactions. This system is supported by several mechanisms, including rigorous clearing membership requirements, the calculation and posting of original margin deposits, daily mark-to-market of positions and payment of variation margin, maintenance of guaranty funds in which clearing members maintain deposits with our clearing houses, and broad assessment powers to recoup financial losses should they arise due to a clearing member default. The amount of margin deposits on hand fluctuates over time as a result of, among other things, the extent of open positions held at any point in time by market participants and the volatility of the market as reflected in the applicable margin rates for such contracts.

To ensure performance, our clearing houses maintain extensive technology and quantitative risk management systems, as well as financial and operational requirements for clearing members and minimum margin requirements for our cleared products. Our clearing houses use software based on industry standard margining conventions and on our proprietary models uniquely customized to our products to determine the appropriate margin requirements for each clearing member by simulating the maximum possible gains and losses of complex portfolios based on price movements.












Our clearing houses have an excellent track record of risk management. ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear U.S., ICE Clear Canada, ICE Clear Credit and TCC have never experienced an incident of a clearing member default which has required the use of the guaranty funds of non-defaulting members or the assets of the clearing house. Nevertheless, we have extensive risk management procedures in place to ensure we protect the interests of our clearing members and clearing houses.

Each of our clearing houses has instituted multi-layered risk management system of rules, policies and procedures to protect itself in the event of a clearing member default. In addition, each of our clearing houses engages in the following activities as part of our clearing risk management systems:

•performs near real-time monitoring of the risk to clearing members from trading activities in our markets;

•limits the risk exposure of open positions based upon a clearing member’s capital;

•monitors the financial and operational standing of clearing members and potential risks posed by large traders; and

•has broad authority to recoup financial losses following depletion of guaranty fund resources.

In the event of a payment default by a clearing member, the applicable clearing house would follow the default procedures specified in the rules of that clearing house. In general, the clearing houses would first apply assets of the defaulting clearing member to cover its payment obligation. These assets include original margin, variation margin, positions held at the clearing house and guaranty fund deposits of the clearing member. In addition, the clearing houses could make a demand for payment pursuant to any available guarantee provided to the clearing houses by the parent or affiliate of the defaulting clearing member. Thereafter, if the defaulted payment obligation remains unsatisfied, the clearing houses would use the guaranty fund contributions of other clearing members and us, as applicable, and funds collected through an assessment against all other non-defaulting clearing members, and in some cases us, to satisfy the deficit. As part of the powers and procedures designed to backstop financial obligations in the event of a default, each of our clearing houses may levy assessments on all of their clearing members if there are insufficient funds available to cover a deficit following the depletion of all assets in the guaranty fund prior to such assessment.

We offer clearing services for the CDS markets through ICE Clear Europe in a risk management framework that is separate from our futures and options or non-CDS clearing operations. We also offer clearing services for CDS markets through ICE Clear Credit. Both CDS clearing houses are open-access pursuant to regulatory requirements and therefore accept qualifying trades for clearing that are executed on other venues. We have established separate CDS risk pools for ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear Europe, including separate guaranty funds and margin accounts, meaning that the CDS positions are not combined with positions in our traditional futures and options clearing houses. The CDS clearing houses have risk management systems that are designed specifically for CDS instruments and have independent governance structures. As of December 31, 2013, our CDS clearing houses clear 288 single name instruments and 110 CDS indexes.

We have also committed $303 million in borrowing capacity under our credit facilities to assist our clearing houses with liquidity that may be needed to both operate and manage a default during a time of financial stress. See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear U.S. currently self-manage the cash that their respective clearing members leave on deposit to satisfy original margin and guaranty fund requirements. ICE Clear Europe currently uses JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. and Citibank N.A. for investment activity of their clearing member cash deposits.












On July 18, 2012, the Financial Stability Oversight Council designated ICE Clear Credit as a systemically important financial market utility under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act.

In January 2013, we implemented significant clearing technology enhancements across all of our clearing houses and plan to implement this technology at SMXCC in the future. The new clearing technology provides flexibility in managing our volume growth and product development. Our clearing strategy is designed to complement our diverse markets while meeting the risk management, capital and regulatory requirements of a dynamic global marketplace.

Our Customer Base

Our customer base includes professional traders, financial institutions, institutional and individual investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers and governments. Customers may be members of one or more of our exchanges and access to our markets generally depends upon the customer's status as a member of one of our exchanges or whether they have executed an agreement with us for access through an existing member firm.

Derivatives Markets

Customers in our derivatives markets include market participants seeking to trade, clear and manage risk by accessing our derivatives markets. Our market participants include those served by our energy, financial, and agricultural markets, including, financial institutions, money managers, trading firms, commodity producers and consumers, and corporations. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represent charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers.

The five most active clearing members of our derivatives business, which handle cleared trades for their own accounts and on behalf of market participants, accounted for 58%, 54% and 57% of our derivatives revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Revenues from three clearing members accounted for 17%, 14% and 12% of our derivatives revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013, and revenues from two clearing members accounted for 19% and 12% of our derivatives revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 18% and 17% of our derivatives revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Market participants in our futures exchanges may become members or trade through a member firm. For example, to become a member of ICE Futures Europe, an applicant must undergo a thorough review and application process and agree to be bound by ICE Futures Europe rules.

Cash Trading and Listings

In cash trading and listings, our customers include various market participants in the equities markets, including financial institutions, institutional investors, hedge funds, quantitative funds and algorithmic traders, to companies looking to raise capital and list their securities on one of our equity exchanges. Our customers in our equity markets include financial institutions, dealers, brokers, money managers, pension funds, trading firms, and trading members, which are entities registered as broker-dealers with the SEC that have obtained trading permits or licenses in accordance with the rules of the NYSE, NYSE Arca or NYSE MKT. Trading members are subject to the rules of the relevant exchange.

The majority of Euronext's European cash trading members are brokers and dealers based in Euronext's marketplaces, but also include members in other parts of Europe, most notably the United Kingdom and Germany.

Our global listings businesses in the United States and Europe offer capital raising and trading of listed companies to over 8,041 companies globally, including 5,917 in the United States which represent $21.5 trillion in market capitalization as of December 31, 2013. NYSE Euronext's listed companies represent a diverse range of sectors, including technology, financial services, consumer brands, industrial, transportation, media, energy and mining. These companies meet minimum initial and ongoing listings requirements, including governance and financial standards, as established by the exchange.

No single participant accounted for more than 10% of our cash trading and listing revenues for the period from November 13, 2013 (the date of the NYSE Euronext acquisition) through December 31, 2013.

Market Data Participant Base

Market data participants include financial institutions, corporations, commodity trading companies, proprietary trading firms, utilities, hedge funds and private investors. A large proportion of our market data revenues are derived from companies executing trades on our platforms. The primary customers for our futures market data are redistributors such as Bloomberg, CQG, Interactive Data Corporation and Reuters, who redistribute our real-time pricing data. No participant accounted for more than 10% of our market data revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 or 2011.












Product Development

We leverage our customer relationships, global distribution, technology infrastructure and software development capabilities to diversify our products and services. New product development is an ongoing process, and we are continually developing, evaluating and testing new products for introduction into our markets to better serve our participant base. The majority of our product development relates to evaluating new contracts, equity derivatives or markets. New contracts in our futures markets must be reviewed and approved by relevant regulators. Outside of standard licensing costs, we typically do not incur separate, identifiable material costs in connection with the development of new products - such costs are embedded in our normal costs of operation.

While we have historically developed our products and services internally, we also periodically evaluate and enter into strategic partnerships and licensing arrangements to identify opportunities to develop meaningful new products and services.

Technology

Technology is a key component of our business strategy, and we regard effective execution of our technology initiatives as crucial to our success. Where possible, we design and build our software systems and believe that having control over our technology allows us to be more responsive to the needs of our customers, better support the dynamic nature of our business and deliver the highest quality markets and data. Our proprietary systems are built using state-of-the-art software technologies, including component-based architectures and a combination of leading-edge open source and proprietary technology products.

A large number of our employees work in areas of technology, including in the areas of product management, project management, system architecture, software development, network engineering, security, performance, systems analysis, quality assurance, database administration and helpdesk.

ICE Derivatives Trading Platforms and Related Technology

The ICE derivatives trading platform supports trading in our futures and options markets and in our bilateral OTC markets. For futures and options products, the platform supports multiple order types, matching algorithms, price reasonability checks, inter-commodity spread pricing and real-time risk management. In addition, we have developed a multi-generation implied matching engine that automatically discovers best bid and offer prices throughout the forward curve. For OTC products, we also support bilateral trading with real-time credit risk management between counterparties by commodity and company. We also offer voice brokers a facility for submitting block trades for products that are eligible for clearing. For equity options, we offer a hybrid model of electronic and open outcry trading through NYSE Amex Options and NYSE Arca Options.

Speed, reliability, scalability and capacity are critical performance criteria for electronic trading platforms.  Connectivity to our trading platform for our markets is available through our web-based front-end, WebICE, as well as multiple independent software vendors, or ISVs, and application programming interfaces, or APIs. WebICE serves as a secure, customizable, feature-rich front-end to our trading platform. Participants can access our platform globally via the Internet or private networks by logging in via our website homepage. Generally, we have over 14,000 concurrent connections to our electronic platform globally each trading day via WebICE and through multiple ISVs, co-location data centers, dedicated lines and global telecommunication hubs. ICE mobile allows WebICE customers to receive real-time data for our markets and the ability to view and manage their orders, as well as the option to enter new orders and trade from certain mobile devices. For our futures markets we offer participants the use of APIs, which allow developers to create customized applications and services around our electronic platform to suit their specific needs. Participants using APIs are able to link their own internal computer systems to our platform and enable algorithmic trading, risk management, data services, and straight-through processing.

NYSE Euronext Technology

NYSE Euronext's electronic trading platform features an open system architecture which allows users to access our system via one of the many front-end trading applications developed by ISVs. NYSE Euronext's trading platform has been designed to handle significant order flow and transaction volumes. Orders can be matched either on a price/time or pro rata basis, configurable by contract, with transacted prices and volumes and the aggregate size of all bids and offers at each price level updated on a real-time basis. Users are continually notified of all active orders in the central order book, making market depth easy to monitor.

NYSE Euronext operates a commercial technology business, NYSE Technologies, and also owns NYFIX, a provider of solutions that aims to optimize trading efficiency. NYSE Technologies provides comprehensive transaction, data and infrastructure services and managed solutions for buy-side, sell-side and exchange communities. NYSE Technologies operates SFTI, a physical network infrastructure that connects our markets and other major market centers with numerous market participants in the United States and Europe. SFTI connects all NMS market centers in the United States.












Clearing Technology

Trade Management and Clearing Services Technology

A broad range of trade management and clearing services are offered through our clearing houses. ICE clearing systems are used at ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear U.S., ICE Clear Canada and ICE Clear Credit. The ICE Clearing Systems encompass a number of integrated systems, most importantly the Post-Trade Management System, or PTMS/ACT, and the Extensible Clearing System, or ECS. PTMS/ACT provides real-time trade processing services enabling clearing members to offer real-time risk management services. ECS supports open and delivery position management, real-time trade and post-trade accounting, risk management (daily and intra-day cash, mark-to-market/option premium, and original margin using algorithms based on the CME SPAN®algorithm), collateral management, daily settlement and banking utilizing SWIFT as the payment system. ECS is a state-of-the art system offering open, Internet-based connectivity and integration options for clearing member access to user and account management, position reporting and collateral management. ECS also has an extensive reporting system which delivers on-line access to daily and historical reports in multiple formats, as well as an extensive currency delivery system to manage the delivery and payment of currency settlements.

We offer real-time trade confirmations of trades booked for clearing over standard FIXML API and support a multitude of post trade management functions including trade corrections, trade split, trade adjustment, position transfers, average pricing and give-up processing. As with the trading platform, we take a proactive approach to enhancing the reliability, capacity and performance of our clearing systems.

Clearing Risk Technology

A core component of our clearing houses is risk management of clearing firm members. We enforce rigorous risk mitigation policies, covering market, liquidity, credit and operational risk. The risk teams at each of our clearing houses set margin rates and monitor on-hand collateral of clearing members. Our risk system provides analytical tools to determine margin, to determine credit risk, and monitor risk of the clearing members. The risk system also monitors trading activities of the clearing members.

The CDS risk system self-adjusts to market conditions, accounts for the highly asymmetric risk profiles of CDS instruments, and captures the specificities of CDS trading behavior. Because the ICE CDS risk management model is self-adjusting, new original margin requirements are computed daily, as CDS spreads and volatility change. In addition to normal clearing functions, CDS clearing technology facilitates a daily auction-style price discovery process in which all clearinghouse members provide end-of-day quotes for all index and single name CDS instruments in which they have open interest. From these quotes the CDS clearing systems establish final prices for mark-to-market and variation margin calculations, as well as for computing original margin requirements and guaranty fund contributions.

ICE Trade Vault



ICE Trade Vault, U.S., is a CFTC provisionally registered Swap Data Repository for the commodities and credit asset classes. ICE Trade Vault Europe Limited is an ESMA registered Trade Repository for the credit, interest rate and commodity asset classes. ICE Trade Vault provides safe and simple trade reporting to multiple global jurisdictions, allowing customers to comply with all applicable laws through a single, easy-to-use interface. Trades, positions and valuations are securely stored and reported in accordance with our standards and the rules set out by appropriate authorities. Post-trade activity through the full lifecycle of each trade is captured and readily available to customers and regulators alike, including real-time, top-day updates for bilateral trades. A single trade submission satisfies all regulatory needs, including real-time, public dissemination of anonymized market data to comply with U.S. Dodd-Frank and European EMIR rules.

Compliance and Regulatory Reporting Technology

We have invested or contracted for extensive internal compliance and external regulatory reporting systems for post trade analysis. For compliance, we developed ICEcap, which is used by our futures exchanges and OTC energy markets. The foundation for ICEcap is our enterprise data warehouse which combines data from multiple exchanges and clearing platforms. A flexible, customizable reporting front-end is then used to deliver the data to users, such as market supervision or regulators. ICEcap also services enterprise-wide business intelligence needs for our finance, operations and sales departments. For real time trade analysis, we have a license and maintenance agreement with SMARTS Market Surveillance PTY Limited to use the SMARTS system, which gives us a real time graphical view of all of the trading in our futures and OTC markets coupled with real time alerts.












Data Centers, Global Network and Distribution

The ICE platform is located in a state-of-the-art hosting center in Illinois and we also maintain a disaster recovery site for our technology systems in Georgia. We offer access to our electronic markets through a broad range of interfaces including dedicated lines, server co-location data centers, telecommunications hubs in the United States, Europe and Asia, and directly via the Internet. The ICE global network consists of high speed dedicated data lines connecting data hubs in New York, Atlanta, Chicago, London and Singapore with the exchanges’ and clearing houses’ primary and disaster recovery data centers. This network offers customers an inexpensive, high speed, high-bandwidth solution for routing data between these hub locations and to the primary and secondary data centers.

NYSE Euronext developed two data centers in the United Kingdom and New Jersey in 2011. All of the matching engines for NYSE Euronext markets in Europe are consolidated in the U.K. facility, and our U.S. securities exchanges are located in the U.S. facility.

We seek to ensure the integrity of our data network through a variety of methods, including access restrictions and firewalls. We monitor traffic and components of our data network, and use an application to detect network intrusions and monitor external traffic. Customer circuits and routers are monitored around the clock and anomalies in customer circuits are reported to its staff and carrier support personnel for resolution.

In addition to our global network, the accessibility of the ICE platform through the Internet differentiates our markets and serves to attract liquidity in our markets. As of the fourth quarter of 2013, there was an average of 14,000 simultaneous active connections daily during peak trading hours. One active connection can represent many individual traders. In addition, we have 44 order routing and 34 trade capture conformed ISVs interfacing to our trading platform. Many ISVs present a single connection while facilitating numerous individual participants entering orders and trading on our exchange. As a result, we have the potential to attract thousands of additional participants who may trade in our markets through ISVs or through our own front-end.

We offer server co-location space at our data centers to all of our customers. This service allows customers to deploy their trading servers and applications which virtually eliminate data transmission latency between the customer and the exchange.

Security Technology

Cyber security is critical to the operation of our services. We adopt a defense in depth strategy, employing leading-edge security technology and processes including encryption, firewalls, virus prevention, intrusion prevention systems and secured servers. We use a multi-tiered firewall scheme to control access to our network and have incorporated protective features within applications to ensure the integrity of participant data and connectivity. Where our services are accessible via Internet, we have implemented additional restrictions to limit access to specific approved networks. Technology from advanced threat mitigation providers is deployed and the key security risks, controls, metrics are vetted quarterly by our Information Security Oversight Committee.

Our Competitive Strengths and Competition

Competitive Strengths

We are a leading operator of global equities, options and futures exchanges, derivative clearing houses and post-trade services. We operate leading markets in the asset classes in which we compete, including cash equities, equity options, futures and many OTC markets. We believe our key strengths include our:

•liquid, global equity and derivatives markets and benchmark futures contracts;

•geographic and product diversity across 17 regulated exchanges;

•secure central counterparty clearing houses and risk management for our global markets;

•leading global listings and trading venues; and

•widely-distributed, leading edge technology for trading, clearing, data and trade processing.

Many of our futures contracts serve as global benchmarks for managing risk relating to exposure to price movements in the underlying products, including financial, energy and agricultural commodities. For example, we operate the leading market for trading in Brent crude oil futures, as measured by the volume of contracts traded in 2013 according to the Futures Industry Association. The ICE Brent Crude futures contract is the leading benchmark for pricing light, sweet crude oil produced and consumed outside of the United States. The ICE Brent Crude futures contract is part of the Brent complex, which forms the price












reference for approximately two-thirds of the world’s physical oil. Based on 2013 contract volume, over half of the world’s crude and refined oil futures contracts were traded through ICE Futures Europe. In addition, NYSE Euronext operates the leading market for short-term interest rate, or STIR, contracts, with our principal STIR contracts based on implied forward rates based on LIBOR, denominated in euro and sterling. Trading volume in Liffe's STIR flagship product, the Euribor futures contract, grew 34% over the past year. We also offer leading agricultural benchmark contracts, including sugar, cocoa, cotton and coffee, that serve as global price references.

Our regulated exchanges and platforms offer qualified market participants access to our markets, covering a range of categories, including interest rates, equities, energy, agricultural, metals, equity index, environmental, currencies, and U.S. equity options. By offering multiple markets and products we provide our participants with flexibility to implement their trading and risk management strategies across a variety of asset classes. We operate across multiple geographies and serve customers in dozens of countries as a result of listing products that are relevant globally, such as interest rates, energy products, equities, credit derivatives, agricultural commodities, the USDX and currencies.

We offer a range of central clearing and related risk management services, to promote the security of our markets. The credit and performance assurance provided by our clearing houses to clearing members substantially reduces counterparty risk and is a critical component of our exchanges’ identities as reliable and secure marketplaces for global transactions. We believe the services offered by our clearing houses are a competitive advantage and attract market participants to our exchanges. Our clearing houses are designed to protect the financial integrity of our markets by maintaining collateral, facilitating payments and collections, enhancing capital efficiency and limiting counterparty credit risk.

We operate the leading global listings and trading venues for equities and offer our customers access to the capital markets in the United States and Europe. Our various listing venues allow companies to list domestic and international equity securities, corporate structured products, convertible bonds, trackers and debt securities. In 2013, NYSE was the global leader in IPOs for the third consecutive year, raising $59 billion in total proceeds, including leading in technology company IPOs. During the same period, NYSE was the leader in follow-on financings, raising $176 billion in proceeds. Through our European exchanges, a total of €85 billion was raised from initial and secondary offerings, including bond offerings.

Our leading edge technology infrastructure provides centralized and direct access to trade execution, processing and clearing for a variety of derivatives and financial products. We operate the majority of our interest rate, energy, agricultural and financial markets on our electronic trading platforms. Our trading platforms have enabled us to attract significant liquidity from traditional market participants, as well as new market entrants seeking the access, efficiency and ease of execution offered by electronic trading. We developed and maintain our own clearing systems across our clearing houses.

Competition

The markets in which we operate are global and highly competitive. We face competition in all aspects of our business from a number of different enterprises, both domestic and international, including traditional exchanges, electronic trading platforms and voice brokers. Prior to the passage of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, or CFMA, futures trading was generally required to take place on, or subject to the rules of, a designated contract market. The costs and difficulty of obtaining contract market designation and corresponding regulatory requirements created significant barriers to entry for competing exchanges. The CFMA and changing market dynamics, including electronic trading, have led to increased competition from a number of different domestic and international sources of varied size, business objectives and resources.

We believe we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including:

•depth and liquidity of markets;

•price transparency;

•reliability and speed of trade execution and processing;

•technological capabilities and innovation;

•breadth of product range;

•rate and quality of new product developments;

•quality of service;

•distribution and ease of connectivity;












•mid- and back-office service offerings, including differentiated and value-added services;

•transaction costs; and

•reputation.

We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors, and that our deep, liquid markets, breadth of product offerings, new product development, and efficient, secure settlement, clearing and support services distinguish us from our competitors. We believe that in order to maintain our competitive position, we must continue to develop new and innovative products and services, enhance our technology infrastructure, maintain liquidity and offer competitive transaction costs.

The financial services segment is highly competitive, with competition increasing as markets have globalized and following the implementation of financial reform regulation. Certain competitors include exchanges that replicate our futures contracts. For example, CME Group, the largest derivatives exchange in the United States with 86% market share of all U.S. futures contracts traded, competes with our exchanges on agricultural and energy commodities, currency and equity index contracts. NYSE Liffe and NYSE Liffe U.S. compete with the OTC markets as well as a number of international derivatives exchanges, including the CME, Eurex, which is the derivatives platform operated by Deutsche Börse, and NLX, which is the derivative platform operated by Nasdaq.

We compete with voice brokers active in certain of the OTC energy and credit derivatives markets, other electronic trading platforms for derivatives, clearing houses and market data vendors. ICE Swap Trade, Creditex and Creditex Brokerage compete with other swap execution facilities and large inter-dealer brokers in the credit derivatives market.

In addition to competition from derivative exchanges that offer commodity products, we also face competition from other exchanges, electronic trading systems, third-party clearing houses, futures commission merchants and technology firms. Further, certain financial services or technology companies have entered the OTC trade execution services market. Additional joint ventures and consortia could form, or have been formed, to provide services that could potentially compete with certain services that we provide.

In the United States, we face significant competition with respect to cash trading, and this competition is expected to remain intense. Our current and prospective competitors include regulated markets, electronic communication networks, dark pools and other alternative trading systems, market makers and other execution venues. The recently announced proposed combination of BATS Global Markets, Inc. and Direct Edge, LLC may increase competitive pressures. We also face growing competition from large brokers and customers that may assume the role of principal and act as counterparty to orders originating from retail customers, or by matching their respective order flows through bilateral trading arrangements, including through internalization of order flow. Some of these competitors are among our largest customers or are owned by our customers. In particular, many of our key customers are prioritizing their internalization and alternative trading system businesses ahead of their exchange-based market making business.

In the United States, our principal competitor for listings is Nasdaq OMX Group, Inc., or Nasdaq OMX. The U.S. capital markets face competition for foreign issuer listings from a number of stock exchanges outside the United States, including London Stock Exchange plc, Deutsche Börse Group and exchanges in Tokyo, Hong Kong, Toronto, Singapore and Australia. As other liquidity venues seek exchange status, we may face more competition for listings.

NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex Options face considerable competition in equity derivatives trading. Their principal U.S. competitors are the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., or CBOE, the International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc., BATS Global Markets, Inc., or BATS, the Boston Options Exchange Group, LLC and the Nasdaq OMX, as well as startups such as Miami International Securities Exchange, LLC, and ELX Futures, L.P., backed by a consortium of banks and other market participants.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a wide range of intellectual property, both owned and licensed, that is utilized in the operation of our electronic platforms, much of which has been internally developed by our technology team. We own the rights to a large number of trademarks, service marks, domain names and trade names in the United States, Europe and in other parts of the world. We have registered the majority of our trademarks in the United States and other countries. We hold the rights to a number of patents and have made a number of patent applications in the United States and other countries. We also own the copyright to a variety of material. Those copyrights, some of which are registered, include printed and online publications, websites, advertisements, educational material, graphic presentations, software code and other literature, both textual and electronic. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on trademarks, patents, copyrights, database rights, trade secrets, restrictions on disclosure and other methods.












This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains additional trade names, trademarks and service marks of our and of other companies. We do not intend the use or display of other parties’ trademarks, trade names or service marks to imply, and this use or display should not be construed to imply, our endorsement or sponsorship of these other parties, their endorsement or sponsorship of it, or any other relationship between it and these other parties.

Sales

As of December 31, 2013, we employed 353 full-time sales personnel, including voice brokers. Our global sales team is comprised primarily of experienced financial services staff and former brokers and traders with extensive experience and established relationships within the listings and trading community. Because our businesses are regulated, we employ sales and marketing staff that is knowledgeable with respect to the regulatory constraints upon marketing in this field.

Our sales and marketing strategy is designed to expand relationships with existing participants through the provision of value-added products and services, technology support and product information, as well as to attract new participants to our traded markets and listings venues. Our sales and marketing efforts also support new product development by working to understand the evolving needs of our customers. We also seek to build brand awareness and educate the public on our business, including how our markets, products and technology support enhanced price discovery, risk management, capital raising, efficiency and transparency in the global financial and commodity markets.

Employees

As of December 31, 2013, we had a total of 4,232 employees, with 435 employees at our headquarters in Atlanta, 1,495 employees in New York, 907 employees in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland and a total of 1,395 employees across our Amsterdam, Brussels, Calgary, Chicago, Houston, Lisbon, Paris, San Francisco, Singapore, Stamford, Washington, D.C. and Winnipeg offices. Of our total employee base, 1% are subject to collective bargaining arrangements, and such relations are considered to be good.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information relating to our executive officers is included under "Executive Officers" in Part III, Item 10, "Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Business Continuity Planning and Disaster Recovery

We maintain comprehensive business continuity and disaster recovery plans and facilities to provide nearly continuous availability of our markets in the event of a business disruption or disaster. We maintain incident and crisis management plans that address responses to disruptive events at any of our locations worldwide. We continuously evaluate business risks and their impact on operations, provide training to employees and perform exercises to validate the effectiveness of our plans, including participation in industry-sponsored disaster recovery and business continuity exercises. Oversight of business continuity and disaster recovery planning is provided by a committee comprised of senior managers representing each business unit, Internal Audit, Enterprise Risk Management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.



Regulation

We are primarily subject to the jurisdiction of regulatory agencies in the United States, Europe, Asia and Canada. In 2009, during the Pittsburgh summit, the G20 nations came to a mutual agreement on global financial market reform. Since that agreement, various domestic and foreign governments have undertaken reviews of the existing legal framework governing financial markets and have either passed new laws and regulations, or are in the process of debating and/or enacting new laws and regulations that apply to our business.

In 2010, the U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. Through extensive rulemaking authority granted under the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC and SEC are charged with creating a comprehensive new regulatory regime governing OTC derivative markets and market participants, including our OTC markets and customers. Dodd-Frank requires, among other things, mandatory exchange trading, clearing and reporting of OTC derivatives and greater regulation of exchanges and clearing houses. The European Union has also adopted new legislation on OTC derivatives, clearing houses and trade repositories commonly known as the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, or EMIR. EMIR requires, among other things, OTC and exchange-traded derivatives trades to be reported to trade repositories, clearing of standardized OTC derivative contracts and more stringent prudential, operational and business requirements for clearing houses. The final form of the legislation was enacted in August 2012 and secondary legislation to enact the legislation became effective on












March 15, 2013. In addition, the European Union is finalizing Markets in Financial Instruments Directives II, or MiFID II, which requires position limits for commodity derivatives and requires open access for European derivatives markets.

In November 2013, we finalized our acquisition of NYSE Euronext. As detailed below, the acquisition adds new regulated businesses to our operations, including a number of European and U.S. equity exchanges, and as explained in further detail below under Equities Regulation, subjects us to oversight by additional regulators.

We believe that many of the new requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and EMIR are consistent with the manner in which we already operated our business. For example, new requirements to centrally clear OTC swaps and trade them on regulated platforms are consistent with our existing business model. The mandate to clear standardized swaps complements our clearing businesses operating in three countries. While certain of these changes may have a positive impact on our business, some changes could adversely affect our business. Please refer to the discussion below and to the “Risk Factors” section for a description of regulatory and legislative risks and uncertainties.



Derivatives Regulation

Trade Execution

Over the past three years, the CFTC has issued new rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, we reorganized our U.S. derivatives business. We transitioned the majority of our OTC energy products into futures listed on ICE Futures U.S. (our natural gas, emissions, and electricity products) and ICE Futures Europe (oil, natural gas, freight and iron ore products). In October 2013, the CFTC granted our subsidiary, ICE Swap Trade, temporary registration as a SEF. As the final part of our Dodd-Frank Act transition, we listed our bilateral energy swaps products and credit derivatives on ICE Swap Trade. We still offer physically settled bilateral energy contracts for forward delivery on our OTC platform. Although we have brought our operations into compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act, there can be no guarantee that our business and trading volumes will not be adversely affected as a result of our compliance with these requirements.

Our U.S. futures contracts are listed on ICE Futures U.S., which is subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act. or CEA. The CEA generally requires that futures trading in the United States be conducted on a commodity exchange registered as a Designated Contract Market, or DCM. As a registered DCM, ICE Futures U.S. is a self-regulatory organization that has instituted rules and procedures to comply with the core principles applicable to it under the Commodity Exchange Act. ICE Futures U.S. also has surveillance and compliance operations and procedures to monitor and enforce compliance with its rules, and ICE Futures U.S. is periodically audited by the CFTC with respect to the fulfillment of its self-regulatory programs in these areas. Our U.S. swaps business is listed on ICE Swap Trade, which is regulated as a SEF by the CFTC. Like registered DCMs, SEFs are self-regulated organizations that must comply with core principles that are similar to the DCM core principles. The cost of regulatory compliance for DCMs and SEFs is substantial. In addition, the increased regulation of derivatives transactions could result in reduced trading activity, which could adversely affect our business.

The regulatory framework applicable to ICE Futures U.S, and ICE Swap Trade is supplemented by the CEA, which has provisions regulating the conduct of participants in the regulated market. Importantly, the CEA contains provisions making it an offense for participants to engage in certain market behavior such as market manipulation and prohibits market abuse. Breaches of those provisions give rise to the risk of sanctions, including financial or criminal penalties. In addition, many market participants, including clearing firms, must independently register with the CFTC and National Futures Association and perform various compliance and reporting functions.

In November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules placing position limits on 28 energy, metals and agricultural contracts.  ICE Futures U.S. has spot month position limits for its energy and agricultural products and for certain agricultural and financial contracts, all month limits. If finalized, the new rules will place federal all month and spot month limits on these 28 contracts, and the limits will be aggregated across exchanges and the OTC swaps markets. Key contracts included in the rule will be the Henry Hub natural gas contract and the ICE WTI crude oil contract. Financially settled contracts (including our Henry Hub natural gas and WTI contracts) will maintain a position limit five times the limit for physically settled futures contracts. If the CFTC's position limits were to be imposed in the form proposed, trading activity and liquidity on our exchanges may decline, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

In January 2014, the Federal Reserve announced that it is reviewing its policy allowing banks to participate in the physical commodity markets. While the review is at an early stage, if the Federal Reserve decides to limit bank participation in the physical commodity markets, it could cause additional banks to sell certain of their commodity operations. In the United Kingdom, ICE Futures Europe is a Recognized Investment Exchange in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, or FSMA.

Further, we engage in sales and marketing activities in relation to our OTC and futures businesses in the United Kingdom and the United States through our subsidiary ICE Markets Limited, or ICE Markets, which is authorized and regulated by the FCA












as an investment adviser and arranger. ICE Markets also supports the ICE Link platform and related services in the United Kingdom. Creditex Brokerage is authorized and regulated by the FCA to operate the Creditex RealTime platform in the United Kingdom and facilitate the conclusion of transactions of credit derivative instruments and bonds. Creditex Brokerage has regulatory approval to deal as riskless principal or agent. The RealTime platform is open to eligible counterparties and professional clients as defined by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Creditex Brokerage’s services are not available to retail consumers. In order to retain their status as FCA registered entities, these entities are required to meet various regulatory requirements in the United Kingdom.

The regulatory framework applicable to ICE Futures Europe is supplemented by a series of legislative provisions regulating the conduct of participants in the regulated market. Importantly, FSMA contains provisions making it an offense for participants to engage in certain market behavior and prohibits market abuse through the misuse of information, the giving of false or misleading impressions or the creation of market distortions. Breaches of those provisions give rise to the risk of sanctions, including financial penalties.

ICE Endex operates its Dutch short term gas markets under an official designation of the Minister of Economic Affairs. The Authority Consumer and Market regulates the Dutch energy industry and wholesale energy trading market. ICE Endex facilitates the trading in energy futures via ICE Endex Derivatives B.V., which is an operator of a regulated market under a license of the Ministry of Finance and supervised by the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets and the Dutch Central Bank.  In the United Kingdom, ICE Endex Gas Spot Ltd. is designated and appointed as the independent market operator of the gas balancing market (On-the-day Commodity market or OCM). ICE Endex facilitates the trading in electricity futures with delivery on the Belgian grid and ICE Endex has been appointed as the market operator for the gas balancing market in Belgium.

SMX is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore pursuant to the Securities and Futures Act of Singapore as an Approved Exchange to operate a futures market and is required to undertake such functions such as market surveillance, member compliance and rule enforcement.

ICE Futures Canada’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by the Manitoba Securities Commission, or MSC, under the Commodity Futures Act (Manitoba), or CFA. The CFA requires that an organization must be recognized and registered before it can carry on the business of a futures exchange, and establishes financial and non-financial criteria for an exchange. In addition, ICE Futures Canada is also recognized by the MSC as a self-regulatory organization and is required to institute and maintain detailed rules and procedures to fulfill its obligations. ICE Futures Canada is responsible for surveillance and compliance operations and procedures to monitor and enforce compliance by market participants with its rules, and is under the audit jurisdiction of the MSC with respect to these self-regulatory functions. ICE Futures Canada’s operations are also subject to oversight by other provincial securities commissions, including the Ontario Securities Commission, the Autorité des marchés financiers in Québec and the Alberta Securities Commission.

LIFFE Administration and Management (the operator of LIFFE, the London market of NYSE Liffe) which administers the markets for financial and commodity derivatives in London and also administers and operates NYSE Euronext London, both of which are currently overseen by the FCA. As with ICE Futures Europe, LIFFE Administration and Management is designated as a Recognized Investment Exchange. Subject to regulatory approval, LIFFE Administration and Management plans to transfer its derivatives execution business to ICE Futures Europe. In addition, NYSE Liffe U.S. is a DCM. Subject to regulatory approval, we plan to transition NYSE Liffe U.S.’s execution business to ICE Futures U.S. and ICE Futures Europe.












The regulatory framework applicable to our regulated exchanges is supplemented by legislation and rules, such as the Commodity Exchange Act in the U.S. or MiFID in Europe, which regulate the conduct of participants in the regulated market. Importantly, these legislative or regulatory frameworks contain provisions making it an offense for participants to engage in certain market behavior such as market manipulation and prohibits market abuse. Breaches of those provisions give rise to the risk of sanctions, including financial and/or criminal penalties. In addition, many market participants, including clearing firms, must independently register with their applicable regulators and industry self regulatory organization (such as the National Futures Association) and perform various compliance and reporting functions.

Clearing

ICE Clear Credit, ICE Clear U.S., and TCC are regulated by the CFTC as DCOs. ICE Clear Europe, which is primarily regulated in the United Kingdom, is also subject to regulation by the CFTC as a DCO. Both ICE Clear Credit and ICE Clear Europe are also regulated by the SEC as clearing agencies because they clear security-based swaps. DCOs are subject to extensive regulation by the CFTC under the Commodity Exchange Act. As part of our acquisition of NYSE Euronext, we now own New York Portfolio Clearing, or NYPC, a DCO. Subject to regulatory approval, we plan to move NYPC’s clearing business to ICE Clear U.S. and ICE Clear Europe.

ICE Clear Europe is primarily regulated by the Bank of England as a Recognized Clearing House, or RCH. As required by EMIR, which came into force on March 15, 2013, ICE Clear Europe presented an application to ESMA to be authorized under EMIR within the required timeframe. EMIR also requires clearing houses to require original margin to cover an exchange traded derivatives (futures) position for two days, which could increase margin requirements for market participants and could make trading of cleared derivative contracts in Europe less attractive for market participants. On September 1, 2013, ESMA made its recommendation to the European Commission over whether the United States and other countries' financial regulatory systems are equivalent to the European financial regulatory system. In its recommendation, ESMA stated that in regards to clearing house regulation, the U.S. regulatory system is not equivalent to the European financial regulatory system. However, ESMA did state that clearing houses could adopt rules, including the increased margin requirements mentioned above, and receive recognition as a foreign clearing house from ESMA. If a foreign clearing does not obtain recognition, European customer access to that clearing house will be more difficult and expensive. ICE Clear Credit, ICE Clear U.S. and ICE Clear Canada have applied for recognition as foreign clearing houses with ESMA.

In 2012, the International Organization of Securities Commissions issued Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures, or PFMI. Clearing houses that adhere to the rules of their local regulator designed to meet the PFMIs can be deemed to be a Qualified Central Counter Party or QCCP. Generally, global banking regulators give favorable capital treatment to banks that clear at QCCPs. For example, the U.S. banking agencies (the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) issued final rules implementing the Basel III accord. To encourage central clearing, the final rules assess a relatively low risk weight of either 2% or 4% to a bank’s exposure to cleared derivatives held in a QCCP. ICE Clear Credit, as a systemically important financial market utility under Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act, is deemed a QCCP by U.S. banking regulators. ICE Clear Europe, ICE Clear U.S., and ICE Clear Canada adhere to the rules of their local regulator designed to meet the international standards set forth in the PFMIs and accordingly retain their status as QCCPs. SMXCC is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore as a Designated Clearing House. We plan to seek QCCP status for SMXCC.

Historically, clearing houses and the CFTC have treated U.S. Treasuries as liquid for collateral purposes. However, as part of the QCCP recognition process, the CFTC passed Regulation 39.33 requiring U.S. Treasuries to be subject to a “prearranged” and “highly reliable” same day funding arrangement in order for U.S. Treasuries to qualify as being liquid for collateral purposes. Subsequent to the adoption of CFTC Regulation 39.33, CFTC staff provided informal guidance that the only way to demonstrate “prearranged” and “highly reliable” is by requiring a “committed” funding arrangement. The cost of obtaining the necessary amount of committed facilities, combined with clearing house changes to the composition of the collateral it accepts in order to meet liquidity requirements, may be substantial.

Trade Reporting

A key aspect of the G20 financial reform efforts is the reporting of derivatives trades to trade repositories. In the United States, all swaps must be reported to swap data repositories, or SDRs. In June 2012, the CFTC provisionally registered ICE Trade Vault as a SDR for the credit and commodity asset classes. In Europe, EMIR requires all derivatives trades (futures or swaps) to be reported to a Trade Repository. In November 2013, ESMA approved ICE Trade Vault Europe as a Trade Repository in advance of EMIR’s trade reporting deadline in February 2014. We will continue to seek approvals to serve as a Trade Repository as other jurisdictions finalize their reporting rules.

Equities Regulation

Trade Execution












U.S. federal securities laws have established a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets and market participants. The first tier consists of the SEC, which has primary responsibility for enforcing federal securities laws and regulations and is subject to Congressional oversight. The second tier consists of the regulatory responsibilities of self-regulatory organizations, or SROs, over their members. SROs are non-governmental entities that are registered with, and regulated by, the SEC.

Securities industry SROs are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. To be a registered national securities exchange, an exchange must be able to carry out, and comply with, the purposes of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act. In addition, as an SRO, an exchange must be able to enforce compliance by its members, and individuals associated with its members, with the provisions of the Exchange Act, and its own rules. Finally, the legislative regulatory framework applicable to securities industry SROs has provisions regulating the conduct of participants in the regulated market. Importantly, the CEA contains provisions making it an offense for participants to engage in certain market behavior such as insider trading, market manipulation and market abuse. Breaches of those provisions give rise to the risk of sanctions, including financial or criminal penalties.

Broker-dealers must also register with the SEC, and members must register with an SRO, submit to federal and SRO regulation and perform various compliance and reporting functions.

NYSE, NYSE Arca and NYSE MKT, as SROs, are registered with, and subject to oversight by, the SEC. Accordingly, our U.S. securities exchanges are regulated by the SEC and, in turn, are the regulators of their members. These regulatory functions of our U.S. securities exchanges are performed or overseen by NYSE Regulation, and certain of our regulatory functions are performed by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA. In August 2013, the Securities Industry and Financial Market Association, or SIFMA, asked the SEC to review the SRO structure of the securities markets. In its letter, SIFMA states that for profit exchanges compete with the broker dealers they regulate, which SIFMA argues undercuts the regulatory authority of exchanges. The SEC has not announced any review of the SRO structure in response to SIFMA. However, if securities exchanges lose their status as SROs the exchanges would likely still have regulatory responsibilities over their markets but may lose the statutory immunity the exchanges receive in fulfilling their SRO responsibilities.

In Europe, Euronext operates exchanges in five European countries. Each of the Euronext exchanges and Euronext N.V. holds an exchange license granted by the relevant national exchange regulatory authority and operates under its supervision. Each market operator is also subject to national laws and regulations in its jurisdiction in addition to the requirements imposed by the national exchange authority and, in some cases, the central bank and/or the Ministry of Finance in the relevant European country. Regulation of Euronext and its constituent markets is conducted in a coordinated fashion by the respective national regulatory authorities pursuant to a memorandum of understanding relating to the regulated markets. Representatives of Euronext's regulatory authorities meet in working groups on a regular basis to coordinate their actions in areas of common interest and agree upon measures to promote harmonization of their respective national regulatory requirements. The working group coordinating these regulatory activities is referred to as the Euronext College of Regulators.

The integration of Euronext's trading platforms has been fostered and accompanied by regulatory harmonization. A single rulebook governs trading on Euronext's cash and derivatives markets, which contains a set of harmonized rules and a set of exchange-specific rules.

The regulatory framework in which Euronext operates is substantially influenced and governed by European directives, including MiFID.

When Euronext was formed in 2000, Euronext N.V., together with Euronext Amsterdam N.V., received a joint exchange license from the Dutch authorities to operate regulated markets, which means that Euronext N.V. is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Dutch Minister of Finance and the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (Autoriteit Financiële Markten, or "AFM") as Dutch market operator along with Euronext Amsterdam N.V. The powers of the Dutch Minister of Finance and the AFM include the right to grant or withhold (on specified statutory grounds) a declaration of no objection, or information, consultation, assessment and approval rights, as applicable,  over (i) the direct or indirect acquisition by any person of 10% or more of the shares in a Dutch market operator, (ii) the appointment of the policy makers of the market operators, (iii) any mergers, cross-shareholdings and joint ventures involving any Dutch market operator and (iv) any actions that may affect the proper operation of the Dutch exchanges.

Euronext's European market operators hold licenses for operating multiple European regulated markets and each market operator, with the exception of LIFFE Administration and Management, also operates a number of markets that do not fall within the European definition of "regulated markets". Each market operator is subject to national laws and regulations pursuant to its market operator status.












Euronext Amsterdam

Operation of a regulated market in the Netherlands requires a license from the Dutch Minister of Finance, which may amend or revoke the license at any time. AFM, together with De Nederlandsche Bank, acts as the regulatory authority for members of Euronext Amsterdam, supervises the primary and secondary markets, ensures compliance with market rules and monitors clearing and settlement operations.

Euronext Brussels

Euronext Brussels is governed by, and recognized as a market undertaking under the Belgian Act of August 2, 2002. Pursuant to the Act, the Financial Services and Markets Authority, or FSMA, is responsible for disciplinary powers against members and issuers, control of sensitive information, supervision of markets, and investigative powers. Euronext Brussels is responsible for the organization of the markets and the admission, suspension and exclusion of members, and has been appointed by law as a "competent authority" within the meaning of the Listing Directive.

Euronext Lisbon

Euronext Lisbon is governed by the Portuguese Decree of Law no. 357-C/2007, which, along with the Portuguese Securities Code and regulations of the Comissão do Mercado de Valores Mobilários, or CMVM, govern the regime for regulated markets and multilateral trading facilities (as described under the MiFID regime), market operators and all companies with related activities in Portugal. The creation of regulated market companies requires prior authorization in the form of a decree from the Portuguese Minister of Finance, following consultation with the CMVM. The CMVM is an independent public authority that monitors markets and market participants, public offerings and collective investment undertakings.

Euronext Paris

Euronext Paris is subject to the French Monetary and Financial Code, which authorizes the French Minister of Finance to confer and revoke regulated market status upon the recommendation of the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, or AMF and following an opinion from the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel, or ACP.

Euronext Paris is also subject to French banking legislation and regulations as a specialized financial institution, which means that it is subject to supervision by the ACP. Euronext N.V., as the indirect parent of Euronext Paris, qualifies as a financial holding company for purposes of banking regulations, and is also subject to certain reporting and statutory requirements, including those relating to minimum solvency and other ratios and minimum equity requirements.

Other U.K. Regulated Firms

LIFFE Services Ltd. is regulated by the FCA as a service company. SmartPool Trading Limited is an investment firm which operates a Multilateral Trading Facility, or MTF, and it is regulated by the FCA.

NYSE Regulation

Our U.S. securities exchanges are charged with oversight of the financial and operational status and sales-practice conduct of members and their employees, and have responsibility for regulatory review of their trading activities on those exchanges. In addition, our U.S. securities exchanges are responsible for enforcing compliance with their respective financial and corporate governance standards by listed companies.

Financial, operational and sales practice oversight of the members of our U.S. securities exchanges is generally conducted by FINRA. In addition, FINRA performs the market surveillance and related enforcement functions for our U.S. securities exchanges, pursuant to an agreement with us, although our U.S. securities exchanges retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for the regulatory functions performed by FINRA under that agreement. NYSE Regulation, which is an indirect not-for-profit subsidiary of NYSE Euronext, oversees FINRA's performance of these services; enforces listed company compliance with applicable standards; oversees regulatory policy determinations, regulation related rule development and interpretation; and conducts limited real-time monitoring of trading activity on the facilities of our U.S. securities exchanges. It also monitors our markets for compliance with their rules.

In addition, our U.S. securities exchanges that maintain options trading markets have entered into a joint agreement with the other U.S. options exchanges for conducting options insider trading surveillances. Our U.S. securities exchanges continue to have regulatory responsibility for these functions, which are monitored by NYSE Regulation. Our U.S. securities exchanges have also entered into several agreements with FINRA and other U.S. securities exchanges pursuant to Rule 17d-2 under the Exchange Act, which have been approved by the SEC and pursuant to which our U.S. securities exchanges are relieved of regulatory responsibility with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members.












Structure, Organization and Governance of NYSE Regulation

We have an agreement with NYSE Regulation to provide it adequate funding to allow it to perform or oversee, as applicable, the regulatory functions of our U.S. securities exchanges. NYSE Regulation can levy fines on members on behalf of our U.S. securities exchanges as part of disciplinary action. Income from fines is used only to fund non-compensation expenses of NYSE Regulation. The use of fine income by NYSE Regulation is subject to specific review and approval by the NYSE Regulation board of directors. No regulatory fees, fines or penalties collected by NYSE Regulation may be distributed to any entity other than NYSE Regulation.

NYSE Regulation is a separately incorporated, not-for-profit entity. Each director of NYSE Regulation (other than its chief executive officer) must be independent under the independence policy of the NYSE Euronext board of directors, and a majority of the members of the NYSE Regulation board of directors and its compensation committee and nominating and governance committee must be persons who are not directors of ICE. NYSE Regulation is responsible for all listing compliance decisions with respect to ICE’s listing on the NYSE.

Trade Reporting

NYSE operates the Securities Information Processor, or SIP, for the Consolidated Tape Association which oversees the dissemination of real-time trade and quote information in New York Stock Exchange LLC (Network A) and BATS, NYSE Arca, NYSE MKT and other regional exchange (Network B) listed securities. We also operate the SIP for the options markets. Due to recent technology problems at another SIP, the SEC has formed a task force which includes representatives from each of the SROs to develop a plan to enhance the controls of the SIPs. These discussions are ongoing and a timeframe for action is still uncertain.  In addition, NYSE operates the FINRA/NYSE Trade Reporting Facility, or TRF, to serve our customers reporting off-exchange trades in all listed national market system stocks.

Regulatory Auditor

NYSE

In April 2005, the SEC instituted and simultaneously settled an administrative proceeding against the NYSE. The SEC's action related to detection and prevention of activities of specialists who engaged in unlawful proprietary trading on the floor of the NYSE. As part of the settlement, the NYSE agreed to comply with certain undertakings, one of which was to retain a third-party regulatory auditor to conduct, every two years through 2011, a comprehensive regulatory audit of NYSE Regulation's surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs applicable to specialists and other floor members.

The SEC order relating to the settlement provides that the regulatory auditor is required to report the auditor's conclusions to the NYSE board and to the SEC, and those conclusions are to be included in our annual report. Accordingly, the conclusions of the regulatory auditor, James H. Cheek, III and Bass, Berry & Sims PLC, as reported to NYSE on February 21, 2013, are as follows:

Pursuant to our retention as contemplated in that certain Order of the SEC dated April 12, 2005 (the “2005 Order”), we have conducted a comprehensive regulatory audit (the “Regulatory Audit”) of the surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs of NYSE Regulation applicable to trading by designated market makers, member firm floor brokers and independent floor brokers (collectively, “Floor Members”) for the two years ended December 31, 2012 (the “Audit Period”).

Based on our audit procedures and our consideration of the factors and assessments set forth in our confidential regulatory audit report (the “Audit Report”) to the Boards of Directors of NYSE Euronext and NYSE Regulation, the Director of the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations (“OCIE”) and the Director of the Division of Trading and Markets (“Trading and Markets”) and such other matters as we have deemed appropriate, we have concluded that during the Audit Period, notwithstanding certain weaknesses that we have identified, including those set forth in the Audit Report: (1) NYSE Regulation's policies and procedures were reasonably designed and effective to detect and deter violations of all applicable federal securities laws and New York Stock Exchange (“Exchange”) rules relating to trading by Floor Members; (2) NYSE Regulation was (i) in compliance with the above-referenced policies and procedures; and (ii) in compliance with the outstanding written recommendations made by OCIE or Trading and Markets relating to compliance with rules, or surveillance for rule violations, with respect to trading by Floor Members; and (3) the Exchange was in compliance with any outstanding undertakings contained in the 2005 Order and that certain Order of the SEC dated June 29, 1999 issued against the Exchange.

Because of its inherent limitations, no regulatory program or audit can provide absolute assurance that violations of federal securities laws and Exchange rules relating to trading by Floor Members will not occur or go undetected. Also, the continued reasonableness of design and effectiveness of NYSE Regulation's policies and procedures in future periods is subject to the












risk that such policies and procedures may become inadequate or ineffective because of changes in business or regulatory conditions or that the degree of compliance with such policies and procedures may deteriorate.

American Stock Exchange

Prior to NYSE Euronext's acquisition of the American Stock Exchange (“Amex,” formerly NYSE Amex and now NYSE MKT), Amex was subject to an SEC investigation into its various business and related regulatory oversight functions. In March 2007, the SEC approved Amex's settlement offer, which included, among other things, a commitment to engage a third-party auditor to conduct three audits to determine whether Amex's regulatory policies and procedures applicable to all Floor Members are reasonably designed and effective to ensure compliance with, and to deter violations of, the federal securities laws and Amex rules related to trading. The SEC order relating to the settlement provides that the auditor is required to report its opinion to Amex's Board of Governors and to the SEC, and the audit opinion is to be included in Amex's annual report. As Amex did not have an annual report at or after that date, the conclusion of the regulatory auditor is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Accordingly, the opinion of the regulatory auditor, James H. Cheek, III and Bass, Berry & Sims PLC dated May 17, 2012 is as follows:

Pursuant to our retention by NYSE Amex LLC (“Amex”) and NYSE Euronext, as contemplated in the Order of the SEC dated March 22, 2007 (the “2007 Order”), we have conducted a comprehensive audit of the Amex's surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs relating to trading applicable to all designated market makers and floor brokers, in the case of Amex equities trading, and specialists, directed market makers, market makers and floor brokers, in the case of Amex options trading (collectively, “Floor Members”), for the period beginning April 29, 2010 and ending April 28, 2012 (the “Audit Period”).

Based on our audit procedures and our consideration of the factors and assessments set forth in our confidential regulatory audit report (the “Audit Report”) to the Board of Directors of NYSE Euronext, the Director of the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations (“OCIE”) and the Director of the Division of Trading and Markets (“Trading and Markets”) and such other matters as we have deemed appropriate, we have concluded that during the Audit Period, notwithstanding certain weaknesses that we have identified, including those set forth in the Audit Report: (1) the Amex's policies and procedures were reasonably designed and effective to ensure compliance with, and to detect and deter violations of, the federal securities laws and the Amex's rules relating to trading by Floor Members; and (2) the Amex was in compliance with (i) the above-referenced policies and procedures; (ii) any outstanding commitments made by the Amex in relation to the written recommendations made by OCIE or Trading and Markets relating to compliance with trading rules or surveillance for trading rule violations; and (iii) any undertakings contained in the 2007 Order or Section IV.B.f. of the Order of the SEC dated September 11, 2000.

Because of its inherent limitations, no regulatory program or audit can provide absolute assurance that violations of federal securities laws and Amex rules relating to trading by Floor Members will not occur or go undetected. Also, the continued reasonableness of design and effectiveness of the Amex's policies and procedures in future periods is subject to the risk that such policies and procedures may become inadequate or ineffective because of changes in business or regulatory conditions or that the degree of compliance with such policies and procedures may deteriorate.

Corporate Responsibility

We strive to create long-term value for our shareholders and to be a good corporate citizen including maintaining high ethical and business. We help those in need in the communities where we operate and support global organizations through a combination of financial resources and employee participation.

In addition, in 2010, we acquired the Climate Exchange PLC, the leading operator of global emissions markets, for approximately $600 million, which enabled us to expand and support the global emissions markets. We have also listed many other environmental products on our exchanges, including various renewable energy certificate contracts, California carbon allowance contracts and biofuel products related to renewable identification numbers. NYSE Euronext has been focused on measuring and improving its environmental impact and in 2010, it became the first global exchange to become 100% carbon neutral.

Available Information

Our principal executive offices are located at 2100 RiverEdge Parkway, Suite 500, Atlanta, Georgia 30328. Our main telephone number is (770) 857-4700.

We are required to file reports and other information with the SEC. A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any future Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports are, or will be,












available free of charge, on the Internet at the Company’s website (http://www.theice.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. A copy of these filings is also available at the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov). The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this report. Our reports, excluding exhibits, are also available free of charge by mail upon written request to our Secretary at the address listed above. You may read and copy any documents filed by us at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room.

In addition, we have posted on our website the charters for our (i) Audit Committee, (ii) Compensation Committee, (iii) Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and (iv) Risk Committee, as well as our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which includes our Whistleblower Hotline information, Board of Directors Governance Principles and Board Communication Policy. We will provide a copy of these documents without charge to stockholders upon request.





