Item 1.Business



For over fifty years, Sealed Air Corporation has been a leading
    global innovator and manufacturer of a wide range of packaging
    and performance-based materials and equipment systems that serve
    an array of food, industrial, medical and consumer applications.
    As a leading provider in the applications we serve, we
    differentiate ourselves through our:



•extensive global reach, by which we leverage our strengths
    across our 52-country footprint;•expertise in packaging sales, service, engineering and food
    science;•leading brands, such as our Bubble
    Wrap®brand cushioning,
    Jiffy®protective mailers,
    Instapak®foam-in-placesystems and
    Cryovac®packaging technology;•technology leadership with an emphasis on proprietary
    technologies; and•total systems offering that includes specialty materials,
    equipment systems and services.



Our operations generate approximately 54% of our revenue from
    outside the United States and approximately 16% of our revenue
    from developing regions. These developing regions are Africa,
    Central and Eastern Europe, China, Commonwealth of Independent
    States, India, Latin America, Middle East and Southeast Asia.



We conduct substantially all of our business through two direct
    wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cryovac, Inc. and Sealed Air
    Corporation (US). These two subsidiaries, directly and
    indirectly, own substantially all of the assets of the business
    and conduct operations themselves and through subsidiaries
    around the world. Throughout this Annual Report onForm 10-K,when we refer to “Sealed Air,” the
    “Company,” “we,” “us” or
    “our,” we are referring to Sealed Air Corporation and
    all of our subsidiaries, except where the context indicates
    otherwise. Also, when we cross reference to a “Note,”
    we are referring to our “Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.



Our
    Business Strategies



Our business is growth oriented, with goals of 5% to 6% average
    annual organic sales growth (volume and product price/mix) and a
    15% operating profit margin by the 2012/2013 timeframe.



The key strategic priorities developed to achieve these goals
    are:





•Innovation leadership with ongoing solution and service
    development:We continue to expand our presence
    in both existing and new end market applications by focusing on
    innovative solutions that bring measurable value to our
    customers and to end-consumers. Our distinctive systems approach
    accommodates ongoing innovation in differentiated materials,
    products and equipment systems, as well as integrated packaging
    solutions and other services.



•Growth in developing regions:With an
    international focus and extensive geographic footprint, we will
    leverage our broad portfolio and strengths in innovation to grow
    in developing regions. Urbanization, global trade, increased
    protein consumption and the conversion to safe and hygienic
    packaged goods are key secular trends present in developing
    regions.



•Focus on cash flow and return on assets:We
    focus on generating substantial operating cash flow so that we
    may continue investing in innovative research and development in
    the business and its strategies, and return capital to
    stockholders.



•Optimize processes and operations to maximize
    profitability:We are focused on deriving greater
    supply chain efficiencies by leveraging scale, optimizing
    processes and reducing complexity and costs.



•Sustainability:Our global
    Smartlifetminitiative highlights our focus and dedication to responsible
    management of our business, to minimizing risks and being good
    stewards of the environment and to the communities we live in
    and serve. We focus on source reduction, recyclability and the
    growing use of





renewable content, as well as efficient use of energy and other
    resources through the entire life cycle of our products: from
    in-house manufacturing through to the waste stream.



•Develop our people:A core strength is our
    people. We will grow our business through ongoing development of
    key skills in a diverse workforce that abides by our Code of
    Conduct.



Segments



We report our business publicly in four parts: three reportable
    segments and an “Other” category.



Our reportable segments are:



1. Food Packaging;



2. Food Solutions; and



3. Protective Packaging, which includes Shrink Packaging.



Our Other category includes:



(a) Specialty Materials;



(b) Medical Applications; and



(c) New Ventures.



Information concerning our reportable segments, including net
    sales, depreciation and amortization, operating profit and
    assets, appears in Note 3, “Segments”.



Descriptions
    of the Reportable Segments and Other Category



We offer a broad range of solutions across leading brands
    worldwide. Approximately 60% of our total net sales in each of
    the three years ended December 31, 2010 were in our food
    businesses, while approximately 30% of our total net sales were
    in our industrial packaging businesses (Protective Packaging
    segment and Specialty Materials business). The balance of our
    net sales has been primarily in our Medical Applications
    business.



Food
    Packaging



In this segment, we focus on the automated packaging of
    perishable foods, predominantly fresh and processed meats and
    cheeses. Our products are sold primarily to food processors,
    distributors, supermarket retailers and foodservice businesses.
    We market these products mostly under the
    Cryovac®trademark. This segment’s growth opportunities are targeted
    toward developments in technologies that enable our customers to
    package and ship their meat and cheese products effectively
    through their supply chain. These technologies focus on
    automation and packaging integration solutions, innovation in
    material science and expansion of the sale of our products into
    developing regions, where consumers continue to increase their
    protein consumption and are transitioning to packaged products.



Our Food Packaging segment offerings include:



•shrink bags to vacuum package many fresh food products,
    including beef, lamb, pork, poultry and seafood, as well as
    cheese and smoked and processed meats;•packaging materials for cook-in applications, predominately for
    deli and foodservice businesses;•a wide range of laminated and coextruded rollstock packaging
    materials utilized in thermoforming and form, fill and seal
    applications, providing an effective packaging option for a
    variety of fresh meat, smoked and processed meat, seafood,
    poultry and cheese applications;•packaging trays; and•associated packaging equipment and systems, including bag
    loaders, dispensers and vacuum chamber systems.







Some of our more recent product offerings in this segment are:



•Oven
    Easetmovenable bag for bone-in or boneless meat and poultry products;•Cryovac
    Roboloader®system, which combines a product-detecting conveyor, which
    measures a product’s width, and, using a robotic arm,
    selects and opens the corresponding bag for the product’s
    size from one of up to six dispensing units;•PakFormancetmintegrated packaging solutions — systems combining
    hardware, software, equipment and services that give food
    processors control and oversight of the food packaging process;•Multi-Seal®package, an easy open and reclosable deli package;•Freshness
    Plus®oxygen scavenging systems and odor scavenging materials;•Cryovac Grip &
    Tear®bags, easy-open end-seal bags for fresh meats, poultry, and
    smoked and processed products;•Cryovac®BL145 and BL175 automatic loaders for roll-serrated bags and
    equipment systems for rollstock form fill shrink materials,
    which provide labor saving opportunities for fresh meat and
    smoked and processed meat applications; and•Cryovac®CNP310 heavy bags for post-packaging pasteurization of smoked
    and processed products.



Food
    Solutions



In this segment, we target advanced food packaging technologies
    that provide consumers convenient access to fresh, consistently
    prepared, high-quality meals, either from foodservice outlets or
    from expanding retail cases at grocery stores. We sell the
    products in this reportable segment primarily to food
    processors, distributors, supermarket retailers and foodservice
    businesses. Our trademarks in this segment include
    Cryovac®,

    Simple
    Steps®and
    Darfresh®.

    This segment’s growth strategy is focused on developing
    convenience-oriented solutions through material science and
    innovative end applications that serve both consumers and the
    commercial chef.



Our Food Solutions segment offerings include:



•case-ready packaging offerings that are utilized in the
    centralized packaging of various proteins, including beef, lamb,
    poultry, smoked and processed meats, seafood and cheese, for
    retail sale at the consumer level;•ready meals packaging, including our Simple
    Steps®package, a microwavable package designed with vacuum skin
    packaging technology and a unique self-venting feature, as well
    as our flex-tray-flex package, which is an oven-compatible
    package that utilizes skin-pack technology;•vertical pouch packaging systems for packaging flowable food
    products, including soups, sauces, salads, meats, toppings and
    syrups, including film and filling equipment systems for
    products utilizing hot and ambient, retort and aseptic
    processing methods;•packaging solutions for produce, bakery goods and pizza,
    including our Cryovac
    PizzaFresh®offering;•Entapack®intermediate bulk container products, which are used in the
    food, beverage and industrial processing industries for storage
    and transportation of primarily liquid material;•foam and solid plastic trays and containers that customers use
    to package a wide variety of food products;•absorbent products used for food packaging, such as our
    Dri-Loc®absorbent pads; and•related packaging equipment systems, including vertical pouch
    packaging systems and vacuum chamber systems.



Some of our more recent new product offerings in this segment
    are:



•Cryovac®BDF®Soft, a high performance barrier over-wrap film;•Cryovac®Darfresh®Ultra, an extended shelf life skin packaging system;







•Cryovac®Flavour
    Marktmpackaging materials and systems for shelf stable applications;•Cryovac®Permelidtmlid materials for applications requiring high oxygen
    transmission; and•Cryovac®new generation
    Darfresh®XT, a high performance skin top web.



Outsourced
    Products



Approximately 17% of the products we sell in this segment are
    fabricated by other manufacturers and are referred to as
    outsourced products. The largest category of outsourced products
    is foam and solid plastic trays and containers fabricated in
    North America, Europe and Asia. We also outsource the
    manufacture of selected equipment. We have strategically opted
    to use third-party manufacturers for technically less complex
    products in order to offer customers a broader range of
    solutions. We have benefited from this strategy with increased
    net sales and operating profit requiring minimal capital
    expenditures. See “Outsourced Products,” included in
    Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for further
    information. Our Food Packaging and Protective Packaging
    segments also sell outsourced products, but they represent a
    much smaller percent of their revenue.



Protective
    Packaging



This segment comprises our core protective packaging
    technologies and solutions aimed at traditional industrial
    applications as well as consumer-oriented packaging solutions.
    We aggregate our protective packaging products and shrink
    packaging products into our Protective Packaging segment for
    reporting purposes. We sell products in this segment primarily
    to distributors and manufacturers in a wide variety of
    industries as well as to retailers and toe-commerceand mail order fulfillment firms. This segment’s growth is
    focused on providing a broader range of protective packaging
    products and solutions worldwide by focusing on advancements in
    material science, automation, and the development of reliable
    customer equipment. We target markets that serve both developed
    and developing regions.



Our Protective Packaging segment offerings include:





•Bubble
    Wrap®brand and
    AirCap®brand air cellular packaging materials, which employ a
    “barrier layer” that retains air for longer lasting
    protection, forming a pneumatic cushion to protect products from
    damage through shock or vibration during shipment;



•Cryovac®,

    Opti®and
    CorTuff®polyolefin performance shrink films for product display,
    bundling and merchandising applications, which customers use to
    “shrink-wrap” a wide assortment of industrial,
    consumer, and food products;



•Shanklin®and
    Opti®shrink packaging equipment systems;



•Instapak®polyurethane foam packaging systems, which consist of
    proprietary blends of polyurethane chemicals, high performance
    polyolefin films and specially designed dispensing equipment
    that provide protective packaging for a wide variety of
    applications;



•Jiffy®mailers and bags, including lightweight, tear-resistant mailers
    lined with air cellular cushioning material that are marketed
    under the
    Jiffylite®and
    TuffGard®trademarks,
    Jiffy®padded mailers made from recycled kraft paper padded with
    macerated recycled newspaper, and
    Jiffy®ShurTuff®bags composed of multi-layered polyolefin film;



•PackTiger®paper cushioning system, a versatile high-speed paper packaging
    solution that includes both recycled paper and automated
    dispensing equipment;



•Kushion
    Kraft®,

    Custom
    Wraptm,

    Jiffy
    Packer®and Void
    Krafttmpaper packaging products;



•Korrvu®suspension and retention packaging;



•inflatable packaging systems, including our
    Fill-Air®inflatable packaging system, which converts rolls of
    polyethylene film into continuous perforated chains of
    air-filled cushions, our
    Fill-Air®RF system, which consists of a compact, portable inflator and
    self-sealing inflatable plastic bags, which is also available in
    a





fully automated model, and our NewAir
    I.B.®Express packaging system, which provideson-site,on-demand Barrier
    Bubble®cushioning material;



•PriorityPak®system, a high-speed product containment and protective
    packaging solution with advanced sensor technology, used for
    mail order and internet fulfillment applications;•systems that convert some of our packaging materials, such as
    air cellular cushioning materials, thin polyethylene foam and
    paper, into sheets of a pre-selected size and quantity; and•FillTecktmline of equipment and materials marketed by us for applications
    requiringon-siteproduction of high performance, air-filled, quilted cushioning
    material.



Some of our more recent product offerings in this segment are:



•Cryovac®CT-301®,

    CT-501tm,

    and
    CT-701tmultra-thin high performance polyolefin shrink films;•Cryovac®360 Shrink Sleeve films sold to converters for shrink labeling
    and shrink bundling applications in a wide variety of industrial
    and consumer goods;•Instapak
    Complete®foam-in-bagpackaging system, a compact bench-mounted system that
    incorporates advanced continuous foam tube technology;•Instapak®RC45 foam containing 25% renewable content, our first renewable
    content
    Instapak®foam formulation;•Bubble
    Wrap®Brand Recycled Grade containing a minimum of 50% pre-consumer
    recycled content — the highest recycled content air
    cellular cushioning;•Fill-Air
    Cyclone®inflatable packaging system, which produces high volume void
    fill packaging materials from a compact footprint;•FasFiltmpackaging system, which creates void-fill pads from 100%
    recycled paper;•PakNaturaltmloosefill, which is sourced from a renewable material that
    offers better cushioning performance while remaining cost
    competitive; and•Korrvu®Hybrid retention packaging represents a new design that is more
    efficient and economical to employ, especially with low profile
    electronics.



Other



We also focus on growth by utilizing our technologies in new
    market segments. This category includes specialty materials
    serving both packaging and non-packaging applications and
    medical products and applications. Additionally, this category
    includes several of our new ventures, such as vacuum insulated
    panels.



Specialty
    Materials



Our Specialty Materials business seeks to expand our product
    portfolio and core competencies into specialized and
    non-packaging applications and new market segments. We sell
    specialty materials products primarily to fabricators and
    manufacturers encompassing a wide array of businesses and end
    uses.



Our Specialty Materials offerings include:



•Ethafoam®,

    Stratocell®and
    Cellu-Cushion®family of foams, which are available in a variety of densities
    and colors and with a wide range of performance characteristics,
    including low abrasion, anti-static, formable, moisture barrier,
    gas barrier, printable, shrinkable and adhesive applications;•foams, films and composites for non-packaging markets, including
    transportation, construction, sports and leisure, and personal
    care;•temperature controlled supply chain products, including our
    TurboTag®system, a temperature monitoring product for pharmaceutical,
    biological and food industry customers; and







•super-insulation products utilizing thermal insulation in the
    form of vacuum insulated panels that provide energy efficiency
    for specialized packaging, such as aerospace, pharmaceutical and
    biological applications, and non-packaging applications.



Two of our newest products in this category are our
    Ethafoam®HRC (High Recycled Content) polyethylene foam, containing a
    minimum of 65% pre-consumer recycled content, and our
    Ethafoam®MRC (Maximum Recycled Content) Polyethylene foam, containing
    100% pre-consumer recycled content.



Medical
    Applications



The goal of our Medical Applications business is to provide
    solutions offering superior protection and reliability to the
    medical, pharmaceutical and medical device industries. We sell
    medical applications products directly to medical device
    manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies and to the contract
    packaging firms that supply them.



Our medical applications offerings include:



•flexible films, tubing and connectors for use in the manufacture
    of bags and pouches for a wide variety of medical applications
    including ostomy, IV and solution drug therapies, and medical
    devices;•custom designed, rigid thermoformed packaging materials for
    medical devices and technical products; and•equipment to seal thermoformed trays to lidding materials.



New
    Ventures



Our New Ventures area includes several development projects that
    include technologies and solutions sourced from renewable
    materials, proprietary process technologies that have
    opportunity for application within our manufacturing processes
    and for future licensing, as well as equipment systems that
    offer an automated packaging service for high-volume fulfillment
    orpick-and-packoperators. Two examples of development projects are ourI-Pack®and
    Ultipack®automated void reduction and containment systems that provide
    efficient, automated packaging processes that minimize carton
    sizes and void fill requirements. These systems are being
    offered as a service and sold using a unique per-package charge
    model.



Foreign
    Operations



We operate through our subsidiaries and have a presence in the
    United States and in the 51 other countries listed below,
    enabling us to distribute our products in 77 countries.



AmericasEurope, Middle East and AfricaAsia-PacificArgentinaAustriaNetherlandsAustraliaBrazilBelgiumNorwayChinaCanadaCzech RepublicPolandIndiaChileDenmarkPortugalIndonesiaColombiaFinlandRomaniaJapanCosta RicaFranceRussiaMalaysiaEcuadorGermanySouth AfricaNew ZealandGuatemalaGreeceSpainPhilippinesMexicoHungarySwedenSingaporePeruIrelandSwitzerlandSouth KoreaUruguayIsraelTurkeyTaiwanVenezuelaItalyUkraineThailandLuxembourgUnited KingdomVietnam





In maintaining our foreign operations, we face risks inherent in
    these operations, such as currency fluctuations, inflation and
    political instability. Information on currency exchange risk
    appears in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K,which information is incorporated herein by reference. Other
    risks attendant to our foreign





operations are set forth in Part I, Item 1A,
    “Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report onForm 10-K,which information is incorporated herein by reference. Financial
    information showing net sales and total long-lived assets by
    geographic region for each of the three years ended
    December 31, 2010 appears in Note 3,
    “Segments,” which information is incorporated herein
    by reference. We maintain programs to comply with the various
    laws, rules and regulations related to the protection of the
    environment that we may be subject to in the many countries in
    which we operate. See “Environmental Matters,” below.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    16,100 employees worldwide. Approximately 6,800 of these
    employees were in the U.S., with approximately 100 of these
    employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the
    approximately 9,300 employees who were outside the U.S.,
    approximately 6,300 were covered by collective bargaining
    agreements. Outside of the U.S., many of the covered employees
    are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is
    customary in the jurisdictions in which they are employed. We
    believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.



Marketing,
    Distribution and Customers



At December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 2,300
    sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the
    world who sell and market our products to and through a large
    number of distributors, fabricators, converters,e-commerceand mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms
    as well as directly to end-users such as food processors,
    foodservice businesses, supermarket retailers, pharmaceutical
    companies, medical device manufacturers and other manufacturers.



To support our food packaging, food solutions and new ventures
    customers, we operate two food science laboratories and three
    Packforum®innovation and learning centers that are located in the U.S.,
    France, and China. At
    Packforum®,

    we assist customers in identifying the appropriate packaging
    materials and systems to meet their needs. We also offer
    ideation services, educational seminars, employee training and
    customized graphic design services to our customers.



To assist our marketing efforts for our protective packaging
    products and to provide specialized customer services, we
    operate 35 industrial package design and development
    laboratories worldwide within our facilities. These laboratories
    are staffed by professional packaging engineers and equipped
    with drop-testing and other equipment used to develop and test
    cost-effective package designs to meet the particular protective
    packaging requirements of each customer.



We operate five equipment design centers in three countries that
    focus on equipment and parts design and innovation to support
    the development of comprehensive systems solutions. We also
    provide field technical services to our customers worldwide.
    These services include system installation, integration and
    monitoring systems, repair and upgrade, operator training in the
    efficient use of packaging systems, qualification of various
    consumable and system combinations, and packaging line layout
    and design.



Our Medical Applications business offers two cleanroom contract
    assembly and packaging facilities in two countries, as well as a
    packaging validation lab. We also operate two equipment and
    medical device packaging labs in two countries that support
    customers’ package design needs and packaging equipment
    systems.



We have no material long-term contracts for the distribution of
    our products. In 2010, no customer or affiliated group of
    customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net
    sales.



Seasonality



Historically, net sales in our food businesses have tended to be
    slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards
    the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to
    holiday events. Our Protective Packaging segment has tended to
    also be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher during
    the“back-to-school”season in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter
    due to the holiday shopping season.





Competition



Competition for most of our packaging products is based
    primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and
    price. Since competition is also based upon innovations in
    packaging technology, we maintain ongoing research and
    development programs to enable us to maintain technological
    leadership. We invest approximately double the industry average
    on research and development as a percentage of net sales per
    year. There are also other companies producing competing
    products that are well-established.



There are other manufacturers of food packaging and food
    solutions products, some of which are companies offering similar
    products that operate across regions and others that operate in
    a single region or single country. Competing manufacturers
    produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic,
    metals and other materials. We believe that we are one of the
    leading suppliers of (i) flexible food packaging materials
    and related systems in the principal geographic areas in which
    we offer those products, (ii) barrier trays for case-ready
    meat products in the principal geographic areas in which we
    offers those trays, and (iii) absorbent pads for food
    products to supermarkets and to meat and poultry processors in
    the United States.



Our protective packaging products compete with similar products
    made by other manufacturers and with a number of other packaging
    materials that customers use to provide protection against
    damage to their products during shipment and storage. Among the
    competitive materials are various forms of paper packaging
    products, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, strapping,
    envelopes, reinforced bags, boxes and other containers, and
    various corrugated materials, as well as various types of molded
    foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics, mechanical shock
    mounts, and wood blocking and bracing systems. We believe that
    we are one of the leading suppliers of air cellular cushioning
    materials containing a barrier layer, inflatable packaging,
    suspension and retention packaging, shrink films for industrial
    and commercial applications, protective mailers, polyethylene
    foam and polyurethane foam packaging systems in the principal
    geographic areas in which we sell these products.



Competition in specialty materials is focused on performance
    characteristics and price. Competition for most of our medical
    applications products is based primarily on performance
    characteristics, service and price. Technical design capability
    is an additional competitive factor for the rigid packaging
    offered by the Medical Applications business.



Raw
    Materials



Our principal raw materials are polyolefin and other
    petrochemical-based resins and films, and paper and wood pulp
    products. These raw materials represent approximately one-third
    of our consolidated cost of goods sold. We also purchase
    corrugated materials, cores for rolls of products such as films
    and Bubble
    Wrap®brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, and blowing agents
    used in the expansion of foam packaging products. In addition,
    we offer a wide variety of specialized packaging equipment, some
    of which we manufacture or have manufactured to our
    specifications, some of which we assemble and some of which we
    purchase from suppliers.



The raw materials for our products generally have been readily
    available on the open market and in most cases are available
    from several suppliers. However, we have some sole-source
    suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a
    material negative impact on our business. Natural disasters such
    as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist
    activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery
    capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical
    suppliers in the future. These factors could lead to increased
    prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and
    allocation of raw materials by our suppliers. We source some
    materials used in our packaging products from materials recycled
    in our manufacturing operations or obtained through
    participation in recycling programs.



Sourcing



We have a centralized supply chain organization, which includes
    the centralized management of procurement and logistic
    activities. Our objective is to leverage our global scale to
    achieve sourcing efficiencies and reduce our total delivered
    cost across all our regions. We do this while adhering to
    strategic performance metrics and stringent sourcing practices.





Research
    and Development Activities



We maintain a continuing effort to develop new products and
    improve our existing products and processes, including
    developing new packaging and non-packaging applications using
    our intellectual property. From time to time, we also acquire
    and commercialize new packaging and other products or techniques
    developed by others. Our research and development projects rely
    on our technical capabilities in the areas of food science,
    materials science, package design and equipment engineering. We
    spent $88 million in 2010, $81 million in 2009 and
    $86 million in 2008 on research and development.



Patents
    and Trademarks



We are the owner or licensee of an aggregate of over 2,500
    United States and foreign patents and patent applications, as
    well as an aggregate of over 3,000 United States and foreign
    trademark registrations and trademark applications that relate
    to many of our products, manufacturing processes and equipment.
    We believe that our patents and trademarks collectively provide
    a competitive advantage. As such, each year we continue to file,
    in the aggregate, an average of 200 United States and foreign
    patent applications and 200 United States and foreign trademark
    applications. None of our reportable segments is dependent upon
    any single patent or trademark alone. Rather, we believe that
    our success depends primarily on our sales and service,
    marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills and on our
    ongoing research and development efforts. We believe that the
    expiration or unenforceability of any of our patents,
    applications, licenses or trademark registrations would not be
    material to our business or consolidated financial position.



Environmental,
    Health and Safety Matters



As a manufacturer, we are subject to various laws, rules and
    regulations in the countries, jurisdictions and localities in
    which we operate. These cover: the safe storage and use of raw
    materials and production chemicals; the release of materials
    into the environment; standards for the treatment, storage and
    disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; or otherwise relate to
    the protection of the environment. We review environmental,
    health and safety laws and regulations pertaining to our
    operations and believe that compliance with current
    environmental and workplace health and safety laws and
    regulations has not had a material effect on our capital
    expenditures or consolidated financial position.



In some jurisdictions in which our packaging products are sold
    or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that
    seek to regulate, among other things, minimum levels of recycled
    or reprocessed content and, more generally, the sale or disposal
    of packaging materials. In addition, customer demand continues
    to evolve for packaging materials that incorporate renewable
    materials or that are otherwise viewed as being
    “environmentally sound.” Our new venture activities,
    described above, include the development of packaging products
    from renewable resources. We maintain programs designed to
    comply with these laws and regulations, to monitor their
    evolution, and to meet this customer demand. One advantage
    inherent in many of our products is that thin, lightweight
    packaging solutions reduce waste and transportation costs in
    comparison to available alternatives. We continue to evaluate
    and implement new technologies in this area as they become
    available.



We also support our customers’ interests in eliminating
    waste by offering or participating in collection programs for
    some of our products or product packaging and for materials used
    in some of our products. When possible, materials collected
    through these programs are reprocessed and either reused in our
    protective packaging operations or offered to other
    manufacturers for use in other products. In addition, gains that
    we have made in internal recycling programs have allowed us to
    improve our net raw material yield, thus mitigating the impact
    of resin costs, while lowering solid waste disposal costs and
    controlling environmental liability risks associated with waste
    disposal.



Our emphasis on environmental, health and safety compliance
    provides us with risk reduction opportunities and cost savings
    through asset protection and protection of employees, for which
    we are recognized as leaders in our industry. Our website,www.sealedair.com,contains additional detailed
    information about our corporate citizenship initiatives.





Available
    Information



Our Internet address iswww.sealedair.com.We make
    available, free of charge, on or through our website atwww.sealedair.com, our Annual Report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable
    after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish
    them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



