Item 1.Business

Sealed Air is a global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. We serve an array
of end markets including food and beverage processing, food service, retail, health care and industrial, commercial and consumer applications. We have widely recognized and inventive brands such as Bubble Wrap®brand cushioning, Cryovac®brand food packaging solutions and now, as a result of our acquisition of Diversey Holdings, Inc. (“Diversey”) on October 3, 2011, Diversey®brand cleaning and hygiene solutions. We offer efficient and sustainable solutions that create business value for
customers, enhance the quality of life for consumers and provide a cleaner and healthier environment for future generations.

We are a leading global innovator in the applications we serve and we differentiate ourselves through our:



•extensive global reach, by which we leverage our strengths across our operations in 62 countries to reach customers in over 175 countries;



•expertise in packaging sales, service and engineering, hygiene and sanitation solutions, and in food science;



•leading brands, such as our Bubble Wrap®brand cushioning, Jiffy®protective mailers, Instapak®foam-in-place systems, Cryovac®packaging technology, and
Diversey®and TASKI®brand cleaning and hygiene solutions;



•technology leadership with an emphasis on proprietary technologies;



•total systems offering that includes specialty materials and formulations, equipment systems and services; and



•solid free cash flow generation from premium solutions to meet our customers’ needs, productivity improvements, working capital management and an
asset-light business model.

In 2011, our operations generated approximately 59% of our revenue from outside
the United States including approximately 18% of our revenue from developing regions. These developing regions are Africa, Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Central and Eastern Europe, and Latin America. We anticipate that on a full year
basis, as a result of the acquisition of Diversey, our operations will generate approximately 70% of our revenue from outside the United States including approximately 20% of our revenue from developing regions.

We conduct our operations through the following four business segments: Food Packaging, Food Solutions, Protective Packaging, Diversey
and an “Other” category. See “Segments” below for further details of our segment structure. We conduct substantially all of our business through three wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cryovac, Inc., Sealed Air Corporation (US) and now,
Diversey.

Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when we refer to “Sealed Air,” the “Company,”
“we,” “us” or “our,” we are referring to Sealed Air Corporation and all of our subsidiaries, except where the context indicates otherwise. Also, when we cross reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our
“Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.

Recent Events

Acquisition of Diversey

On October 3, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Diversey, a leading global provider of commercial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products, services and solutions for food safety and service,
food and beverage plant operations, floor care, housekeeping and room care, laundry and hand care. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, we paid in aggregate $2.1 billion in cash consideration and an aggregate of approximately
31.7 million shares of Sealed Air common stock to the shareholders of Diversey. We financed the payment of the cash consideration through (a) borrowings under our new Credit Facility, (b) proceeds from our issuance of the Notes and
(c) cash on hand. In connection with the acquisition, we also used our new borrowings to retire approximately $1.6 billion of existing indebtedness of Diversey. As of March 4, 2011, Diversey had approximately 10,170 employees and reported
net sales of $3.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. See Note 3, “Acquisition of Diversey Holdings, Inc.,” for further information about the acquisition and “New Segment Structure” below for information about our
announcement of the expected establishment of new business units and our current segment reporting structure.







The consolidated financial statements and information included in this Annual Report on Form
10-K (“Form 10-K”) includes the financial results of Diversey for the period beginning October 3, 2011 (the “acquisition date”) through December 31, 2011. The financial results included in this Form 10-K related to the
acquisition method of accounting for the Diversey transaction are subject to change as the acquisition method of accounting is not yet finalized and dependent upon the finalization of management’s review of certain independent valuations and
studies that are still in process. See Note 3, “Acquisition of Diversey Holdings, Inc.,” for further information about the acquisition and related transactions and the acquisition method of accounting.

New Segment Structure

On November 3, 2011, we announced the expected establishment of new business units for our segment reporting structure. The new segment reporting structure will consist of three global business
units. This new structure is expected to be implemented in 2012 and will replace our existing seven business unit structure and Diversey’s legacy four region-based structure.

The new segment reporting structure will include the following:

Food & Beverage —This new segment will combine our legacy Food Packaging and Food Solutions businesses with Diversey’s Food & Beverage applications. This segment will
focus on providing solutions that improve the management of contamination risk associated with food production and processing, extend product shelf life through packaging technologies, and improve merchandising, ease-of-use and back-of-house
processes. These solutions are designed to reduce customers’ total operating costs, improve operational efficiencies and reduce food waste and water and energy use.

Institutional & Laundry —This new segment will represent the legacy Diversey business serving institutional and industrial end-users such as food service providers, lodging
establishments, building service contractors, building managers and property owners, retail outlets, schools and health care facilities. This segment will focus on developing differentiated solutions for facility hygiene, food safety and security in
food service operations, and infection control. In addition, this segment offers a wide range of value-added services, including food safety and application training and consulting, and auditing of hygiene and water management. These solutions
create business value by improving operating efficiency, mitigating risk and reducing the overall environmental footprint of commercial and industrial facilities.

Protective Packaging —This new segment will combine our legacy Protective Packaging, Shrink Packaging and Specialty Materials businesses to provide customers with a broad portfolio of
protective packaging systems across a range of applications and industries.

There will also be an “Other” category,
which will include our legacy Medical Applications business and New Ventures.

Until the new organization is implemented, we
will continue to report our segment results using the following structure: Food Packaging, Food Solutions, Protective Packaging, Diversey and an Other category. Additionally, there will be no immediate changes in how we manage our business with our
customers, including the products, solutions and services we provide, however, our businesses will pursue revenue synergy opportunities where available.

New Directors Elected

On January 30, 2012, we announced that
Mr. Jerry R. Whitaker was elected to our Board of Directors as an independent director, effective immediately. Mr. Whitaker is the retired President of the Electrical Sector-Americas Group of Eaton Corporation, a global diversified
power management company that manufactures electrical and industrial products and services. The Electrical Sector-Americas represents the largest operating unit of Eaton Corporation. During Mr. Whitaker’s 17-year tenure at Eaton
Corporation, he held several executive management positions and established a track record of improving profitability across the multinational manufacturing footprint and expanding Eaton’s market presence in targeted segments. Currently,
Mr. Whitaker serves as a director of Matthews International Inc. and as a director of Crescent Electric Supply Company. He also serves on the boards of the Carnegie Science Center (serving as Chairman of the Carnegie Science Center Awards for
Excellence over the last ten years), the Allegheny Conference on Community Development, Pittsburgh American Middle East Institute and the Corporate Circles Board of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust. Mr. Whitaker holds a bachelor of science degree in
electrical engineering from Syracuse University and a master of business administration degree from George Washington University.







On January 17, 2012, we announced that Mr. Richard L. Wambold was elected to
our Board of Directors as an independent director, effective March 1, 2012. Mr. Wambold was formerly the Chief Executive Officer of Pactiv/Reynolds Foodservice and Consumer Products, a global manufacturer and supplier of consumer food and
beverage packaging and store products. Previously, Mr. Wambold served for approximately 12 years as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Pactiv Corporation, a global provider of advanced packaging solutions. Currently,
Mr. Wambold is a private investor and serves as a director of Cooper Tire and Rubber Company and as a director of Precision Castparts Corporation.

Our Business Strategies

We are focused on protection and expanding our
presence by innovating solutions that improve food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. Our strategy aligns with three global trends: the increased demand for protein and high-quality prepared foods from an expanding middle
class in developing regions; greater public and regulatory demand for safe, efficient and hygienic environments; and the expansion of global supply chains and e-commerce, which require efficient packaging solutions. Our business is well positioned
to leverage these trends through our extensive portfolio of proprietary solutions, leading research and development teams, our large international footprint and presence in developing regions, our access to broad distribution networks and our high
levels of customer service.

The key strategic priorities developed to achieve our growth goals are:

Maintain and Expand our Positions with Key Customers.We have developed a reputation for delivering exceptional
value to our customers as proven by our long-standing relationships and market leadership positions. Our total systems solution model often involves technology and equipment installed within our customers’ facilities which further enhances the
value we bring to our customers. We plan to build on the strength of these relationships to deliver end-to-end solutions across the food “Production-Packaging-Preparation-Consumption” continuum to become an increasingly important partner
to our customers.

Position our Company to Capture Growth Opportunities in Developing Regions.We are
focused on realizing growth from developing regions due to favorable demand trends, including: greater disposable income from a growing middle class; the continued urbanization of populations; increased wealth per capita driving greater demand for
protein and higher quality foods; and expansion of cold supply chains and Western-style retail supermarkets, which require more packaging. As a result, these regions represent opportunities for enhanced food production, packaging and processing,
which offer growth opportunities for our solutions.

Extend Reach and Maintain Innovation
Leadership.The Diversey acquisition provides additional scope, scale, and geographic reach to deliver proprietary solutions to address our customers’ unmet needs in managing food safety, hygiene and shelf life performance
while maximizing productivity and risk management and reducing costs. We believe our extensive competencies in food science, equipment automation, cleaning and sanitation and process integration position us to address these unmet needs globally. We
plan to build on these combined strengths by innovating new end-to-end solutions across the food “Production-Packaging-Preparation-Consumption” continuum that will provide measurable value for our customers and ultimately enhance the
efficacy and efficiency of food supply chains.

Integrate Diversey and Realize Cost Savings and Revenue
Synergies.We intend to achieve commercial and financial benefits from our integration of Diversey. We are proceeding with our extensive integration plan that addresses both commercial opportunities and areas for cost savings.
We expect to realize approximately $110 million to $115 million of annual gross cost savings by the end of 2014. We continue to anticipate $70 million of revenue synergies by the end of 2013, largely from expanding our access and presence
within our food and beverage processing customers’ businesses and broadening our reach in developing regions. We believe that cost and revenue synergies will further enhance our financial profile and future free cash flow generation.

Utilize Free Cash Flow to Repay Debt Obligations.We have a long track record of free cash flow
generation and deleveraging through the economic cycle. We plan to use internally-generated free cash flow to repay our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2011, our net debt was $5.2 billion. Our goal is to reduce net debt to $4.9 billion by
the end of 2012 and then to $4.5 billion by the end of 2013. In addition, we plan to opportunistically invest in our businesses to further enhance our free cash flow generation in the future, which will create additional value for shareholders.

Segments

We currently report our business publicly in five parts: four reportable segments and an “Other” category.

Our reportable segments are:

1. Food Packaging;

2. Food Solutions;

3. Protective Packaging, which includes Shrink Packaging; and

4. Diversey.







Our Other category includes:

(a) Specialty Materials;

(b) Medical Applications; and

(c) New Ventures.

Information concerning our reportable segments, including net sales, depreciation and amortization, operating profit and certain assets,
appears in Note 4, “Segments.”

Descriptions of the Reportable Segments and Other Category

We offer a broad range of solutions across leading brands worldwide.

Food Packaging Segment

In this segment, we focus on the automated packaging of perishable foods, predominantly fresh and processed meats and cheeses. Our products are sold primarily to food processors, distributors, supermarket
retailers and foodservice operators. We market these products under the Cryovac®trademark and sub-brands such
as Cryovac Grip & Tear®, Oven EaseTMand Multi-Seal®. This segment’s growth opportunities are targeted toward developments in technologies that enable our customers to package and ship their meat and cheese
products effectively through their supply chain. These technologies focus on automation and packaging integration solutions, innovation in material science and expansion of the sale of our products into developing regions, where consumers continue
to increase their protein consumption and are transitioning to packaged products.

Our Food Packaging segment offerings
include:



•shrink bags to vacuum package many fresh food products, including beef, lamb, pork, poultry and seafood, as well as cheese and smoked and processed
meats;



•packaging materials for cook-in applications, predominantly for deli and foodservice businesses;



•a wide range of laminated and coextruded rollstock packaging materials utilized in thermoforming and form, fill and seal applications, providing an
effective packaging option for a variety of fresh meat, smoked and processed meat, seafood, poultry and cheese applications;



•packaging trays; and



•associated packaging equipment and systems, including bag loaders, dispensers and vacuum chamber systems.

Food Solutions Segment

In this segment, we target advanced food packaging technologies that provide consumers convenient access to fresh, consistently prepared, high-quality meals, either from foodservice outlets or from
expanding retail cases at grocery stores. We sell the products in this reportable segment primarily to food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers and foodservice operators. We market these products under the Cryovac®trademark and sub-brands such as Simple Steps®, Cryovac Mirabella®and
Darfresh®. This segment’s growth strategy is focused on developing convenience-oriented solutions through
material science and innovative end applications that serve both consumers and the commercial chef.

Our Food Solutions
segment offerings include:



•case-ready packaging offerings that are utilized in the centralized packaging of various proteins, including beef, pork, lamb, poultry, smoked and
processed meats, seafood and cheese, for retail sale at the consumer level;







•ready meals packaging, including our Simple Steps®solution, a microwavable package designed with vacuum skin packaging technology and a unique self-venting feature, as well as our flex-tray-flex package, which is an
oven-compatible package that utilizes skin-pack technology;



•vertical pouch packaging solutions for packaging flowable food products, including soups, sauces, salads, meats, toppings and syrups, including film
and filling equipment systems for products utilizing hot and ambient, retort and aseptic processing methods;



•foam and solid plastic trays and containers that customers use to package a wide variety of food products;



•absorbent products used for food packaging, such as our Dri-Loc®absorbent pads; and



•related packaging equipment, including vacuum chamber systems.

Protective Packaging Segment

This segment comprises our core protective packaging technologies and solutions aimed at traditional industrial applications as well as consumer-oriented packaging solutions. We aggregate our protective
packaging products and shrink packaging products into our Protective Packaging segment for reporting purposes. We sell products in this segment primarily to distributors and manufacturers in a wide variety of industries as well as to retailers and
to e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms. This segment’s growth is focused on providing a broad range of protective packaging products and solutions worldwide by focusing on advancements in material science, automation, and the
development of reliable customer equipment. We target markets that serve both developed and developing regions.

Our
Protective Packaging segment offerings include:



•Bubble Wrap®and AirCap®brand air cellular packaging materials, which employ a “barrier layer” that retains air
for longer lasting protection, forming a pneumatic cushion to protect products from damage through shock or vibration during shipment;



•Cryovac®, Opti®and CorTuff®polyolefin performance shrink films for product display, bundling and merchandising applications, which customers use to “shrink-wrap” a wide assortment of
industrial, consumer, and food products;



•Shanklin®and
Opti®shrink packaging equipment systems;



•Instapak®polyurethane foam packaging systems, which consist of proprietary blends of polyurethane chemicals, high performance polyolefin films and specially designed dispensing equipment that provide protective packaging for a wide variety of applications;



•Jiffy®mailers
and bags, including lightweight, tear-resistant mailers lined with air cellular cushioning material that are marketed under the Jiffylite®and TuffGard®trademarks,
Jiffy®padded mailers made from recycled kraft paper padded with macerated recycled newspaper, and Jiffy®ShurTuff®bags composed of multi-layered polyolefin film;



•inflatable packaging systems, including our Fill-Air®inflatable packaging system, which converts rolls of polyethylene film into continuous perforated chains of air-filled cushions, our Fill-Air®RF system, which consists of a compact, portable inflator and self-sealing inflatable plastic bags, which is also
available in a fully automated model, and our NewAir I.B.®Express packaging system, which provides on-site,
on-demand Barrier Bubble®cushioning material;



•PackTiger®paper cushioning system, a versatile high-speed paper packaging solution that includes both recycled paper and automated dispensing equipment;



•Kushion
Kraft®, Custom WrapTM, Jiffy Packer®and Void KraftTMpaper packaging products; and



•Korrvu®suspension and retention packaging.

Diversey Segment

Products and Services

Our Diversey segment offers a wide range of products and services designed primarily for use in five application categories: food service, food and beverage manufacturing and processing, floor care,
restroom care and other housekeeping, and laundry. Many of our products are consumable and require periodic replacement, which generates recurring revenue and helps provide consistency in business performance.







The global sustainability movement is expected to be a long-term driver of growth in the
industries we serve, as customers seek products and expertise that reduce their environmental profile while also providing clean, hygienic facilities that reduce the risk of human- and food-borne infection. Our extensive suite of products, services
and solutions improves our customers’ operational efficiency as well as their cleaning, sanitizing and hygiene results, which we believe assists them in protecting their brands. We also help our customers achieve their goals of reducing waste,
energy and water consumption, and we are able to provide documented analysis of the cost and resource savings they can achieve by implementing our solutions.

Food Service.Food Service products remove soil and address microbiological contamination on
food contact surfaces. Our food service products include chemicals for washing dishes, glassware, flatware, utensils and kitchen equipment; dish machines; pre-rinse units; dish tables and racks; food handling and storage products; and safe floor
systems and tools. We also manufacture and supply kitchen cleaning products, such as general purpose cleaners, lime scale removers, bactericides/disinfectants, detergents, oven and grill cleaners, general surface degreasers, floor cleaners and food
surface disinfectants. In addition, we provide customers with expertise to execute cleaning and hygiene programs. These applications are sold into a variety of end use applications, including contract and in-flight caterers, restaurant chains and
lodging establishments. We also have a relationship with Cintas Corporation through which we provide application expertise and a food service portfolio under Cintas’ SignetTMbrand.

Food and Beverage Manufacturing and Processing.Food and Beverage Manufacturing and Processing products include
detergents, cleaners, sanitizers and lubricants, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products and improvement of operational efficiency and sanitation. We also offer gel and foam
products for manual open plant cleaning, acid and alkaline cleaners and membrane cleaning products. In addition, we provide consulting services in the areas of food safety, water and energy use reduction and quality management.

Floor Care.We manufacture a broad range of floor care products and systems, including
finishes, waxes, cleaners, degreasers, polishes, sealers and strippers for all types of flooring surfaces, including vinyl, terrazzo, granite, concrete, marble, linoleum and wood. We also provide a full range of carpet cleaners, such as extraction
cleaners and shampoos; carpet powders; treatments, such as pre-sprays and deodorizers; and a full line of carpet spotters. Our range of products also includes carpet cleaning and floor care machines, as well as utensils and tools, which support the
cleaning and maintenance process. Among the product brands are TASKI®floor care machines and Signature®floor finish. These products are sold primarily for use in building management, retail, lodging and health care
customer sectors.

Restroom Care and Other Housekeeping.We offer a fully
integrated line of products and dispensing systems for hard surface cleaning, disinfecting and sanitizing, hand washing and air deodorizing and freshening. Our restroom care and other housekeeping products include bowl and hard surface cleaners,
hand soaps, sanitizers, air care products, general purpose cleaners, disinfectants and specialty cleaning products. Among the product brands are Clax®, J-Flextmand Oxivir®. These products are sold into the food service,
building management, retail, lodging and health care customer sectors.

Laundry.We offer detergents, stain removers, fabric conditioners, softeners and bleaches in
liquid, powder and concentrated forms to clean items such as bed linen, clothing and table linen. Our range of products covers requirements of fabric care for domestic-sized machines in small lodging facilities to washers in commercial laundry
facilities. We also offer customized washing programs for different levels and types of soils, a comprehensive range of dispensing equipment and a selection of process control and management information systems. Through a joint venture with Standard
Textile Company, we provide a commercial laundry application that combines a unique activator unit with proprietary chemistry to deliver a fully integrated cleaning and sanitizing solution. Leading brands include Clax®, Suma®and Proteustm. These products are sold primarily into the lodging, and health care and commercial laundry customer sectors.

Diversey Segment End-Users and Customers

We offer our Diversey products
directly or through third-party distributors to end-users in seven sectors — food service, lodging, retail, health care, building managers/service contractors, food and beverage and other.

Food Service.End-users include fast food and full-service restaurants as well as contract caterers.

Lodging.We serve many of the largest hotel chains in the world as well as local independent properties and
regional chains.







Retail.Retail end-users include supermarkets, drug stores,
discounters, hypermarkets and wholesale clubs.

Health Care.These customers include both public and
private hospitals, long-term care facilities and other facilities where medical services are performed.

Building Service
Contractors/Facility Management.These end-users include building owners/managers as well as building service contractors and building owners/managers. Contractors clean, maintain and manage a variety of facilities including
office buildings, retail stores, health care facilities, production facilities, and education and government institutions.

Food and Beverage.Food and Beverage end-users include dairy plants, dairy farms, breweries, soft-drink and juice
bottling plants, protein and processed food production facilities, and other food processors.

In addition, we serve customers
in cash and carry establishments, industrial plants and laundries. Cash and carry establishments are stores in which professional end-users purchase products for their own use.

Other

We also focus on growth by utilizing our technologies in new market segments. This category includes specialty materials serving both packaging and non-packaging applications and medical products and
applications. Additionally, this category includes several of our new ventures, such as vacuum insulated panels.

Specialty
Materials

Our Specialty Materials business seeks to expand our product portfolio and core competencies into specialized
and non-packaging applications and new market segments. We sell specialty materials products primarily to fabricators and manufacturers encompassing a wide array of businesses and end uses.

Medical Applications

The goal of our Medical Applications business is to provide solutions offering superior protection and reliability to the medical, pharmaceutical and medical device industries. We sell medical
applications products directly to medical device manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies and to the contract packaging firms that supply them.

New Ventures

Our New Ventures area includes several development projects.
These include technologies and solutions sourced from renewable materials, proprietary process technologies that have opportunity for application within our manufacturing processes and for future licensing, and equipment systems that offer an
automated packaging service for high-volume fulfillment or pick-and-pack operators. Two examples of development projects are the I-Pack and Ultipack automated void reduction and containment systems that provide efficient, automated packaging
processes that minimize carton sizes and void fill requirements. These systems are being offered as a service and sold using a unique per-package charge model.

Outsourced Products

In addition to net sales from products produced in
our facilities, we also sell products fabricated by other manufacturers, which we refer to as “outsourced products.” Outsourced products are mostly sold in our Food Solutions and Diversey segments. Food Solutions’ outsourced products
include, among others, foam and solid plastic trays and containers fabricated primarily in North America and in Europe that largely support our Food Solution segment’s case ready products. Diversey’s outsourced products include, among
others, most non-chemical products, including, dosing and dispensing equipment, cleaning tools and utensils, paper products and food and beverage cleaning equipment fabricated primarily in Europe and Asia. In addition, we also outsource certain of
our chemical products in our floor care line.







We have strategically opted to use third-party manufacturers for technically less complex
products and selected equipment in order to offer customers a broader range of solutions. We have benefited from this strategy with increased net sales and operating profit requiring minimal capital expenditures.

Outsourced products sales represented approximately 14% of Food Solutions net sales in 2011, and 17% in 2010 and 2009. Outsourced
products sales represented approximately 39% of Diversey’s net sales in the fourth quarter of 2011.

Total outsourced
products sales represented approximately 11% of total net sales in 2011, and 6% in 2010 and 2009.

Foreign Operations

We operate through our subsidiaries and have a presence in the United States and the 61 other countries listed below, enabling us to
distribute our products to our customers in over 175 countries.



AmericasEurope, Middle East and Africa
(“EMEA”)Asia PacificArgentinaAustriaNetherlandsAustraliaBarbadosBelgiumNigeriaChinaBrazilCzech RepublicNorwayIndiaCanadaDenmarkPolandIndonesiaChileEgyptPortugalJapanColombiaFinlandRomaniaMalaysiaCosta RicaFranceRussiaNew ZealandDominican RepublicGermanySlovakiaPakistanGuatemalaGreeceSloveniaPhilippinesJamaicaHungarySouth AfricaSingaporeMexicoIrelandSpainSouth KoreaPeruIsraelSwedenTaiwanUruguayItalySwitzerlandThailandVenezuelaKenyaTurkeyVietnamLuxembourgUkraineMoroccoUnited Arab EmiratesUnited Kingdom

In maintaining our foreign operations, we face risks inherent in these operations, such as currency
fluctuations, inflation and political instability. Information on currency exchange risk appears in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Other risks attendant to
our foreign operations are set forth in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Information on the impact of currency exchange on our
consolidated financial statements appears in Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Financial information showing net sales and total long-lived assets by geographic region
for each of the three years ended December 31, 2011 appears in Note 4, “Segments,” which information is incorporated herein by reference. We maintain programs to comply with the various laws, rules and regulations related to the
protection of the environment that we may be subject to in the many countries in which we operate. See “Environmental Matters,” below.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately
26,300 employees worldwide. Approximately 8,000 of these employees were in the U.S., with approximately 160 of these employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the approximately 18,300 employees who were outside the U.S.,
approximately 5,700 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Outside of the U.S., many of the covered employees are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is customary in the jurisdictions in which they are employed. We
believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.

Marketing, Distribution and Customers

At December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 8,200 sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world who sell
and market our products to and through a large number of distributors, fabricators, converters, e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms as well as directly to end-users such as food processors, foodservice
businesses, supermarket retailers, lodging, retail, pharmaceutical companies, health care facilities, medical device manufacturers, and other manufacturers.







To support our food and new ventures customers, we operate three
Packforum®innovation and learning centers that are located in the U.S., France, and China. At Packforum®, we assist customers in identifying the appropriate packaging materials and systems to meet their needs. We also
offer ideation services, educational seminars, employee training and customized graphic design services to our customers.

To
assist our marketing efforts for our protective packaging products and to provide specialized customer services, we operate 35 industrial Package Design and Development Centers (PDDC’s) worldwide within our facilities. These PDDC’s are
staffed with professional packaging engineers and outfitted with drop-testing and other equipment used to develop, test and validate cost-effective package designs to meet each protective packaging customer’s needs.

To support our equipment systems and the marketing of our totals systems solutions, we provide field technical services to our customers
worldwide. These services include system installation, integration and monitoring systems, repair and upgrade, operator training in the efficient use of our systems, qualification of various consumable and system combinations, and equipment layout
and design.

For our medical application customers, we offer two cleanroom contract assembly and packaging facilities in two
countries, as well as a packaging validation lab.

Our food packaging, food solutions and food and beverage applications are
largely sold direct, while our Protective Packaging and a large component of the remaining end-use applications in Diversey are sold through business supply distributors.

We have no material long-term contracts for the distribution of our products. In 2011, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales.

Seasonality

Historically, net sales in our food businesses have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end
of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events. Net sales in our Protective Packaging segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher during the “back-to-school” season in the mid-third
quarter and through the fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season. The Diversey segment’s net sales trend slightly lower in the first quarter, while second quarter sales represent a modest seasonal peak due to the European-based lodging
and food and beverage demand. On a consolidated basis, there is little seasonality in the business, with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. Our
consolidated net earnings typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality.

However, other factors may
outweigh the effects of seasonal changes in our net earnings results including, but not limited to, changes in raw materials and other costs, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, taxes and the timing and amount of acquisition synergies and
restructuring and other non-recurring charges.

Competition

Competition for most of our packaging products is based primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and price. Since competition is also based upon innovations in packaging technology, we
maintain ongoing research and development programs to enable us to maintain technological leadership. We invest approximately double the industry average on research and development as a percentage of net sales per year as compared with our
packaging peers. There are also other companies producing competing products that are well-established.

There are other
manufacturers of food packaging and food solutions products, some of which are companies offering similar products that operate across regions and others that operate in a single region or single country. Competing manufacturers produce a wide
variety of food packaging based on plastic, metals and other materials. We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of (i) flexible food packaging materials and related systems in the principal geographic areas in which we offer those
products, (ii) barrier trays for case-ready meat products in the principal geographic areas in which we offers those trays, and (iii) absorbent pads for food products to supermarkets and to meat and poultry processors in the United States.

Our protective packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other
packaging materials that customers use to provide protection against damage to their products during shipment and storage. Among the competitive materials are various forms of paper packaging products, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts,
strapping, envelopes, reinforced bags, boxes and other containers, and various corrugated materials, as well as various types of molded foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics, mechanical shock mounts, and wood blocking and bracing systems. We
believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of air cellular cushioning materials containing a barrier layer, inflatable packaging, suspension and retention packaging, shrink films for industrial and commercial applications, protective mailers,
polyethylene foam and polyurethane foam packaging systems in the principal geographic areas in which we sell these products.







Our Diversey solutions face a wide spectrum of competitors across each product category.
Competition is both global and regional in scope and includes numerous small, local competitors with limited product portfolios and geographic reach. We compete globally on premium product offerings and application expertise, innovative product and
dispensing equipment offerings, value-added solution delivery, and strong customer service and support. We differentiate our offerings from competitors by becoming the preferred partner to our customers, and by providing innovative,
industry-leading products to make their facilities safer and healthier for both maintenance staff and building occupants. We believe our integrated solutions approach, which includes the supply of machines, tools, chemicals, processes and training
to customers to drive productivity improvements, reduces risk of food safety events and improves infection control to reduce health care acquired infections, is a unique competitive strength. Additionally, the quality, ease of use and environmental
profile of our products are unique and have helped support long-standing, profitable relationships with many top customers.

Competition in specialty materials is focused on performance characteristics and price. Competition for most of our Medical Applications
products is based primarily on performance characteristics, service and price. Technical design capability is an additional competitive factor for the rigid packaging offered by the Medical Applications business.

Raw Materials and Sourcing

Suppliers provide raw materials, packaging components, equipment, accessories and contract manufactured goods. Our principal raw materials are polyolefin and other petrochemical-based resins and films,
caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, chelates, fragrances and paper and wood pulp products. These raw materials represent approximately one third of our consolidated cost of sales. We also purchase corrugated materials, cores for
rolls of products such as films and Bubble Wrap®brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, bag-in-the-box
containers, bottles, drums, pails, totes, aerosol cans, caps, triggers, valves, and blowing agents used in the expansion of foam packaging products. In addition, we offer a wide variety of specialized packaging equipment, some of which we
manufacture or have manufactured to our specifications, some of which we assemble and some of which we purchase from suppliers. Equipment and accessories include industrial and food packaging equipment, dilution-control warewashing and laundry
equipment, floor care machines as well as items used in the maintenance of a facility such as air care dispensers, floor care applicators, microfiber mops and cloths, buckets, carts and other cleaning tools and utensils.

The vast majority of the raw materials required for the manufacture of our products and all components related to our equipment and
accessories generally have been readily available on the open market, in most cases are available from several suppliers and are available in amounts sufficient to meet our manufacturing requirements. However, we have some sole-source suppliers, and
the lack of availability of supplies could have a material negative impact on our business. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery
capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers in the future. Due to by-product/co-product chemical relationships to the automotive and housing markets, several materials may become difficult to source. These factors could
lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers. We source some materials used in our packaging products from materials recycled in our manufacturing operations or obtained
through participation in recycling programs. Although we purchase some raw materials under long-term supply arrangements with third parties, these arrangements follow market forces and are in line with our overall global sourcing strategy, which
seeks to balance the cost of acquisition and availability of supply.

We have a centralized supply chain organization, which
includes the centralized management of procurement and logistic activities. Our objective is to leverage our global scale to achieve sourcing efficiencies and reduce our total delivered cost across all our regions. We do this while adhering to
strategic performance metrics and stringent sourcing practices.

Research and Development Activities

We maintain a continuing effort to develop new products and improve our existing products and processes, including developing new
packaging, non-packaging and chemical equipment and applications using our intellectual property. From time to time, we also acquire and commercialize new packaging and other products or techniques developed by others. Our research and development
projects rely on our technical capabilities in the areas of food science, materials science, chemistry, package design and equipment engineering. Our research and development expense was $106 million in 2011, $88 million in 2010 and
$81 million in 2009.

Our research and development activities are focused on end-use application. As a result, we
operate:



•two food science laboratories located in the U.S. and Italy;







•35 industrial Package Design and Development Centers worldwide, which are located within our Protective Packaging facilities. These centers develop,
test and validate cost-effective package designs;



•seven research and development laboratories focused on the development of cleaning and sanitation formulations, which are located in the U.S., Germany,
the Netherlands, Switzerland, India, Japan, and Brazil;



•nine equipment design centers in the U.S., Germany, Switzerland, the U.K., and Japan that focus on equipment and parts design and innovation to support
the development of comprehensive systems solutions;



•two medical rigids packaging design centers in the U.S. and the Netherlands; and



•one medical device packaging validation laboratory in the Netherlands.

Patents and Trademarks

We are the owner or licensee of an aggregate of
over 4,600 United States and foreign patents and patent applications, as well as an aggregate of over 9,000 United States and foreign trademark registrations and trademark applications that relate to many of our products, manufacturing processes and
equipment. We believe that our patents and trademarks collectively provide a competitive advantage. As such, each year we continue to file, in the aggregate, an average of 350 United States and foreign patent applications and 400 United States and
foreign trademark applications. None of our reportable segments is dependent upon any single patent or trademark alone. Rather, we believe that our success depends primarily on our sales and service, marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills
and on our ongoing research and development efforts. We believe that the expiration or unenforceability of any of our patents, applications, licenses or trademark registrations would not be material to our business or consolidated financial
condition.

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters

As a manufacturer, we are subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the countries, jurisdictions and localities in which we operate. These cover: the safe storage and use of raw materials and
production chemicals; the release of materials into the environment; standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. We review environmental, health and
safety laws and regulations pertaining to our operations and believe that compliance with current environmental and workplace health and safety laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures or consolidated financial
condition.

In some jurisdictions in which our packaging products are sold or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or
proposed that seek to regulate, among other things, minimum levels of recycled or reprocessed content and, more generally, the sale or disposal of packaging materials. In addition, customer demand continues to evolve for packaging materials that
incorporate renewable materials or that are otherwise viewed as being “environmentally sound.” Our new venture activities, described above, include the development of packaging products from renewable resources. We maintain programs
designed to comply with these laws and regulations, to monitor their evolution, and to meet this customer demand. One advantage inherent in many of our products is that thin, lightweight packaging solutions reduce waste and transportation costs in
comparison to available alternatives. We continue to evaluate and implement new technologies in this area as they become available.

Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regulate some of our products and require us to register certain products and comply with specified requirements. In the United States, we
must register our sanitizing and disinfecting products with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). We are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that regulate products manufactured and
sold by is for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and processed foods. In the United States, these requirements are general administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). To date, the cost of complying with
product registration requirements and FDA compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We also support our customers’ interests in eliminating waste by offering or participating in collection programs for some of our products or product packaging and for materials used in some of our
products. When possible, materials collected through these programs are reprocessed and either reused in our protective packaging operations or offered to other manufacturers for use in other products. In addition, gains that we have made in
internal recycling programs have allowed us to improve our net raw material yield, thus mitigating the impact of resin costs, while lowering solid waste disposal costs and controlling environmental liability risks associated with waste disposal.







Our emphasis on environmental, health and safety compliance provides us with risk reduction
opportunities and cost savings through asset protection and protection of employees, for which we are recognized as leaders in our industry. Our website,www.sealedair.com,contains additional detailed information about our corporate
citizenship initiatives.

Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.sealedair.com.We make available, free of charge, on or through our website atwww.sealedair.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after
we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.







