Item 1.Business

Sealed Air Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware, is a global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. We serve an array of end markets
including food and beverage processing, food service, retail, health care and industrial, commercial and consumer applications. We have widely recognized and inventive brands such as Bubble Wrap®brand cushioning, Cryovac®brand food packaging solutions and Diversey®brand cleaning and hygiene solutions. Our focus is on achieving net
sales growth through geographic expansion, new and expanded relationships with customers and demonstrating the strength of our sustainability value proposition.

Sealed Air was founded in 1960. We conduct substantially all of our business through three wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cryovac, Inc., Sealed Air Corporation (US) and Diversey, Inc. (“Diversey”).
Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when we refer to “Sealed Air,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our,” we are referring to Sealed Air Corporation and all of our subsidiaries, except
where the context indicates otherwise. Please refer to Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for financial information about the Company and its subsidiaries, which is incorporated herein by reference. Also, when
we cross reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.

We are a leading global innovator in the applications we serve and we differentiate ourselves through our:



•extensive global reach, by which we leverage our strengths across our operations in 62 countries to reach customers in over 175 countries;



•approximately 25,000 employees representing industry-leading expertise in packaging design, sales, service and engineering, hygiene and sanitation solutions, and in
food science;



•leading brands, such as our Bubble Wrap®brand cushioning, Jiffy®protective mailers, Instapak®foam-in-place systems, Cryovac®packaging technology, and
Diversey®and TASKI®brand cleaning and hygiene solutions;



•technology leadership with an emphasis on proprietary technologies;



•total systems offering that includes specialty materials and formulations, equipment systems and services; and



•solid cash flow generation from premium solutions to meet our customers’ needs, productivity improvements, working capital management and an asset-light business
model.

In 2012, our operations generated approximately 65% of our revenue from outside the United States, including
approximately 24% of our revenue from developing regions. These developing regions are Africa, Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Central and Eastern Europe, and Latin America.

Recent Events

Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

During 2012, we recorded non-cash charges for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets totaling $1.9 billion. This
impairment does not result in any future cash expenditures, impact liquidity, affect the ongoing business or financial performance of the Company, or impact compliance with our debt covenants. See Note 8, “Goodwill and Identifiable
Intangible Assets,” for further discussion of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets.

New Segment Structure

During the fourth quarter of 2012, we began to operate under three new business divisions for our segment reporting structure:
Food & Beverage, Institutional & Laundry and Protective Packaging, and an “Other” category, which includes our Medical Applications and New Venture Businesses. This new structure replaced our legacy seven business unit
structure. See “Segments” below for further details of our segment structure.

Issuance of 6.50% Senior Notes due 2020

On November 28, 2012, we completed an offering of $425 million aggregate principal amount of 6.50% senior notes due 2020
(the “2020 Notes”). We used the net proceeds of the offering, along with cash on hand, to purchase all of our outstanding $400 million 5.625% Senior Notes due 2013 (the “2013 Notes”) pursuant to a tender offer for an aggregate
purchase price of $421 million plus accrued and unpaid interest. See Note 12, “Debt and Credit Facilities” for further details of our senior notes activities.

Sale of Diversey G.K.

On November 14, 2012, we completed the sale Diversey
G.K. (“Diversey Japan”), an indirect subsidiary of Diversey, Inc. to an investment vehicle of The Carlyle Group (“Carlyle”) for gross proceeds of $323 million, including certain purchase price adjustments. After transaction costs
of $10 million, we used substantially all of the net proceeds of $313 million to prepay a portion of our term loans outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities. We recorded a pre-tax gain on the sale of $211 million ($179
million net of tax) which is included in net gain on sale of discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2012.

The operating results of Diversey Japan were reclassified to discontinued operations, net of tax, on the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the
assets and liabilities of the Diversey Japan operations were reclassified to assets and liabilities held for sale as of December 31, 2011. See Note 3, “Divestiture,” for details of our sale of Diversey Japan.

Amended Credit Facility

We
amended and refinanced our credit facility to (a) reduce Term Loan B interest rates, (b) gain additional flexibility on financial covenant, and (c) amend certain other terms. See Note 12, “Debt and Credit Facilities,” for further details
of our amended credit facility.

Quarterly Cash Dividends

We declared and paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.13 per common share on March 16, 2012 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 2, 2012, on June 15, 2012 to
stockholders of record at the close of business on June 1, 2012, on September 14, 2012 to stockholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2012 and on December 14, 2012 to stockholders of record at the close of
business on November 30, 2012. We used available cash totaling $101 million to pay these quarterly cash dividends.

On
February 14, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per common share payable on March 15, 2013 to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 1, 2013. The estimated amount of this
dividend payment is $25 million based on 195 million shares of our common stock issued and outstanding as of January 31, 2013.







Our Business Strategies

We seek to enhance our position as a leading global provider of innovative packaging and hygiene solutions that our customers use to improve safety, efficiency and sustainability within their operations
by focusing on six strategic priorities:



1.Maintaining and extending our technological leadership, expertise and our sustainability value proposition:

We continue to expand our presence in both existing and new end market applications by focusing on innovative products and solutions that
bring measurable, sustainable value to our customers while also meeting the demands for cost and performance. Our solutions enhance topline growth for customers; reduce costs through operational efficiency, water reduction and waste prevention; and
mitigate risks.

As part of our SmartLife™ initiative, we look beyond the single product or service to consider the value
chain where the solution is part of a broader lifecycle involving sourcing, distribution, use and even disposal. In addition, we will leverage the value our internal expertise brings to customers to generate new revenue streams and greater
profitability.



2.Better aligning ourselves with the right customers and markets:

As part of our ongoing business portfolio review, we are committed to identifying earlier and more definitively those customers and markets that offer us the best opportunity to deliver value added
solutions and services that are sufficiently differentiated and valued in the marketplace. In addition, we are committed to leveraging our strengths to enhance our position with our food and beverage customers. By doing so, we improve access to a
more secure food supply chain – one that is safer and more nutritious; more efficient and less wasteful.



3.Accelerating our penetration and rate of growth in developing regions:

With an international focus and extensive geographic footprint aligned to our greatest growth opportunities, we will combine our local market knowledge with our broad portfolio and strengths in innovation
and customer service to grow in developing regions. Urbanization, global trade, increased protein consumption and the ongoing conversion to safer and hygienically packaged foods and goods are key secular trends that underpin our confidence in our
ability to grow rapidly in these parts of the world.



4.Focusing on cash flow generation and improved return on assets:

We are focused on generating substantial operating cash flow from our existing business so that we can continue to invest in new products and technologies, deleverage our balance sheet, continue to pay a
dividend, and support growth in our share price. We believe our ongoing process of critically analyzing our business portfolio and reallocating technical, human, and capital resources to the most promising market sectors from those sectors that are
less strategic or have a lower level of financial performance, will enhance our free cash flow generation performance and result in a higher return on assets, thus improving shareholder value.



5.Optimizing our cost base and operations to maximize profitability:

The size and scale of our global operations affords us a continuing opportunity to derive greater supply chain efficiencies by leveraging our purchasing power, optimizing our manufacturing and logistics
footprint, improving our internal processes, and reducing complexity and cost. In addition to reducing the cost of our supply chain operations, we continue to focus on adapting the cost structure of our customer facing and back-office operations to
the appropriate level required to adequately support our external customer base and run the business effectively.



6.Developing our people:

We recognize that a core strength of our business is our people. Therefore, we will continue to invest in the development of key skills in
our diverse workforce while improving our ability to attract and retain new employees when we identify gaps in the current workforce.

Segments

During the fourth quarter of
2012, we began to operate under three new business divisions for our segment reporting structure. This new structure replaced our legacy seven business unit structure. Additionally, we report our regional results using the following regions: North
America, Europe, Latin America, AMAT (“Asia, Middle East, Africa and Turkey”) and Japan/Australia/New Zealand.

Our new segment
reporting structure, which we also refer to as “divisions,” reflects the way management now makes operating decisions and manages the growth and profitability of the business. It also corresponds with management’s current approach of
allocating resources and assessing the performance of our segments. We report our segment in accordance with the provision of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 280,
“Segment Reporting.”

Our new reportable segments are:

1. Food & Beverage;

2. Institutional & Laundry; and

3. Protective Packaging.

Our Other
category includes:

(a) Medical Applications; and

(b) New Ventures.

Additional financial information concerning our reportable segments
appears in Note 5, “Segments.”

Descriptions of the Reportable Segments and Other Category

Food & Beverage (“F&B”) Segment

The F&B division combines Sealed Air’s legacy Food Packaging and Food Solutions packaging businesses with Diversey’s legacy Food & Beverage hygiene solutions business. This division
focuses on providing processors, retailers and food service operators a broad range of integrated system solutions that improve the management of contamination







risk and facility hygiene during the food and beverage production process, extend product shelf life through packaging technologies, and improve merchandising, ease-of-use, and back-of-house
preparation processes. Our systems are designed to be turn-key and reduce customers’ total operating costs through improved operational efficiencies and reduced food waste, as well as lower water and energy use. As a result, processors are able
to produce and deliver their products more cost-effectively, safely, efficiently, and with greater confidence through their supply chain with a trusted partner.

The business largely serves perishable food and beverage processors predominately in fresh and processed meats, dairy (solids and liquids) and beverages worldwide, and maintains a leading position in the
applications it targets. Solutions are marketed under the Cryovac®and Diversey™ trademarks and under
sub-brands such as Cryovac Grip & Tear®, Cryovac Mirabella®, Simple Steps®, Secure Check, AquaCheck and EnergyCheck.

Packaging
solutions incorporate equipment systems that are frequently integrated into customers’ operations, consumables such as advanced flexible films, absorbent materials and trays, and a variety of pre- and post-sale services. Packaging equipment
systems can incorporate various options for loading, filling and dispensing, and will also accommodate certain retort and aseptic processing conditions. Equipment solutions supported include vacuum shrink bag systems, flow-vac, thermoforming, skin,
tray/lid and vertical pouch packaging systems. Services include graphic design, printing, training, field quality assurance and remote diagnostics. Facility hygiene solutions include clean-in-place and open plant systems that integrate cleaning
chemicals, lubricants, floor care equipment and cleaning tools. Also offered are a wide range of value-added services such as application and employee training and auditing of hygiene, water and energy management to improve the operational
efficiency of customers’ processes and their cleaning efficacy.

F&B focuses on providing comprehensive systems which protect our
customers’ products while adding value through increasing operational efficiency and reducing waste throughout the entire food and beverage supply chain. F&B will partner with customers to provide integrated packaging and hygiene solutions
that will consistently deliver food safety, shelf life extension, total cost optimization and innovative packaging formats which will enable our customers to enhance their brands in the marketplace.

Institutional & Laundry (“I&L”) Segment

The I&L division represents the broad offering of Diversey™-branded total integrated system solutions for facility hygiene, food safety and security in food service operations, and infection
control to customers worldwide. The division is focused on serving five key institutional and industrial sectors globally, which include: food service operators, lodging and laundry establishments, facility management and building service
contractors, retail outlets, and healthcare facilities.

I&L integrates cleaning chemicals, floor care equipment, cleaning tools, and a
wide range of value-added services based on extensive expertise, including application and employee training, auditing of hygiene and appearance, food safety services, and water and energy management to improve the operational efficiency of
customers’ processes and mitigate risk by improving their cleaning methods and reducing the overall environmental footprint of commercial and industrial facilities. These solutions address kitchen hygiene, floor care, housekeeping and restroom
care, and professional laundry. The range of Diversey-branded solutions includes fully integrated lines of products and dispensing systems for hard surface cleaning, disinfecting and sanitizing, hand washing, deodorizing, ware washing, hard surface
and carpeted floor cleaning systems, cleaning tools and utensils, and fabric care for professional laundry applications that are comprised of detergents, stain removers, bleaches and a broad range of dispensing equipment for process control and
management information systems.

I&L is focused on growth in developing regions, where increased urbanization and greater sanitation and
hygiene requirements provide growth opportunities with regional and multinational customers across its five targeted market sectors. The business is also focused on expanding its market presence by increasing the measurable value its extensive
expertise, integrated solutions and global footprint can provide for large corporate and international accounts.

Protective Packaging
Segment

This division combines Sealed Air’s legacy Protective Packaging, Shrink Packaging and the engineered
foam portion of the legacy Specialty Materials businesses to provide customers a broad portfolio of protective packaging systems designed for use across a range of applications and industries globally. This division provides customers with a
versatile range of protective packaging solutions to meet cushioning, void fill, positioning/block-and-bracing, surface protection, retail display, containment and dunnage needs. Solutions are marketed under industry-leading brands that include
Bubble Wrap®and Air Cap®air cellular packaging,
Cryovac®performance shrink films, Instapak®polyurethane foam packaging systems,
Jiffy®mailers, and Korrvu®suspension and retention packaging and sustainable offers in PakNatural®Loose fill and Restore™ Mushroom Molded Shapes packaging. Solutions are sold globally and supported by a network of 30 ASTM-approved protective packaging design
and testing centers, and one of the industry’s largest sales and service team.

Today, Protective Packaging solutions are largely sold
through business supply distribution that sells to business/industrial end-users representing over 400 SIC codes. Additionally, solutions are sold directly to fabricators, OEMs/contract manufacturers, e-commerce/fulfillment operations, and at retail
centers, where Protective Packaging offers select products for consumer use.

Protective Packaging is focused on sustainability, growth in
developing regions, advancements in material science, automation and user ease-of-use interface and features.

Other

We also focus on growth by utilizing our technologies in new market segments. This category includes our medical applications and new ventures businesses.

Medical Applications

The goal of our Medical Applications business is to provide solutions offering superior protection and reliability to the medical, pharmaceutical and medical device industries. We sell medical
applications products directly to medical device manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies and to the contract packaging firms that supply them. Medical Applications is focused on growth in the medical device and pharmaceutical solutions packaging
markets, utilizing the global brands of Nexcel®and Nelipak®. Our core product lines include customer designed rigid and flexible packaging materials for medical and drug delivery devices, specialty component films for ostomy
and colostomy bags and PVC free film to package pharmaceutical solutions.

New Ventures

Our New Ventures business includes several development and innovative projects. These include technologies and solutions sourced from renewable materials,
proprietary process technologies that have opportunity for application within our manufacturing processes and for future licensing, and equipment systems that offer an automated packaging service for high-volume fulfillment or pick-and-pack
operators.

Outsourced Products

In addition to net sales from products produced in our facilities, we also sell products fabricated by other manufacturers, which we refer to as “outsourced products.” We have strategically
opted to use third-party manufacturers for technically less complex products and selected equipment in order to offer customers a broader range of solutions. We have benefited from this strategy with increased net sales and operating profit
requiring minimal capital expenditures.

During 2012, total outsourced products sales represented approximately 21% of total net sales, of
which 34% related to our F&B division, 61% related to our I&L division and 5% related to our Protective Packaging division. During 2011, total outsourced products sales represented approximately 11% of total net sales in 2011, of which 47%
related to our F&B division, 39% related to our I&L division and 14% related to our Protective Packaging division.







Global Operations

We operate through our subsidiaries and have a presence in the United States and the 61 other countries listed below, enabling us to distribute our products to our customers in over 175
countries.



ArgentinaCzech RepublicIndiaMexicoPortugalSwitzerlandAustraliaDenmarkIndonesiaMoroccoRomaniaTaiwanAustriaDominican RepublicIrelandNetherlandsRussiaThailandBarbadosEgyptIsraelNew ZealandSingaporeTurkeyBelgiumFinlandItalyNigeriaSlovakiaUkraineBrazilFranceJamaicaNorwaySloveniaUnited Arab EmiratesCanadaGermanyJapanPakistanSouth AfricaUnited KingdomChileGreeceKenyaPeruSouth KoreaUruguayChinaGuatemalaLuxembourgPhilippinesSpainVenezuelaColombiaHungaryMalaysiaPolandSwedenVietnamCosta Rica

In maintaining our foreign operations, we face risks inherent in these operations, such as currency fluctuations,
inflation and political instability. Information on currency exchange risk appears in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Other risks attendant to our foreign
operations are set forth in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Information on the impact of currency exchange on our consolidated
financial statements appears in Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Financial information showing net sales and total long-lived assets by geographic region for each of
the three years ended December 31, 2012 appears in Note 4, “Segments,” which information is incorporated herein by reference. We maintain programs to comply with the various laws, rules and regulations related to the protection
of the environment that we may be subject to in the many countries in which we operate. See “Environmental Matters,” below.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012,
we had approximately 25,000 employees worldwide. Approximately 7,000 of these employees were in the U.S., with approximately 150 of these employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the approximately 18,000 employees who were
outside the U.S., approximately 5,800 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Outside of the U.S., many of the covered employees are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is customary in the jurisdictions in which they are
employed. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.

Marketing, Distribution and Customers

At December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 8,400 sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world who sell and market our
products to and through a large number of distributors, fabricators, converters, e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms as well as directly to end-users such as food processors, foodservice businesses, supermarket
retailers, lodging, retail, pharmaceutical companies, health care facilities, medical device manufacturers, and other manufacturers.

To support our F&B and New Ventures customers, we operate three
Packforum®innovation and learning centers that are located in the U.S., France, and China. At Packforum®Centers, we assist customers in identifying the appropriate packaging materials and systems to meet their needs. We
also offer ideation services, educational seminars, employee training and customized graphic design services to our customers.

To assist our
marketing efforts for our Protective Packaging products and to provide specialized customer services, we operate 30 industrial Package Design Centers (PDC’s) worldwide within our facilities. These PDC’s are staffed with professional
packaging engineers and outfitted with drop-testing and other equipment used to develop, test and validate cost-effective package designs to meet each protective packaging customer’s needs.

To support our equipment systems and the marketing of our totals systems solutions, we provide field technical services to our customers worldwide. These
services include system installation, integration and monitoring systems, repair and upgrade, operator training in the efficient use of our systems, qualification of various consumable and system combinations, and equipment layout and design.

For our medical application customers, we offer two cleanroom contract assembly and packaging facilities in two countries, as well as a
packaging validation lab.

Our F&B applications are largely sold direct, while our most of our Protective Packaging products and a portion
of our I&L products and solutions are sold through business supply distributors.

We have no material long-term contracts for the
distribution of our products. In 2012, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales.

Seasonality

Historically, net sales in
our F&B segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events. Net sales in our I&L segment have tended to be slightly lower
in the first quarter, second quarter sales represent a modest seasonal increase due to higher occupancy rates in European lodging, and the third and fourth quarters of the year are relatively the same level as the second quarter. Net sales in our
Protective Packaging segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season. On a consolidated basis, there is little seasonality in
the business, with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. Our consolidated net earnings typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality.
Cash flow from operations has tended to be lower in the first quarter and higher in the fourth quarter, reflecting seasonality of sales and working capital changes, including the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments.

Other factors may outweigh the effects of seasonal changes in our net earnings results including, but not limited to, changes in raw materials and other
costs, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, taxes and the timing and amount of acquisition synergies and restructuring and other non-recurring charges.







Competition

Competition for most of our packaging products is based primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and price. There are also other companies producing competing products that are
well-established. Since competition is also based upon innovations in packaging technology, we maintain ongoing research and development programs to enable us to maintain technological leadership. We invest approximately double the industry average
on research and development as a percentage of net sales per year as compared with our packaging peers.

There are other manufacturers of
F&B products, some of which are companies offering similar products that operate across regions and others that operate in a single region or single country. Competing manufacturers produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic,
metals and other materials. We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of (i) flexible food packaging materials and related systems in the principal geographic areas in which we offer those products, (ii) barrier trays for
case-ready meat products in the principal geographic areas in which we offers those trays, and (iii) absorbent pads for food products to supermarkets and to meat and poultry processors in the United States.

Our F&B hygiene solutions and I&L solutions face a wide spectrum of competitors across each product category. Competition is both global and
regional in scope and includes numerous small, local competitors with limited product portfolios and geographic reach. We compete globally on premium product offerings and application expertise, innovative product and dispensing equipment offerings,
value-added solution delivery, and strong customer service and support. We differentiate our offerings from competitors by becoming the preferred partner to our customers, and by providing innovative, industry-leading products to make
their facilities safer and healthier for both maintenance staff and building occupants. We believe our integrated solutions approach, which includes the supply of machines, tools, chemicals, processes and training to customers to drive productivity
improvements, reduces risk of food safety events and improve infection control to reduce health care acquired infections, is a unique competitive strength. Additionally, the quality, ease of use and environmental profile of our products are unique
and have helped support long-standing, profitable relationships with many top customers.

Our Protective Packaging products compete with
similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other packaging materials that customers use to provide protection against damage to their products during shipment and storage. Among the competitive materials are various forms of
paper packaging products, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, strapping, envelopes, reinforced bags, boxes and other containers, and various corrugated materials, as well as various types of molded foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics,
mechanical shock mounts, and wood blocking and bracing systems. We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of air cellular cushioning materials containing a barrier layer, inflatable packaging, suspension and retention packaging, shrink
films for industrial and commercial applications, protective mailers, polyethylene foam and polyurethane foam packaging systems in the principal geographic areas in which we sell these products.

Competition for most of our Medical Applications products is based primarily on performance characteristics, service and price. Technical design
capability is an additional competitive factor for the rigid packaging offered by the Medical Applications business.

Raw Materials and
Sourcing

Suppliers provide raw materials, packaging components, equipment, accessories and contract manufactured
goods. Our principal raw materials are polyolefin and other petrochemical-based resins and films, caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, chelates, fragrances and paper and wood pulp products. These raw materials represent
approximately 40% of our consolidated cost of sales. We also purchase corrugated materials, cores for rolls of products such as films and Bubble Wrap®brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, bag-in-the-box containers, bottles, drums, pails, totes, aerosol cans, caps, triggers, valves, and blowing agents used
in the expansion of foam packaging products. In addition, we offer a wide variety of specialized packaging equipment, some of which we manufacture or have manufactured to our specifications, some of which we assemble and some of which we purchase
from suppliers. Equipment and accessories include industrial and food packaging equipment, dilution-control warewashing and laundry equipment, floor care machines and items used in the maintenance of a facility such as air care dispensers, floor
care applicators, microfiber mops and cloths, buckets, carts and other cleaning tools and utensils.

The vast majority of the raw materials
required for the manufacture of our products and all components related to our equipment and accessories generally have been readily available on the open market, in most cases are available from several suppliers and are available in amounts
sufficient to meet our manufacturing requirements. However, we have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Natural
disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials.
Due to by-product/co-product chemical relationships to the automotive and housing markets, several materials may become difficult to source. These factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation
of raw materials by our suppliers. We source some materials used in our packaging products from materials recycled in our manufacturing operations or obtained through participation in recycling programs. Although we purchase some raw materials under
long-term supply arrangements with third parties, these arrangements follow market forces and are in line with our overall global sourcing strategy, which seeks to balance the cost of acquisition and availability of supply.

We have a centralized supply chain organization, which includes the centralized management of procurement and logistic activities. Our objective is to
leverage our global scale to achieve sourcing efficiencies and reduce our total delivered cost across all our regions. We do this while adhering to strategic performance metrics and stringent sourcing practices.

Research and Development Activities

We
maintain a continuing effort to develop new products and improve our existing products and processes, including developing new packaging, non-packaging and chemical equipment and applications using our intellectual property. From time to time, we
also acquire and commercialize new packaging and other products or techniques developed by others. Our research and development projects rely on our technical capabilities in the areas of food science, materials science, chemistry, package design
and equipment engineering. Our research and development expense was $135 million in 2012, $105 million in 2011 and $88 million in 2010.

Our research and development activities are focused on end-use application. As a result, we operate:



•two food science laboratories located in the U.S. and Italy;



•30 industrial Package Design Centers worldwide, which are located within our Protective Packaging facilities. These centers develop, test and validate cost-effective
package designs;



•six research and development laboratories focused on the development of cleaning and sanitation formulations, which are located in the U.S., Germany, the Netherlands,
Switzerland, India and Brazil;



•eight equipment design centers in the U.S., Germany, Switzerland and the U.K. that focus on equipment and parts design and innovation to support the development of
comprehensive systems solutions;



•two medical rigids packaging design centers in the U.S. and the Netherlands; and



•one medical device packaging validation laboratory in the Netherlands.







Patents and Trademarks

We are the owner or licensee of an aggregate of over 4,900 United States and foreign patents and patent applications, as well as an aggregate of over 9,300 United States and foreign trademark
registrations and trademark applications that relate to many of our products, manufacturing processes and equipment. We believe that our patents and trademarks collectively provide a competitive advantage. As such, each year we continue to file, in
the aggregate, an average of 320 United States and foreign patent applications and 325 United States and foreign trademark applications. None of our reportable segments is dependent upon any single patent or trademark alone. Rather, we believe that
our success depends primarily on our sales and service, marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills and on our ongoing research and development efforts. We believe that the expiration or unenforceability of any of our patents, applications,
licenses or trademark registrations would not be material to our business or consolidated financial condition.

Environmental, Health and
Safety Matters

As a manufacturer, we are subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the countries, jurisdictions and localities in
which we operate. These cover: the safe storage and use of raw materials and production chemicals; the release of materials into the environment; standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; or otherwise relate to
the protection of the environment. We review environmental, health and safety laws and regulations pertaining to our operations and believe that compliance with current environmental and workplace health and safety laws and regulations has not had a
material effect on our capital expenditures or consolidated financial condition.

In some jurisdictions in which our packaging products are
sold or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that seek to regulate, among other things, minimum levels of recycled or reprocessed content and, more generally, the sale or disposal of packaging materials. In addition, customer
demand continues to evolve for packaging materials that incorporate renewable materials or that are otherwise viewed as being “environmentally sound.” Our new venture activities, described above, include the development of packaging
products from renewable resources. We maintain programs designed to comply with these laws and regulations, to monitor their evolution, and to meet this customer demand. One advantage inherent in many of our products is that thin, lightweight
packaging solutions reduce waste and transportation costs in comparison to available alternatives. We continue to evaluate and implement new technologies in this area as they become available.

Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regulate some of our products and require us to register certain products and comply with
specified requirements. In the United States, we must register our sanitizing and disinfecting products with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). We are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and
regulations that regulate products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and processed foods. In the United States, these requirements are generally administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(“FDA”). To date, the cost of complying with product registration requirements and FDA compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We also support our customers’ interests in eliminating waste by offering or participating in collection programs for some of our products or
product packaging and for materials used in some of our products. When possible, materials collected through these programs are reprocessed and either reused in our protective packaging operations or offered to other manufacturers for use in other
products. In addition, gains that we have made in internal recycling programs have allowed us to improve our net raw material yield, thus mitigating the impact of resin costs, while lowering solid waste disposal costs and controlling environmental
liability risks associated with waste disposal.

Our emphasis on environmental, health and safety compliance provides us with risk reduction
opportunities and cost savings through asset protection and protection of employees. Our website,www.sealedair.com,contains additional detailed information about our corporate citizenship initiatives.

Available Information

Our Internet
address iswww.sealedair.com.We make available, free of charge, on or through our website atwww.sealedair.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments
to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission.

