Item 1.    Business

Beginning with the invention of Bubble Wrap® fifty years ago, Sealed Air Corporation has become a leading global innovator
and manufacturer of a wide range of packaging and performance-based materials and equipment systems that now serve an array of food, industrial, medical and consumer applications. Today, we maintain
business operations in 51 countries and sell products under widely recognized brands such as our Bubble Wrap® brand cushioning, Jiffy® protective mailers, Instapak®
foam-in-place systems and Cryovac® packaging technology. Our operations allows us to generate approximately 54% of our revenue from outside the United States and
approximately 16% of our revenue from developing regions. These developing regions are Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, Commonwealth of Independent States, Middle East, Africa, Southeast
Asia, China and India.

We
conduct substantially all of our business through two direct wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cryovac, Inc. and Sealed Air Corporation (US). These two subsidiaries, directly and
indirectly, own substantially all of the assets of the business and conduct operations themselves and through subsidiaries around the world. Throughout this report, when we refer to "Sealed Air," the
"Company," "we," "us" or "our," we are referring to Sealed Air Corporation and all of our subsidiaries, except where the context indicates otherwise.

Our Business Strategies

We are dedicated to key strategic priorities to develop our business and to build upon our strengths to enhance our leadership
position. These priorities are:

•

Innovation leadership with ongoing solution and service
development:We continue to expand our presence in both existing and new end market applications by focusing on innovative solutions
that bring measurable value to our customers and to end-consumers. Our distinctive systems approach accommodates ongoing innovation in differentiated materials, products and equipment
systems, as well as in integrated packaging solutions and other services.

•

Growth in developing regions:With an international focus
and extensive geographic footprint, we will leverage our broad portfolio and strengths in innovation to lead growth in developing regions, as well as complement our efforts to enhance our position in
more developed regions. Growing trends in urbanization, global trade, increased protein consumption and the conversion to safe and hygienic packaged goods allows all of our businesses to benefit from
developing region growth.

•

Focus on cash flow and return on assets:We focus on the
management of the business to generate substantial operating cash flow so that we may continue to spend on innovative research and development and to continue to invest in the business and its
strategies.

•

Optimize processes and operations to maximize
profitability:We are focused on deriving greater efficiencies by leveraging our global supply chain structure by maximizing scale and
collaboration and minimizing complexity and costs.

•

Sustainability:We are dedicated to responsible management
of our business, minimizing risks and being good stewards of the environment and the communities we live in and serve, while maximizing benefits and responsiveness to our stakeholders. We focus on
source reduction, recyclability and the growing use of renewable content, as well as efficient use of energy and other resources.

•

Develop our people:A core strength is our people. We will
grow our business through ongoing development of key skills in a diverse workforce that operates consistent with our code of conduct.

Segments

We report our business publicly in four parts: three reportable segments and an "Other" category.

Our
reportable segments are:

1.Food
Packaging;2.Food
Solutions; and3.Protective
Packaging, which includes Shrink Packaging.









Our
Other category includes:

(a)Specialty
Materials;(b)Medical
Applications; and(c)New
Ventures.

Information
concerning our reportable segments, including net sales, depreciation and amortization, operating profit and assets, appears in Note 3, "Segments," of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Descriptions of the Reportable Segments and Other Category

We offer a broad range of solutions across leading brands worldwide. Approximately 60% of our total net sales in each of the fiscal
years 2009, 2008 and 2007 were in our food businesses, while approximately 30% of our total net sales were in our industrial packaging businesses. The balance of our net sales has been in our
specialty materials and medical applications business.

Food Packaging

In this segment, we focus on the automated packaging of perishable foods. Our products are primarily focused on fresh and processed
meats and cheeses that are sold primarily to food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers and foodservice businesses. We market these products mostly under the Cryovac® trademark.
This segment's growth opportunities are targeted toward developments in technologies that enable our customers to package and ship their meat and cheese products effectively through their supply
chain. These technologies focus on automation and packaging integration solutions, innovation in material science and expansion of the sale of our products into developing regions, where consumers
continue to expand their protein consumption and are transitioning to packaged products.

Our
Food Packaging segment offerings include:

•shrink bags to vacuum package many fresh food products, including beef, lamb, pork, poultry and seafood, as well as cheese
and smoked and processed meats;•packaging materials for cook-in applications, predominately for the deli and foodservice businesses;•a wide range of laminated and coextruded rollstock packaging materials utilized in thermoforming and form, fill and seal
applications, which provide an effective packaging alternative for a variety of fresh meats, smoked and processed meats, seafood, poultry and cheese applications;•packaging trays; and•associated packaging equipment and systems, including bag loaders, dispensers and vacuum chamber systems.

Some
of our more recent new product offerings in this segment are:

•Oven Ease™ ovenable bag for bone-in or boneless meat and poultry products;•Cryovac Roboloader® system, which combines a product-detecting conveyor, which measures a product's width,
and, using a robotic arm, selects and opens the corresponding bag for the product's size from one of up to six dispensing units;•PakFormance™ integrated packaging solutions—systems combining hardware, software, equipment and
services that give food processors control and oversight of the food packaging process;•Multi-Seal® package, an easy open and reclosable deli package;•Freshness Plus™ oxygen scavenging systems and odor scavenging materials;•Cryovac Grip & Tear® bags, easy-open end-seal bags for fresh meats, poultry,
and smoked and processed products;









•Cryovac® BL145 and BL175 automatic loaders for roll-serrated bags; and•Cryovac® CNP310 heavy bags for post-packaging pasteurization of smoked and processed products.

Food Solutions

In this segment, we target advancements in food packaging technologies that provide consumers convenient access to fresh, consistently
prepared, high-quality meals, either from foodservice outlets or from expanding retail cases at grocery stores. We sell the products in this reportable segment primarily to food
processors, distributors, supermarket retailers and foodservice businesses. We sell products in this segment under the Cryovac®, Simple Steps®, Darfresh®, and other
trademarks. This segment's growth strategy is focused on developing convenience-oriented solutions through material science and innovative end applications that serve both consumers and the commercial
chef.

Our
Food Solutions segment offerings include:

•case-ready packaging offerings that are utilized in the centralized packaging of various proteins, including
beef, lamb, poultry, smoked and processed meats, seafood and cheese, for retail sale at the consumer level;•ready meals packaging, including our Simple Steps® package, a microwavable package designed with vacuum skin
packaging technology and a unique self-venting feature, and also our flex-tray-flex package, which is an oven-compatible package that utilizes
skin-pack technology;•vertical pouch packaging for packaging flowable food products, including soups and sauces, salads, meats, toppings and
syrups, including film and filling equipment systems for products utilizing hot and ambient, retort and aseptic processing methods;•packaging solutions for produce, bakery goods and pizza, including our Cryovac PizzaFresh® offering;•Entapack® intermediate bulk container products, which are used in the food, beverage and industrial processing
industries for storage and transportation of primarily liquid material;•foam and solid plastic trays and containers that customers use to package a wide variety of food products;•absorbent products used for food packaging, such as our Dri-Loc® absorbent pads;
and•related packaging equipment systems, including vertical pouch packaging systems and vacuum chamber systems.

Some
of our more recent new product offerings in this segment are:

•Cryovac® Deli-Snap™, a high-barrier lidstock,
snap-on-lidded tray for processed deli-meats and cheeses; and•Cryovac® OFT ovenable foam trays for pizza.

Outsourced Products

Included in this segment are products produced in our facilities as well as products fabricated by other manufacturers, which we refer
to as outsourced products. Outsourced products include, among others, foam and solid plastic trays and containers fabricated primarily in North America and Europe and selected equipment. We have
strategically opted to use third-party manufacturers for technically less complex products in order to offer customers a broader range of solutions. We have benefited from this strategy with increased
net sales and operating profit requiring minimal capital expenditures. See "Outsourced Products," included in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations," for further information.

Protective Packaging

This segment includes our air cellular packaging materials, the product on which we were founded fifty years ago. This segment
comprises our core protective packaging technologies and solutions aimed at traditional industrial applications as well as consumer-oriented packaging solutions. We aggregate our











protective
packaging products and shrink packaging products into our Protective Packaging segment for reporting purposes. We sell products in this segment primarily to distributors and manufacturers
in a wide variety of industries as well as to retailers and to e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms. This segment's growth is focused on providing a broader range of protective
packaging products and solutions worldwide by focusing on advancements in material science, automation, and the development of reliable customer equipment. We target markets that serve both developed
and developing regions.

Our
Protective Packaging segment offerings include:

•

Bubble Wrap® brand and AirCap® brand air cellular packaging materials, which employ a "barrier
layer" that retains air for longer lasting protection, forming a pneumatic cushion to protect products from damage through shock or vibration during shipment;

•

Cryovac®, Opti® and CorTuff® performance shrink films for product display and
merchandising applications, which customers use to "shrink-wrap" a wide assortment of industrial and consumer products as well as produce;

•

Shanklin® and Opti® shrink packaging equipment systems;

•

Instapak® polyurethane foam packaging systems, which consist of proprietary blends of polyurethane chemicals,
high performance polyolefin films and specially designed dispensing equipment that provide protective packaging for a wide variety of applications;

•

Jiffy® mailers and bags, including lightweight, tear-resistant mailers lined with air cellular
cushioning material that are marketed under the Jiffylite® and TuffGard® trademarks, Jiffy® padded mailers made from recycled kraft paper padded with macerated
recycled newspaper, and Jiffy® ShurTuff® bags composed of multi-layered polyolefin film;

•

PackTiger® paper cushioning system, a versatile high-speed paper packaging solution that includes
both recycled paper and automated dispensing equipment;

•

Kushion Kraft®, Custom Wrap™, Jiffy Packer® and Void Kraft™ paper
packaging products;

•

Korrvu® suspension and retention packaging;

•

inflatable packaging systems, including our Fill-Air® inflatable packaging system, which converts
rolls of polyethylene film into continuous perforated chains of air-filled cushions, our Fill-Air® RF system, which consists of a compact, portable inflator and
self-sealing inflatable plastic bags, which is also available in a fully automated model, and our NewAir I.B.® 200 and high speed 600 packaging systems, which provide
on-site, on-demand Barrier Bubble® cushioning material;

•

PriorityPak® system, a high-speed product containment and protective packaging solution with
advanced sensor technology, used for mail-order and internet fulfillment applications;

•

systems that convert some of our packaging materials, such as air cellular cushioning materials, thin polyethylene foam
and paper, into sheets of a pre-selected size and quantity; and

•

FillTeck™ line of equipment and materials marketed by us for applications requiring on-site
production of high performance, air-filled, quilted cushioning material.

Some
of our more recent new product offerings in this segment are:

•Cryovac® CT-301™ ultra thin high performance shrink film;•Instapak Complete™ foam-in-bag packaging system for the production of continuous foam
tubes;•Fill-Air® Cyclone™ inflatable packaging system, which produces high volume void fill
packaging materials from a compact footprint;•Rapid Fill® Automated Void Fill System, which offers automated void detection and inflation inside the carton;•PackTiger Hybrid™ paper packaging system, which offers selectable void-fill or cushioning
material;•FasFil™ packaging system, which creates void-fill pads from 100% recycled paper;









•NewAir I.B.® Express inflatable cushioning system for Barrier Bubble® material;
and•Yesterday's News® padded mailers made with recycled paper fibers.

Other

We also focus on growth by utilizing our technologies in new market segments. This category includes specialty materials for
non-packaging applications and medical products and applications. Additionally, this category focuses on new ventures, such as products made from renewable materials.

Specialty Materials

Our specialty materials operations seek to expand our product portfolio and core competencies into specialized and
non-packaging applications and new market segments. We sell specialty materials products primarily to fabricators and manufacturers, encompassing a wide array of businesses and end uses.

Our
specialty materials offerings include:

•Cellu-Cushion®, Stratocell® and Ethafoam® family of foams, which are available in a
variety of densities and with a wide range of performance characteristics, including anti-static, acoustic, formable, moisture barrier, gas barrier, printable, shrinkable and adhesive
applications;•foams, films and composites for non-packaging markets, including transportation, construction, sports and
leisure, and personal care;•temperature controlled supply chain products, including our TurboTag® system, a temperature monitoring product
for pharmaceutical, biological and food industry customers; and•super-insulation products utilizing thermal insulation in the form of vacuum insulated panels that provide energy
efficiency for specialized packaging, such as aerospace, pharmaceutical and biological applications, and non-packaging applications.

One
of our newest products in this category is our Ethafoam® HRC (High Recycled Content) polyethylene foam, containing a minimum of 65% pre-consumer recycled
content.

Medical Applications

The goal of our medical applications business is to provide solutions offering superior protection and reliability to the medical,
pharmaceutical and medical device industries. We sell medical applications products directly to medical device manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies and to the contract packaging firms that
supply them.

Our
medical applications offerings include:

•flexible films, tubing and connectors for use in the manufacture of bags and pouches for a wide variety of medical
applications including ostomy, I-V and solution drug therapies;•custom designed, rigid thermoformed packaging materials for medical devices and technical products;
and•equipment to seal thermoformed trays to lidding materials.New Ventures

Our new ventures businesses include products sourced from renewable materials. Through our Biosphere venture, we offer an expanding
line of renewable food and industrial packaging products, including Renew-a-Pak® biodegradable trays and pans for bakeries.









Foreign Operations

We operate through our subsidiaries in the United States and in the 50 other countries listed below, and our products are
distributed in these countries as well as in other parts of the world.

AmericasEurope, Middle East and AfricaAsia-PacificArgentinaBelgiumNorwayAustraliaBrazilCzech RepublicPolandChinaCanadaDenmarkPortugalIndiaChileFinlandRomaniaIndonesiaColombiaFranceRussiaJapanCosta RicaGermanySouth AfricaMalaysiaEcuadorGreeceSpainNew ZealandGuatemalaHungarySwedenPhilippinesMexicoIrelandSwitzerlandSingaporePeruIsraelTurkeySouth KoreaUruguayItalyUkraineTaiwanVenezuelaLuxembourgUnited KingdomThailandNetherlandsVietnam

In
maintaining our foreign operations, we face risks inherent in these operations, such as currency fluctuations. Information on currency exchange risk appears in Part II,
Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Other risks attendant to our foreign operations are set forth in
Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Financial information showing net sales and total long-lived assets by geographic region for each of
the three years ended December 31, 2009 appears in Note 3, "Segments," of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. We maintain programs to comply with the various laws, rules and regulations related to the protection of the
environment that we may be subject to in the many countries in which we operate. See "Environmental Matters," below.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 16,200 employees worldwide. Approximately 6,800 of these employees were in the
U.S., with approximately 100 of these employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the approximately 9,400 employees who were outside the U.S., approximately 6,200 were covered by
collective bargaining agreements. Outside of the U.S., many of the covered employees are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is customary in the jurisdictions in which they are
employed. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.

Marketing, Distribution and Customers

At December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 2,600 sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world who
sell and market our products to and through a large number of distributors, fabricators, converters, e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms as well as
directly to end-users such as food processors, food service businesses, supermarket retailers, pharmaceutical companies, medical device manufacturers and other manufacturers.

To
support our food packaging, food solutions and new ventures customers, we operate two food science laboratories and three Packforum® innovation and learning centers across
three regions that assist customers in identifying the appropriate packaging materials and systems to meet their needs. We also offer ideation services and customized graphic design services to our
customers.

To
assist our marketing efforts for our protective packaging products and to provide specialized customer services, we operate 33 package design and development laboratories worldwide
within our facilities. These laboratories are staffed by professional packaging engineers and equipped with drop-testing and other equipment used to develop and test
cost-effective package designs to meet the particular protective packaging requirements of each customer.









In support of many of our businesses, we operate five equipment design centers in four countries that focus on equipment and parts design and innovation. We also
provide field technical services to our customers worldwide. These services include system installation, integration and monitoring systems, repair and upgrade, operator training in the efficient use
of packaging systems, qualification of various consumable and system combinations, and packaging line layout and design.

We
have no material long-term contracts for the distribution of our products. In 2009, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for 10% or more of our
consolidated net sales.

Seasonality

We do not consider seasonality to be material to our consolidated net sales or to any reportable business segment net sales.
Historically, net sales in our food businesses have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday
events. Our Protective Packaging segment has tended to also be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher during the "back-to-school" season in the mid-third
quarter and through the fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season.

Competition

Competition for most of our packaging products is based primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and price. Since
competition is also based upon innovations in packaging technology, we maintain ongoing research and development programs to enable us to maintain technological leadership. We invest approximately
double the industry average on research and development as a percentage of net sales per year. There are also other companies producing competing products that are well established.

There
are other manufacturers of food packaging and food solutions products, some of which are companies offering similar products that operate across regions and others that operate in
a single region or single country. Competing manufacturers produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic, metals and other materials. We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of
(i) flexible food packaging materials and related systems in the principal geographic areas in which we offer those products, (ii) barrier trays for case-ready meat products
in the principal geographic areas in which we offers those trays, and (iii) absorbent pads for food products to supermarkets and to meat and poultry processors in the United States.

Our
protective packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other packaging materials that customers use to provide protection
against damage to their products during shipment and storage. Among the competitive materials are various forms of paper packaging products, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, strapping,
envelopes, reinforced bags, boxes and other containers, and various corrugated materials, as well as various types of molded foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics, mechanical shock mounts, and wood
blocking and bracing systems. We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of air cellular cushioning materials containing a barrier layer, inflatable packaging, suspension and retention
packaging, shrink films for industrial and commercial applications, protective mailers, polyethylene foam and polyurethane foam packaging systems in the principal geographic areas in which we sell
these products.

Competition
in specialty materials is focused on performance characteristics and price. Competition for most of our medical applications products is based primarily on performance
characteristics, service and price. Technical design capability is an additional competitive factor for the rigid packaging offered by the medical applications business.

Raw Materials

The principal raw materials used in each of our reportable business segments are polyolefin and other petrochemical-based resins and
films, and paper and wood pulp products. We also purchase corrugated materials, cores for rolls of products such as films and Bubble Wrap® brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, and
blowing agents used in the expansion of foam packaging products. In addition, we offer a wide variety of specialized packaging equipment, some of which we manufacture or have manufactured to our
specifications, some of which we assemble and some of which we purchase from other suppliers.









The
raw materials for our products generally have been readily available on the open market and in most cases are available from several suppliers. However, we have some
sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material negative impact on our business. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political
instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers in the future. These factors could lead to
increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers. We source some materials used in our packaging products from materials recycled in our
manufacturing operations or obtained through participation in recycling programs.

Sourcing

We have a centralized supply chain organization, which includes centralized management of procurement and logistics. Our objective is
to leverage our global scale to achieve sourcing efficiencies and reduce our total delivered cost across all our regions. We do this while adhering to strategic performance metrics and stringent
sourcing practices.

Research and Development Activities

We maintain a continuing effort to develop new products and to improve our existing products and processes, including developing new
packaging and non-packaging applications for our products. From time to time, we also acquire and commercialize new packaging and other products or techniques developed by others. Our
research and development projects rely on our technical capabilities in the areas of food science, materials science, package design and equipment engineering. We spent $81.2 million in 2009,
$85.6 million in 2008 and $90.8 million in 2007 on research and development.

Patents and Trademarks

We are the owner or licensee of an aggregate of over 3,000 United States and foreign patents and patent applications, as well as an
aggregate of over 3,000 United States and foreign trademark registrations and trademark applications that relate to many of our products, manufacturing processes and equipment. We believe that our
patents and trademarks collectively provide a competitive advantage. As such, each year we continue to file, in the aggregate an average of 200 United States and
foreign patent applications and 250 United States and foreign trademark applications. None of our reportable segments is dependent upon any single patent or trademark alone. Rather, we believe that
our success depends primarily on our sales and service, marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills and on our ongoing research and development efforts. We believe that the expiration or
unenforceability of any of our patents, applications, licenses or trademark registrations would not be material to our business or consolidated financial position.

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters

As a manufacturer, we are subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the countries, jurisdictions and localities in which we
operate covering the safe storage and use of raw materials and production chemicals and the release of materials into the environment, regarding standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of
solid and hazardous wastes or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. We review environmental, health and safety laws and regulations pertaining to our operations and believe that
compliance with current environmental and workplace health and safety laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures or consolidated financial position.

In
some jurisdictions in which our packaging products are sold or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that seek to regulate, among other things, recycled or
reprocessed content and sale or disposal of packaging materials. In addition, customer demand continues to evolve for packaging materials that incorporate renewable materials or that are otherwise
viewed as being "environmentally sound." Our new ventures activities, described above, emphasize the development of packaging products from renewable resources. We maintain programs designed to comply
with these laws and regulations, to monitor their evolution, and to meet this customer demand. One advantage inherent in many of our products is that thin, lightweight packaging solutions reduce waste
and transportation costs in comparison to available alternatives. We continue to evaluate and implement new technologies in this area as they become available.

We
also support our customers' interests in eliminating waste by offering or participating in collection programs for some of our products or product packaging and for materials used in
some of our products.











When
possible, materials collected through these programs are reprocessed and either reused in our protective packaging operations or offered to other manufacturers for use in other products. In
addition, gains that we have made in internal recycling programs have allowed us to improve our net raw material yield, thus mitigating the impact of resin costs, while lowering solid waste disposal
costs and controlling waste disposal environmental liability risks.

Our
emphasis on environmental, health and safety compliance provides us with risk reduction opportunities and cost savings through asset protection and protection of employees, for which
we are recognized as leaders in our industry. Our website,www.sealedair.com/citizenship, contains additional detailed information about our corporate
citizenship initiatives.

Available Information

Our Internet address iswww.sealedair.com.We make available, free of charge, on or
through our web site atwww.sealedair.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act,
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC.

