ITEM 1.Business

Overview

Broadridge is a leading global provider of investor communications and technology-driven solutions to banks, broker-dealers, mutual funds
and corporate issuers. Our systems and services include investor communication solutions, and securities processing and business process outsourcing services. In short, we provide the infrastructure that helps the financial services industry
operate. With over 50 years of experience, we provide financial services firms with advanced, dependable, scalable and cost-effective integrated systems. Our systems help reduce the need for clients to make significant capital investments in
operations infrastructure, thereby allowing them to increase their focus on core business activities.

We deliver a broad
range of solutions that help our clients better serve their retail and institutional customers across the entire investment lifecycle, including pre-trade, trade, and post-trade processing. We serve a large and diverse client base across our four
businesses: Bank/Broker-Dealer Investor Communication Solutions, Corporate Issuer Solutions, Mutual Fund and Retirement Solutions, and Global Technology and Operations Solutions. Our businesses operate in two business segments: Investor
Communication Solutions and Securities Processing Solutions.

Investor Communication Solutions

®



•Bank/Broker-Dealer Investor Communication Solutions: Broadridge is a leader in corporate governance activities, processing over 80% of the
outstanding shares in the United States (“U.S.”), and over 75% of the shares voted outside the U.S. in the performance of our proxy services. We process over two billion investor communications annually through a combination of physical
and electronic channels.



•Corporate Issuer Solutions: Broadridge serves corporate issuers with a variety of their needs including proxy and transfer agency services.



•Mutual Fund and Retirement Solutions: Broadridge is the leading independent provider of retirement fund processing and provides unique
data-driven market intelligence, specialized marketing communications and fund governance.

Securities Processing
Solutions

Our Global Technology and Operations Solutions business operates within this segment. We offer a suite of
advanced computerized real-time transaction processing services that automate the securities transaction lifecycle, from desktop productivity tools, data aggregation, performance reporting, and portfolio management to order capture and execution,
trade confirmation, settlement, and accounting. Our services help financial







institutions efficiently and cost-effectively consolidate their books and records, gather and service assets under management, focus on their core businesses, and manage risk. With multi-currency
capabilities, our Global Processing Solution supports real-time global trading of equity, option, mutual fund, and fixed income securities in established and emerging markets. In addition, our business process outsourcing services allow
broker-dealers to outsource certain administrative functions relating to clearing and settlement, from order entry to trade matching and settlement, while maintaining their ability to finance and capitalize their businesses.



•Global Technology and Operations Solutions: Broadridge is the leading back- and middle-office securities processing platform for North American
and global broker-dealers. Provided on an application service provider (“ASP”) basis, Broadridge’s platform is a global market solution, clearing and settling in over 70 countries. Broadridge processes on average over $5
trillion in equity and fixed income trades per day of U.S. and Canadian securities, including approximately 60% of U.S. fixed income trades.

History and Development of Our Company

We are the former Brokerage
Services division of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (“ADP”). Broadridge was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of ADP on March 29, 2007 in anticipation of our spin-off from ADP. We spun off from ADP and began
operating as an independent public company on March 30, 2007. Our company has over 50 years of history in providing innovative solutions to financial services firms and publicly-held companies. In 1962, the Brokerage Services division of ADP
opened for business with one client, processing an average of 300 trades per night. In 1979, we expanded our U.S.-based securities processing solutions to process Canadian securities.

We made significant additions to our Securities Processing Solutions business through two key acquisitions in the mid-1990s. In 1995, we
acquired a London-based provider of multi-currency clearance and settlement services, to become a global supplier of transaction processing services. In 1996, we acquired a provider of institutional fixed income transaction processing systems.

We began offering our proxy services in 1989. The proxy services business, which started what has become our Investor
Communication Solutions business, leveraged the information processing systems and infrastructure of our Securities Processing Solutions business. Our proxy services offering attracted 31 major clients in its first year of operations. In 1992, we
acquired The Independent Election Corporation of America which further increased our proxy services capabilities. By 1999, we were handling over 90% of the investor communication distributions for securities held of record by banks and
broker-dealers in the U.S.—from proxy statements to annual reports. During the 1990s, we expanded our proxy services business to serve security owners of Canadian and United Kingdom issuers and we began offering a complete outsourced solution
for international proxies.

In 1994, we began offering ProxyEdge, our innovative electronic proxy
delivery and voting solution for institutional investors that helps ensure the participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. In 1998, having previously provided print and distribution services as an accommodation to our securities
processing and proxy clients, we decided to focus on account statement and reporting services. In 2001, we developed and released PostEdge®to meet the need for electronic distribution and archiving of all investor communications. In 2010, we entered the transfer agency business through an acquisition of
a provider of registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services.

In fiscal year 2011, we acquired three businesses in the
Investor Communication Solutions segment. In August 2010, we acquired NewRiver, Inc. (“NewRiver”), a leader in mutual fund electronic investor disclosure solutions. In December 2010, we acquired Forefield, Inc. (“Forefield”), a
leading provider of real-time sales, education and client communication solutions for financial institutions and their advisors. In January 2011, we acquired Matrix Financial Solutions, Inc. (“Matrix”). Matrix is a provider of mutual fund
processing services for third party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals. Matrix’s back-office, trust, custody, trading and mutual fund settlement services are integrated into our product suite thereby
strengthening Broadridge’s role as a provider of data processing and distribution channel solutions to the mutual fund industry.







The Company has also acquired businesses in the Securities Processing Solutions segment. In
fiscal year 2010, the Company acquired City Networks Ltd, a leading software and services provider of reconciliation, multi-asset process automation and operational risk management solutions to the global financial services industry. In fiscal year
2012, the Company acquired Paladyne Systems, Inc. (“Paladyne”), now known as Broadridge Investment Management, Reference Data and Risk Solutions, a provider of buy-side technology solutions for the global investment management industry.

In fiscal year 2014, we completed the acquisitions of two businesses in the Investor Communication Solutions segment. In July
2013, we acquired Bonaire Software Solutions, LLC (“Bonaire”), a leading provider of fee calculation, billing, and revenue and expense management solutions for asset managers including institutional asset managers, wealth managers, mutual
funds, bank trusts, hedge funds and capital markets firms. In February 2014, we acquired Emerald Connect, LLC (“Emerald”), a leading provider of websites and related communications solutions for financial advisors.

The Broadridge Business

Investor
Communication Solutions

A majority of publicly-traded shares are not registered in companies’ records in the
names of their ultimate beneficial owners. Instead, a substantial majority of all public companies’ shares are held in “street name,” meaning that they are held of record by broker-dealers or banks through their depositories. Most
street name shares are registered in the name “Cede & Co.,” the name used by The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (“DTCC”), which holds shares on behalf of its participant broker-dealers and banks. These
participant broker-dealers and banks (which are known as nominees because they hold securities in name only) in turn hold the shares on behalf of their clients, the individual beneficial owners. Nominees, upon request, are required to provide
companies with lists of beneficial owners who do not object to having their names, addresses, and share holdings supplied to companies, so called “non-objecting beneficial owners” (or “NOBOs”). Objecting beneficial owners (or
“OBOs”) may be contacted directly only by the broker-dealer or bank.

Because DTCC’s role is only that of
custodian, a number of mechanisms have been developed in order to pass the legal rights it holds as the record owner (such as the right to vote) to the beneficial owners. The first step in passing voting rights down the chain is the “omnibus
proxy,” which DTCC executes to transfer its voting rights to its participant nominees.

Under applicable rules, nominees
must deliver proxy materials to beneficial owners and request voting instructions. Nominees are often prohibited by applicable New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), or other self-regulatory organization (“SRO”) rules, or by express
agreements with their customers, from voting the securities held in their customers’ accounts on certain types of proposals in the absence of receiving such customers’ voting instructions.

A large number of nominees have contracted out the administrative processes of distributing proxy materials and tabulating voting
instructions to us. Nominees accomplish this by transferring to us via powers of attorney the authority to execute a proxy, which authority they receive from DTCC (via omnibus proxy). We then distribute the proxy materials and voting instruction
forms (known as “VIFs”) to beneficial owners.

The Securities and Exchange Commission’s (the “SEC”)
rules require public companies to reimburse nominees for the expense of distributing stockholder communications to beneficial owners of securities held in street name. The reimbursement rates are set forth in the rules of SROs, including the NYSE.
We act as a billing and collection agent for many nominees with respect to this reimbursement. We bill public companies on behalf of the nominees, collect the fee and remit to the nominee any difference between the fee that the nominee is entitled
to collect and the amount that the nominee has agreed to pay us for our services. In addition, the NYSE rules establish fees specifically for the services provided by intermediaries in the proxy process such as Broadridge.







In fiscal year 2014, the SEC approved the proxy distribution fee changes proposed by the
NYSE in May 2012. The fee changes went into effect for shareholder meetings with record dates on or after January 1, 2014, and we have implemented the approved changes.

We also compile NOBO lists on behalf of nominees in response to requests from issuers. The preparation of NOBO lists is subject to reimbursement by the securities issuers requesting such lists to the
broker-dealers. The reimbursement rates are based on the number of NOBOs on the list produced pursuant to NYSE or other SRO rules. Such rules also provide for certain fees to be paid to third party intermediaries who compile such NOBO lists. We
function as such an intermediary in the NOBO process.

We also provide proxy distribution, vote tabulation, and various
additional investor communication tools and services to institutional investors, corporate issuers, investment companies and financial advisors.

The services we provide in this segment represented approximately 73%, 73%, and 71% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. These services include the following:

Bank and Brokerage Offerings.We handle the entire proxy materials distribution and voting process for our bank
and broker-dealer clients on-line and in real-time, from coordination with third party entities to ordering, inventory maintenance, mailing, tracking and vote tabulation. We offer electronic proxy delivery services for the electronic delivery of
proxy materials to investors and collection of consents; maintenance of a database that contains the delivery method preferences of our clients’ customers; posting of documents on the Internet; e-mail notification to investors notifying them
that proxy materials are available; and proxy voting over the Internet, mobile devices and tablets. We also have the ability to combine stockholder communications for multiple stockholders residing at the same address which we accomplish by having
ascertained the delivery preferences of investors. In addition, we provide a complete outsourced solution for the processing of international proxies. We also provide a complete reorganization communications solution to notify investors of
reorganizations or corporate action events such as tender offers, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcies, and class action lawsuits.

We also offer our bank and brokerage clients financial information distribution and transaction reporting services to help them meet their regulatory compliance requirements and business needs including:
prospectus fulfillment services; electronic prospectus services; PostEdge, our electronic document archival and electronic delivery solution for documents including trade confirmations, tax documents and account statements; marketing communications;
imaging, archival and workflow solutions; and on-demand digital print services. In addition, we offer our Mailbox products—Advisor Mailbox™ and Investor Mailbox®—which provide a holistic network environment that supports and complements any investor communication strategy. Advisor Mailbox is the latest addition to our
Investor Mailbox solution, our service providing the electronic delivery of investor communications to our clients’ websites, creating investor access to regulatory delivery notices, day-to-day account and investment information and convenient
response tools. Our Advisor Mailbox is an electronic communications platform for financial advisors that delivers immediate electronic access to the communications and documents sent to such advisors’ customers. Advisor Mailbox streamlines
multiple communication paths for all investor-related documents into a single-visit portal that is integrated onto an advisor’s platform.

We also provide tax services to financial services firms that support their various daily workflows, supervisory control and client reporting requirements for information reporting (e.g., Forms 1099 and
1042-S), with a focus on securities and fund processing and clearance operations. Our tax data services provide tax content and data management, including securities tax classifications and reclassifications, calculations of original issue
discount and other accrual and cost basis adjusting events. Our tax managed services provide technology and personnel outsourcing, withholding services and client reporting, including print/electronic distribution and archival.

Our fiscal year 2011 acquisition of NewRiver has provided us with important capabilities for the broker-dealer and retirement and annuity
markets. Specifically, NewRiver’s proprietary extraction, normalization and







presentment capabilities from the SEC’s EDGAR database have enabled us to enhance our prospectus post-sale fulfillment operations by moving to an on-demand solution. This process provides
efficiency for our clients as it reduces their reliance on offset print and fund delivered inventory. Broadridge has also been able to leverage the intellectual property in this business to provide portfolio-specific solutions for the
retirement and annuity markets. Through our integration of this functionality into our existing capabilities, we offer a new and efficient fulfillment model for regulatory and compliance mailings.

We also acquired Forefield in fiscal year 2011. Forefield has expanded its services portfolio to leverage its industry leading financial
content for use by financial services firms in their social media content libraries. Forefield also provides an advisor website product that can be populated with Forefield’s content or content created by the advisor. Forefield continues to
develop new applications that further the goal of creating timely, accurate and meaningful communications for both advisors and their clients. For example, Forefield’sWomen’s Resource Center, which contains a broad selection of
content for both the advisor and their client, focuses specifically on the requirements and challenges faced by women investors.

In fiscal year 2014, we added to our portfolio of services for financial advisors with the Emerald acquisition. Emerald enables financial institutions and their advisors to advise, educate and communicate
with their clients and prospects through a suite of solutions including websites and web optimization services, seminars, newsletters, and print and electronic prospecting campaigns.

Institutional Investor Offerings.We provide a suite of services to manage the entire proxy voting
process of institutional investors, including fulfilling their fiduciary obligations and meeting their reporting needs, such as ProxyEdge, our workflow solution that integrates ballots for positions held across multiple custodians and presents them
under a single proxy. Voting can be instructed for the entire position, by account vote group or on an individual account basis either manually or automatically based on the recommendations of participating governance research providers. ProxyEdge
also provides for client reporting and regulatory reporting. ProxyEdge can be utilized for meetings of U.S. and Canadian companies and for meetings in many non-North American countries based on the holdings of our global custodian clients. ProxyEdge
is offered in several languages and there are currently approximately 5,300 ProxyEdge users worldwide.

Corporate Issuer Offerings.We are the largest processor and provider of investor communication
solutions to public companies through the performance of beneficial proxy services for our bank and broker-dealer clients. We offer our corporate issuer clients many tools to facilitate their communications with investors such as Internet and
telephone proxy voting, electronic delivery of corporate filings, and householding of communications to stockholders at the same address. One of our opportunities for growth in the Investor Communication Solutions segment involves serving corporate
issuer clients in providing communications services to registered stockholders—that is, stockholders who do not hold their shares through a broker-dealer in street name. We also offer proxy services to non-North American corporate issuers in
connection with their general and special meetings of stockholders. Our corporate issuer services include
ShareLink®, which provides complete project management for the beneficial and registered proxy process.

We also provide registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services. Our strategy in the transfer agency business is to
address the needs public companies have expressed for lower cost, more reliable stockholder record maintenance and communication services. We are accomplishing this by leveraging our investor communications and securities processing capabilities to
enable us to deliver enhanced transfer agency services to corporate issuers. In addition, we offer issuers and their shareholders the ability to migrate their shareholders’ holdings from registered to beneficial ownership, thereby creating
efficiencies for issuers and greater convenience for their shareholders.

Our Shareholder Forum™ solution is an online
venue that offers public companies the ability to host structured, controlled communication with their shareholders on a timely and regular basis. Validated shareholders can submit questions, answer surveys in preparation of the annual meeting and
year-round, and







communicate in various ways with a corporation. Our Virtual Shareholder Meeting™ service provides corporate issuers with the ability to host their annual meeting electronically on the
Internet, either on a stand-alone basis, or in conjunction with their physical annual meeting where permitted by state corporate law. As the provider of beneficial shareholder proxy processing on behalf of many banks and brokerage firms, we provide
shareholder validation and voting services to companies that want to hold virtual meetings.

In fiscal year 2014, we introduced
Shareholder Data Services, a platform integrating three new capabilities for corporate issuers: an analytics engine for obtaining a comprehensive view of a company’s shareholder base – both registered and beneficial shareholders;
custom targeted communications for reaching discrete shareholder segments based on specific criteria; and response reporting for evaluating results of targeted reminder mailings to shareholders. Shareholder Data Services enables companies to better
plan and prepare for the proxy process by leveraging information about historical patterns of shareholder participation and behavior in the design of communication strategies with targeted segments of shareholders. Companies can also monitor
progress of their proxy voting and easily take action when voting requirements or internal favorable voting thresholds are at risk. Combined with the ability to measure their shareholders’ response to communications, this product suite also
enables companies to capture valuable ownership and voting behavior data as a basis for on-going investor communications initiatives.

Mutual Fund Offerings.We provide a full range of tools that enable mutual funds to communicate with large audiences of investors efficiently, reliably, and often with substantial cost
savings. Our solutions allow mutual funds to centralize all investor communications through one resource. We also provide printing and mailing of regulatory reports, prospectuses and proxy materials, as well as proxy solicitation services. In
addition, we distribute marketing communications and informational materials and create on-demand enrollment materials for mutual fund investors. Our position in the industry enables us to manage the entire communication process with both registered
and beneficial stockholders. Our Data Aggregation and Analysis platform, which includes the recently acquired Bonaire services, provides comprehensive data gathering and data management solutions. Our software is delivered as a service and
assists mutual funds and investment managers in processing commission and distribution payments, calculating fee revenue, monitoring their compliance with regulatory requirements, and assembling shareholder and intermediary data in a form to better
drive their sales strategy and marketing programs.

In addition, we provide mutual fund processing services for third party
administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals through our subsidiary, Matrix. Our back-office, trust, custody, trading and mutual fund settlement services are integrated into our product suite, thereby strengthening
our role as a provider of data processing and distribution channel solutions to the mutual fund industry.

Securities Processing
Solutions

Transactions involving securities and other financial market instruments originate with an investor, who
places an order with a broker who in turn routes that order to an appropriate market for execution. At that point, the parties to the transaction coordinate payment and settlement of the transaction through a clearinghouse. The records of the
parties involved must then be updated to reflect completion of the transaction. Tax, custody, accounting and record-keeping requirements must be complied with in connection with the transaction and the customer’s account information must
correctly reflect the transaction. The accurate processing of trading activity and custody activity requires effective automation and information flow across multiple systems and functions within the brokerage firm and across the systems of the
various parties that participate in the execution of a transaction.

Our Global Technology and Operations Solutions business
provides services that automate the transaction lifecycle of equity, mutual fund, fixed income, and option securities trading operations, from order capture and execution through trade confirmation, settlement, custody and accounting. Our services
facilitate the automation of straight-through-processing operations and enable financial institutions to efficiently and cost-effectively







consolidate their books and records, gather and service assets under management, focus on their core businesses, and manage risk. With our multi-currency capabilities, we support trading
activities on a global basis.

In September 2011, we acquired Paladyne, now known as Broadridge Investment Management,
Reference Data and Risk Solutions, a provider of buy-side technology solutions for the global investment management industry. Broadridge Investment Management, Reference Data and Risk Solutions provides front-, middle-, and back-office solutions
such as Order Management, Data Warehousing, Reporting, Risk Management and Portfolio Accounting to hedge funds, investment managers and the providers that service this space (prime brokers, hedge fund administrators and custodians). The client
base for these services includes start-up or emerging managers through some of the largest global hedge fund complexes and global administrators. We have integrated our business process outsourcing expertise with this business to offer a set of
managed services to the buy-side of the industry. The Broadridge Investment Management, Reference Data and Risk Solutions business has enhanced the asset classes we service and expanded our global footprint and market coverage.

Our securities processing services represented approximately 27%, 27%, and 29% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2014, 2013, and
2012, respectively. These services include the following:

North American Securities Processing
Services.We provide a set of sophisticated, multi-currency systems that support real-time processing of securities transactions in North American equities, options, fixed income securities, and mutual funds. Brokerage
Processing Services (“BPS”) is our core multi-currency back-office processing system that supports real-time processing of transactions in the U.S. markets. BPS handles everything from order management to clearance/settlement and custody,
and assists our clients in meeting their regulatory reporting and other back-office requirements. BPS is provided on a hosted ASP basis. We also offer a version of BPS for processing Canadian securities. In addition to our BPS offering, we provide
specialized transaction processing tools and services for small to mid-market financial firms in Canada. We also provide state-of-the-art fixed income transaction processing capabilities and support for front-, middle-, and back-office functions.
Our securities processing services can be integrated with our web-based desktop applications, wealth management tools, enterprise workflow, automated inquiry reporting and record-keeping services.

International Securities Processing Services.We provide advanced multi-currency transaction processing solutions
for institutional and retail securities operations, corporate actions, and business process outsourcing services such as data cleansing. Our Global Processing Solution is our integrated delivery of multiple securities processing products and
services to create a comprehensive system that is capable of processing transactions in equity, option, mutual fund, and fixed income securities in established and emerging markets, at any time. Its advanced real-time processes automate the
securities transaction lifecycle from order capture and execution through confirmation, settlement, and accounting.

In May
2013, we entered a strategic alliance with Accenture plc (“Accenture”) to launch Accenture Post-Trade Processing, combining Accenture’s global business process outsourcing capabilities and global capital markets industry expertise
with Broadridge’s leading post-trade securities processing technology. The solution provides post-trade processing and technology services to support settlement, books and records, asset servicing, operational management and control, real-time
data access and administrative accounting. It is designed to help banks operating in Europe and the Asia Pacific region reduce post-trade processing costs, adapt to new regulations and technology, and quickly and efficiently launch new products and
enter new markets.

Business Process Outsourcing Services.We also provide business process
outsourcing services that support the operations of our clients’ businesses including their securities clearing, record-keeping, and custody-related functions. Our clients execute and clear their securities transactions and engage us to perform
a number of related administrative back-office functions, such as record-keeping and reconciliations. In this capacity, we are not the broker-dealer of record.







Broadridge’s Integrated Solutions

Our core systems for processing equity, option, and mutual fund transactions in the U.S. markets can also be combined with our specialized
systems for processing fixed income and international securities transactions. These specialized securities processing services can be fully integrated with business process outsourcing services. In addition, our clients can integrate our securities
processing and business process outsourcing services with our other services including: (i) the processing of trade confirmations and account statements, delivered in paper or electronically; (ii) equity and mutual fund prospectus
processing; (iii) automated workflow tools that help our clients streamline their securities processing and operations activities; and (iv) a full suite of wealth management products including data aggregation tools, end-customer websites,
broker desktop, financial planning and modeling tools, performance reporting and portfolio accounting.

Clients

We serve a large and diverse client base in the financial services industry including retail and institutional brokerage firms, global
banks, mutual funds, annuity companies, institutional investors, specialty trading firms, clearing firms, third party administrators, hedge funds, and financial advisors. We also provide services to corporate issuers.

In fiscal year 2014, we:



•processed over 80% of the outstanding shares in the U.S. in the performance of our proxy services;



•processed over two billion investor communications through either paper or electronic channels;



•processed on average over $5 trillion in equity and fixed income trades per day of U.S. and Canadian securities, including approximately 60% of U.S.
fixed income trades; and



•provided fixed income trade processing services to 16 of the 22 primary dealers of fixed income securities in the U.S.

In fiscal year 2014, we derived approximately 25% of our consolidated revenues from five clients. Our largest single client accounted for
approximately 5% of our consolidated revenues.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our Investor Communication Solutions business competes with companies that provide investor communication and corporate governance solutions including transfer
agents who handle communication services to registered (non-beneficial) securities holders, proxy advisory firms, proxy solicitation firms and other proxy services providers. We also face competition from numerous firms in the compiling and printing
of transaction confirmations and account statements. Our Securities Processing Solutions business principally competes with brokerage firms that perform their trade processing in-house, and with numerous other outsourcing vendors. Our back-office
support services offered through this segment also compete with very large financial institutions that manage their own back-office record-keeping operations. In many cases, clients engage us only to perform certain functions, such as back-office
processing, and do not outsource their other functions such as clearing operations support that we would also perform for them.

Technology

We have several information processing systems which serve as the core foundation of our technology platform. We leverage
these systems in order to provide our services. We are committed to maintaining extremely high levels of quality service through our skilled technical employees and the use of our technology within an environment that seeks continual improvement.

Our mission-critical applications are designed to provide high levels of availability, scalability, reliability, and
flexibility. They operate on industry standard enterprise architecture platforms that provide high degrees of horizontal and vertical scaling. This scalability and redundancy allows us to provide high degrees of system availability. In March 2010,
we entered into an Information Technology Services Agreement (the “IT Services







Agreement”) with International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”), under which IBM performs a broad range of technology services including supporting our mainframe, midrange,
open systems, network and data center operations, as well as providing disaster recovery services. We have the option of incorporating additional services into the agreement over time. The IT Services Agreement expires on June 30, 2022. We have
the right to renew the initial term of the IT Services Agreement for up to one additional 12-month term. Our principal data center systems and applications had previously been operated and managed by ADP. The migration of our data center processing
from ADP to IBM was completed in August 2012.

In March 2014, the Company and IBM United Kingdom Limited
(“IBM UK”) entered into an Information Technology Services Agreement (the “EU IT Services Agreement”), under which IBM UK provides data center services supporting the Company’s technology outsourcing services
for certain clients in Europe and Asia. The EU IT Services Agreement expires in October 2023. The Company has the right to renew the initial term of the EU IT Services Agreement for up to one additional 12-month term or one additional 24-month
term. We have the right to terminate the agreements with IBM for several reasons including for cause, for convenience, or in the event of a change of ownership control of IBM. However, several of the grounds for termination by Broadridge require us
to pay a termination fee to IBM. IBM also has certain termination rights in the event of a material breach of the Company’s obligations under the agreements and its failure to cure.

Most of our systems and applications process in Tier III+ and Tier IV data centers. Tier III+ and Tier IV data centers employ multiple
active power and cooling distribution paths, redundant components, and are capable of providing 99.995% availability. Tier III+ and Tier IV data centers provide infrastructure capacity and capability to permit any planned activity without disruption
to the critical load, and can sustain at least one worst-case, unplanned failure or event with no critical load impact. Our geographically dispersed processing centers also provide disaster recovery and business continuity processing.

To further demonstrate our commitment to maintaining the highest levels of quality service and client satisfaction within an environment
that fosters continual improvement, most of our business units and our core applications and facilities for the provision of many services including our proxy services, U.S. equity and fixed income securities processing services, and
IBM’s data centers, are International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) 27001 certified. This security standard specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, operating, monitoring, reviewing, maintaining and
improving a documented Information Security Management System within the context of the organization’s overall business risks. It specifies the requirements for the implementation of security controls customized to the needs of individual
organizations. This standard addresses confidentiality, access control, vulnerability, business continuity, and risk assessment. In addition, our operations facilities are ISO 9001:2000 certified.

Product Development.Our products and services are designed with reliability, availability, scalability, and flexibility so
that we can fully meet our clients’ processing needs. These applications are built in a manner which allows us to meet the breadth and depth of requirements of our financial services industry clients in a highly efficient manner. We continually
upgrade, enhance, and expand our existing products and services taking into account input from clients, industry-wide initiatives and regulatory changes affecting our clients.

Intellectual Property.We own a portfolio of more than 60 U.S. and non-U.S. patent and patent applications. We also own registered marks for our trade name and own or have applied for
trademark registrations for many of our services and products. We regard our products and services as proprietary and utilize internal security practices and confidentiality restrictions in contracts with employees, clients, and others for
protection. We believe that we are the owner or in some cases, the licensee, of all intellectual property and other proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business.

Employees

At June 30, 2014, we had approximately 6,700 employees.
None of our employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements governing their employment with our company. We believe that our employee relations are good.







Regulation

The securities and financial services industries are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the U.S. and the rest of the
world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets.

In the U.S., the securities and financial services industries are subject to regulation under both federal and state laws. At the federal level, the SEC regulates the securities industry, along with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), the various stock exchanges, and other SROs. Our Investor Communication Solutions and Securities Processing Solutions businesses are generally not directly subject to federal, state,
or foreign laws and regulations that are specifically applicable to financial institutions. However, as a provider of services to financial institutions and issuers of securities, our services, such as our proxy distribution and processing services,
are provided in a manner to assist our clients in complying with the laws and regulations to which they are subject. As a result, the services we provide may change as applicable laws and regulations are adopted or revised. We monitor legislative
and rulemaking activity by the SEC, FINRA, the exchanges and other regulatory bodies that may impact our services, and if new laws or regulations are adopted or changes are made to existing laws or regulations applicable to our services, we expect
to adapt our business practices and service offerings to continue to assist our clients in fulfilling their obligations under new or modified requirements.

Certain of our securities processing operations are periodically reviewed by the U.S. Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”) under its authority to examine financial
institutions’ technology service providers. Examinations by the FFIEC generally include areas such as data integrity, disaster recovery, and information security. A sufficiently unfavorable review from the FFIEC could result in our clients not
being allowed to use our services.

Our business process outsourcing and mutual fund processing services are performed by a
securities broker-dealer, Broadridge Business Process Outsourcing, LLC (“BBPO”). BBPO is registered with the SEC, is a member of FINRA and is required to participate in the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”).
Although BBPO’s FINRA membership agreement allows it to engage in clearing, and the retailing of corporate securities in addition to mutual fund retailing on a wire order basis, BBPO does not clear customer transactions, process any retail
business or carry customer accounts. BBPO is subject to regulations concerning many aspects of its business, including trade practices, capital requirements, record retention, money laundering prevention, the protection of customer funds and
customer securities, and the supervision of the conduct of directors, officers and employees. A failure to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations could result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, or the suspension
or revocation of SEC or FINRA authorization granted to allow the operation of its business or disqualification of its directors, officers or employees. Recently, there has been increased regulatory scrutiny of the securities industry including the
outsourcing by firms of their operations or functions. This oversight could result in the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules with respect to business process outsourcing.

In addition, MG Trust Company, LLC (“MG Trust Company”), a subsidiary of Matrix, is a Colorado State non-depository trust
company and National Securities Clearing Corporation trust member, whose primary business is to provide cash agent, custodial and directed or non-discretionary trust services to institutional customers. MG Trust Company operates pursuant to the
rules and regulations of the Colorado Division of Banking.

Our transfer agency business, Broadridge Corporate Issuer
Solutions, is subject to certain rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, including without limitation, with respect to registration with the SEC, annual reporting, examination, internal controls, proper disposal of shareholder information and
obligations relating to its operations. Our transfer agency business has been formally approved by the NYSE to act as a transfer agent or registrar for issuers of NYSE listed securities and is subject to certain NYSE requirements







concerning operational standards. Furthermore, it is also subject to U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) regulations, as well as certain provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act and the Federal Trade Commission’s regulations with respect to maintenance of information security safeguards.

Privacy and
Information Security Regulations

There has been increased public
attention regarding the use of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. The law in these areas continues to develop. While we believe that
Broadridge is compliant with its regulatory responsibilities, information security threats continue to evolve resulting in increased risk and exposure. In addition, legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings, or other events could expose
Broadridge to increased costs, liability, and possible damage to our reputation.

Seasonality

Processing and distributing proxy materials and annual reports to investors in equity securities and mutual funds comprises a large
portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business. We process and distribute the greatest number of proxy materials and annual reports during our fourth fiscal quarter (the second quarter of the calendar year). The recurring periodic activity
of this business is linked to significant filing deadlines imposed by law on public reporting companies and mutual funds. Historically, this has caused our revenues, operating income, net earnings, and cash flows from operating activities to be
higher in our fourth fiscal quarter than in any other quarter. The seasonality of our revenues makes it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific fiscal quarter and could affect an investor’s ability to
compare our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows on a fiscal quarter-by-quarter basis.

Segment and Geographic Area
Financial Information

You can find financial information regarding our operating segments and our geographic areas in Note
19, “Financial Data By Segment” to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information

Our headquarters are located at 1981 Marcus Avenue,
Lake Success, New York 11042, and our telephone number is(516) 472-5400.

We maintain an Investor Relations website
on the Internet at www.broadridge-ir.com. We make available free of charge, on or through this website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those







reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these reports, just click on the “SEC Filings” link
found at the top of our Investor Relations page. You can also access our Investor Relations page through our main website at www.broadridge.com by clicking on the “Investor Relations” link, which is located at the top of our homepage.
Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.



