ITEM 1.Business

Overview

Broadridge is a leading global provider of investor communications and technology-driven solutions to banks, broker-dealers, mutual funds
and corporate issuers. Our systems and services include investor communication solutions, and securities processing and business process outsourcing services. In short, we provide the infrastructure that helps the financial services industry
operate. With over 50 years of experience, we provide financial services firms with advanced, dependable, scalable and cost-effective integrated systems. Our systems help reduce the need for clients to make significant capital investments in
operations infrastructure, thereby allowing them to increase their focus on core business activities.

We deliver a broad
range of solutions that help our clients better serve their retail and institutional customers across the entire investment lifecycle, including pre-trade, trade, and post-trade processing. We serve a large and diverse client base across our four
businesses: Bank/Broker-Dealer Communications, Mutual Fund and Retirement Solutions, Corporate Issuer Solutions, and Bank/Broker-Dealer Technology and Operations. Our businesses operate in two business segments: Investor Communication Solutions
and Securities Processing Solutions.

Investor Communication Solutions

Our Bank/Broker-Dealer Communications, Mutual Fund and Retirement Solutions and Corporate Issuer Solutions businesses
operate within this segment. A large portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business involves the processing and distribution of proxy materials to investors in equity securities and mutual funds, as well as the facilitation of related vote
processing. ProxyEdge®, our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors
and financial advisors, helps ensure the participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. We also provide the distribution of regulatory reports and corporate action/reorganization event information, as well as tax reporting solutions
that help our clients meet their regulatory compliance needs. In addition, we provide financial information distribution and transaction reporting services to both financial institutions and securities issuers. These services include the processing
and distribution of account statements and trade confirmations, traditional and personalized document fulfillment and content management services, marketing communications, and imaging, archival and workflow solutions that enable and enhance our
clients’ communications with investors. All of these communications are delivered through paper or electronic channels. In addition, Broadridge provides corporate issuers with registered proxy services as well as registrar, stock transfer and
record-keeping services.



•Bank/Broker-Dealer Communications: Broadridge is the leader in corporate governance activities, processing approximately 85% of the outstanding
shares in the United States (“U.S.”), and approximately 72% of the shares voted outside the U.S. in the performance of our proxy services. We process approximately two billion investor communications annually through a combination of
physical and electronic channels.



•Mutual Fund and Retirement Solutions: Broadridge is the leading independent provider of retirement fund processing and provides unique
data-driven market intelligence, specialized marketing communications and fund governance.



•Corporate Issuer Solutions: Broadridge serves corporate issuers with a variety of their needs including proxy and transfer agency services, both
domestically and globally.

Securities Processing Solutions

Our Bank/Broker-Dealer Technology and Operations business operates within this segment. We offer a suite of advanced computerized
real-time transaction processing services that automate the securities transaction lifecycle, from desktop productivity tools, data aggregation, performance reporting, and portfolio management to







order capture and execution, trade confirmation, settlement, and accounting. Our services help financial institutions efficiently and cost-effectively consolidate their books and records, gather
and service assets under management, focus on their core businesses, and manage risk. With multi-currency capabilities, our Global Processing Solution supports real-time global trading of equity, option, mutual fund, and fixed income securities in
established and emerging markets. In addition, our business process outsourcing services allow broker-dealers to outsource certain administrative functions relating to clearing and settlement, from order entry to trade matching and settlement, while
maintaining their ability to finance and capitalize their businesses.



•Bank/Broker-Dealer Technology and Operations: Broadridge is the leading back- and middle-office securities processing platform for North
American and global broker-dealers. Provided on an application service provider (“ASP”) basis, Broadridge’s platform is a global market solution, clearing and settling in over 50 countries. Broadridge processes on average
over $5 trillion in equity and fixed income trades per day of U.S. and Canadian securities, including approximately 60% of U.S. fixed income trades.

History and Development of Our Company

We are the former Brokerage
Services division of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (“ADP”). Broadridge was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of ADP on March 29, 2007 in anticipation of our spin-off from ADP. Six years ago, we spun off from ADP
and began operating as an independent public company on March 30, 2007. Our company has over 50 years of history in providing innovative solutions to financial services firms and publicly-held companies. In 1962, the Brokerage Services division
of ADP opened for business with one client, processing an average of 300 trades per night. In 1979, we expanded our U.S.-based securities processing solutions to process Canadian securities.

We made significant additions to our Securities Processing Solutions business through two key acquisitions in the mid-1990s. In 1995, we
acquired a London-based provider of multi-currency clearance and settlement services, to become a global supplier of transaction processing services. In 1996, we acquired a provider of institutional fixed income transaction processing systems.

We began offering our proxy services in 1989. The proxy services business, which started what has become our Investor
Communication Solutions business, leveraged the information processing systems and infrastructure of our Securities Processing Solutions business. Our proxy services offering attracted 31 major clients in its first year of operations. In 1992, we
acquired The Independent Election Corporation of America which further increased our proxy services capabilities. By 1999, we were handling over 90% of the investor communication distributions for securities held of record by banks and
broker-dealers in the U.S.—from proxy statements to annual reports. During the 1990s, we expanded our proxy services business to serve security owners of Canadian and United Kingdom issuers and we began offering a complete outsourced solution
for international proxies.

In 1994, we began offering ProxyEdge, our innovative electronic proxy
delivery and voting solution for institutional investors that helps ensure the participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. In 1998, having previously provided print and distribution services as an accommodation to our securities
processing and proxy clients, we decided to focus on account statement and reporting services. In 2001, we developed and released PostEdge®to meet the need for electronic distribution and archiving of all investor communications.

Three years ago, Broadridge entered the transfer agency business through its acquisition of a provider of registrar,
stock transfer and record-keeping services. In fiscal year 2011, the Company acquired three businesses in the Investor Communication Solutions segment. In August 2010, the Company acquired NewRiver, Inc. (“NewRiver®”), a leader in mutual fund electronic investor disclosure solutions. In December 2010, the Company acquired
Forefield, Inc. (“Forefield®”), a leading provider of real-time sales, education and client
communication solutions for financial institutions and their advisors. In January 2011, the Company acquired Matrix Financial Solutions, Inc. (“Matrix®”). Matrix is a provider of mutual fund processing services for third party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals.
Matrix’s back-office, trust,







custody, trading and mutual fund settlement services are integrated into our product suite thereby strengthening Broadridge’s role as a provider of data processing and distribution channel
solutions to the mutual fund industry.

The Company has also acquired businesses in the Securities
Processing Solutions segment. In fiscal year 2010, the Company acquired City Networks Ltd (“City
Networks®”), a leading software and services provider of reconciliation, multi-asset process automation and
operational risk management solutions to the global financial services industry. In fiscal year 2012, the Company acquired Paladyne Systems, Inc. (“Paladyne®”), a provider of buy-side technology solutions for the global investment management industry.

The Broadridge Business

Investor Communication Solutions

A majority of publicly-traded shares are not registered in companies’ records in the names of their ultimate beneficial owners.
Instead, a substantial majority of all public companies’ shares are held in “street name,” meaning that they are held of record by broker-dealers or banks through their depositories. Most street name shares are registered in the name
“Cede & Co.,” the name used by The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (“DTCC”), which holds shares on behalf of its participant broker-dealers and banks. These participant broker-dealers and banks (which are known
as nominees because they hold securities in name only) in turn hold the shares on behalf of their clients, the individual beneficial owners. Nominees, upon request, are required to provide companies with lists of beneficial owners who do not object
to having their names, addresses, and share holdings supplied to companies, so called “non-objecting beneficial owners” (or “NOBOs”). Objecting beneficial owners (or “OBOs”) may be contacted directly only by the
broker-dealer or bank.

Because DTCC’s role is only that of custodian, a number of mechanisms have been developed in
order to pass the legal rights it holds as the record owner (such as the right to vote) to the beneficial owners. The first step in passing voting rights down the chain is the “omnibus proxy,” which DTCC executes to transfer its voting
rights to its participant nominees.

Under applicable rules, nominees must deliver proxy materials to beneficial owners and
request voting instructions. Nominees are often prohibited by applicable New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), or other self-regulatory organization (“SRO”) rules, or by express agreements with their customers from voting the
securities held in their customers’ accounts in the absence of receiving such customers’ voting instructions.

A
large number of nominees have contracted out the administrative processes of distributing proxy materials and tabulating voting instructions to us. Nominees accomplish this by transferring to us via powers of attorney the authority to execute a
proxy, which authority they receive from DTCC (via omnibus proxy). We then distribute the proxy materials and voting instruction forms (known as “VIFs”) to beneficial owners.

The Securities and Exchange Commission’s (the “SEC”) rules require public companies to reimburse nominees for the expense
of distributing stockholder communications to beneficial owners of securities held in street name. The reimbursement rates are set forth in the rules of SROs, including the NYSE. We act as a billing and collection agent for many nominees with
respect to this reimbursement. We bill public companies on behalf of the nominees, collect the fee and remit to the nominee any difference between the fee that the nominee is entitled to collect and the amount that the nominee has agreed to pay us
for our services. In addition, the NYSE rules establish fees specifically for the services provided by intermediaries in the proxy process such as Broadridge.

We also compile NOBO lists on behalf of nominees in response to requests from issuers. The preparation of NOBO lists is subject to reimbursement by the securities issuers requesting such lists to the
broker-dealers. The reimbursement rates are based on the number of NOBOs on the list produced pursuant to NYSE or other SRO rules. Such rules also provide for certain fees to be paid to third party intermediaries who compile such NOBO lists. We
function as such an intermediary in the NOBO process.







We also provide proxy distribution, vote tabulation, and various additional investor
communication tools and services to institutional investors, corporate issuers, and investment companies.

The services we
provide in this segment represented approximately 73%, 71%, and 72% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. These services include the following:

Bank and Brokerage Offerings. We handle the entire proxy materials distribution and voting process for our bank and
broker-dealer clients on-line and in real-time, from coordination with third-party entities to ordering, inventory maintenance, mailing, tracking and vote tabulation. We offer electronic proxy delivery services for the electronic delivery of proxy
materials to investors and collection of consents; maintenance of a database that contains the delivery method preferences of our clients’ customers; posting of documents on the Internet; e-mail notification to investors notifying them that
proxy materials are available; and proxy voting over the Internet, mobile devices and tablets. We also have the ability to combine stockholder communications for multiple stockholders residing at the same address which we accomplish by having
ascertained the delivery preferences of investors. In addition, we provide a complete outsourced solution for the processing of international proxies. We also provide a complete reorganization communications solution to notify investors of
reorganizations or corporate action events such as tender offers, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcies, and class action lawsuits.

We also offer our bank and brokerage clients financial information distribution and transaction reporting services to help them meet their regulatory compliance requirements and business needs including:
prospectus fulfillment services; electronic prospectus services; PostEdge, our electronic document archival and electronic delivery solution for documents including trade confirmations, tax documents and account statements; marketing communications;
imaging, archival and workflow solutions; and on-demand digital print services. In addition, we offer our Mailbox products—Advisor MailboxTMand Investor Mailbox®—which provide a holistic network environment that supports and complements any investor communication strategy. Advisor Mailbox is the latest complement to our
Investor Mailbox solution, our service providing the electronic delivery of investor communications to our clients’ websites, creating investor access to regulatory delivery notices, day-to-day account and investment information and convenient
response tools. Our Advisor Mailbox is an electronic communications platform for financial advisors that delivers immediate electronic access to the communications and documents sent to such advisors’ customers. Advisor Mailbox streamlines
multiple communication paths for all investor-related documents into a single-visit portal that is integrated onto an advisor’s platform.

We also provide tax services to financial services firms that support their various information year-end reporting (e.g., Forms 1099) and withholding requirements, with a focus on securities and fund
processing/clearance operations. Our tax data services provide tax content and data management, including securities tax classifications and reclassifications, calculations of original issue discount and other accrual and cost basis adjusting
events. Our tax managed services provide technology and personnel outsourcing, withholding services and client reporting, including print/electronic distribution and archival.

In fiscal year 2011, the Company acquired NewRiver, a leader in mutual fund electronic investor disclosure solutions. NewRiver has
provided the Company with important capabilities for the broker-dealer and retirement and annuity markets. Specifically, its proprietary extraction, normalization and presentment capabilities from the SEC’s EDGAR database have enabled us
to enhance our prospectus post-sale fulfillment operations by moving to an on-demand solution. This process provides efficiency for our clients as it reduces their reliance on offset print and fund delivered inventory. Broadridge has also been
able to leverage the intellectual property in this business to provide portfolio-specific solutions for the retirement and annuity markets. Through our integration of this functionality into our existing capabilities, we offer a new and
efficient fulfillment model for regulatory and compliance mailings.

The Company also acquired Forefield in fiscal year 2011,
a leading provider of real-time sales, education and client communication solutions for financial institutions and their advisors. Forefield has expanded its services portfolio to leverage its industry leading financial content for use by financial
services firms in their social media content libraries. Forefield also provides an advisor website product that can be populated with







Forefield’s content or content created by the advisor. Forefield continues to develop new applications that further the goal of creating timely, accurate and meaningful communications for
both advisors and their clients. For example, Forefield’sWomen’s Resource Center, which contains a broad selection of content for both the advisor and their client, focuses specifically on the requirements and challenges faced by
women investors.

Institutional Investor Offerings.We provide a suite of services to manage the entire
proxy voting process of institutional investors, including fulfilling their fiduciary obligations and meeting their reporting needs such as ProxyEdge, our workflow solution that integrates ballots for positions held across multiple custodians and
presents them under a single proxy. Voting can be instructed for the entire position, by account vote group or on an individual account basis either manually or automatically based on the recommendations of participating governance research
providers. ProxyEdge also provides for client reporting and regulatory reporting. ProxyEdge can be utilized for meetings of U.S. and Canadian companies and for meetings in many non-North American countries based on the holdings of our global
custodian clients. ProxyEdge is offered in several languages and there are currently 4,500 ProxyEdge users worldwide.

Corporate Issuer Offerings.We are the largest processor and provider of investor communication solutions to public companies. We offer our corporate issuer clients many tools to
facilitate their communications with investors such as Internet and telephone proxy voting, electronic delivery of corporate filings, and householding of communications to stockholders at the same address. One of our opportunities for growth in the
Investor Communication Solutions segment involves serving corporate issuer clients in providing communications services to registered stockholders—that is, stockholders who do not hold their shares through a broker-dealer in street name. We
also offer proxy services to non-North American corporate issuers in connection with their general and special meetings of stockholders. Our corporate issuer services include ShareLink®, which provides complete project management for the beneficial and registered proxy process.

We also provide registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services. Our strategy in the transfer agency business is to address the needs public companies have expressed for lower cost, more reliable
stockholder record maintenance and communication services. We intend to accomplish this by leveraging our existing investor communications and securities processing capabilities to enable us to deliver enhanced transfer agency services to corporate
issuers. In addition, we can offer issuers and their shareholders the ability to migrate their shareholders’ holdings from registered to beneficial ownership, thereby creating efficiencies for issuers and greater convenience for their
shareholders.

Our Shareholder ForumTMsolution is an online venue that offers public companies the ability to host structured, controlled communication with
their shareholders on a timely and regular basis. Validated shareholders can submit questions, answer surveys in preparation of the annual meeting and year-round, and communicate in various ways with a corporation. Our Virtual Shareholder
MeetingTMservice provides corporate issuers in a number
of states with the ability to host their annual meeting electronically on the Internet, either on a stand-alone basis, or in conjunction with their physical annual meeting. As the entity that provides beneficial shareholder proxy processing on
behalf of many banks and brokerage firms, we can provide shareholder validation and voting to companies that want to hold virtual meetings.

Mutual Fund Offerings.We provide a full range of tools that enable mutual funds to communicate with large audiences of investors efficiently, reliably, and often with substantial
cost savings. Our solutions allow mutual funds to centralize all investor communications through one resource. We also provide printing and mailing of regulatory reports, prospectuses and proxy materials, as well as proxy solicitation services. In
addition, we distribute marketing communications and informational materials and create on-demand enrollment materials for mutual fund investors. Our position in the industry enables us to manage the entire communication process with both registered
and beneficial stockholders. Our Access Data SalesVision®platform provides comprehensive data aggregation and
data management solutions. SalesVision is software delivered as a service and assists mutual funds in processing commission and distribution payments, monitoring their compliance with regulatory requirements, and assembling shareholder and
intermediary data in a form to better drive their sales strategy and marketing programs.







In addition, we provide mutual fund processing services for third party administrators,
financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals through our subsidiary Matrix, which was acquired in fiscal year 2011. Our back-office, trust, custody, trading and mutual fund settlement services are integrated into our product suite,
thereby strengthening our role as a provider of data processing and distribution channel solutions to the mutual fund industry.

Securities Processing Solutions

Transactions involving securities and other financial market instruments originate with an investor, who places an order with a broker who in turn routes that order to an appropriate market for execution.
At that point, the parties to the transaction coordinate payment and settlement of the transaction through a clearinghouse. The records of the parties involved must then be updated to reflect completion of the transaction. Tax, custody, accounting
and record-keeping requirements must be complied with in connection with the transaction and the customer’s account information must correctly reflect the transaction. The accurate processing of trading activity and custody activity requires
effective automation and information flow across multiple systems and functions within the brokerage firm and across the systems of the various parties that participate in the execution of a transaction.

Our securities processing solutions automate the transaction lifecycle of equity, mutual fund, fixed income, and option securities
trading operations, from order capture and execution through trade confirmation, settlement, custody and accounting. Our services facilitate the automation of straight-through-processing operations and enable financial institutions to efficiently
and cost-effectively consolidate their books and records, gather and service assets under management, focus on their core businesses, and manage risk. With our multi-currency capabilities, we support trading activities on a global basis.

In September 2011, we acquired Paladyne, a provider of buy-side technology solutions for the global investment management industry.
Paladyne provides front-, middle-, and back-office solutions such as Order Management, Data Warehousing, Reporting and Portfolio Accounting to hedge funds, investment managers and the providers that service this space (prime brokers, hedge fund
administrators and custodians). The scope of Paladyne’s client base includes start-up or emerging managers through some of the largest global hedge fund complexes and global administrators. We have integrated our business process
outsourcing expertise with the Paladyne technology solutions to offer a set of managed services to the buy-side of the industry. Paladyne has enhanced the asset classes we service and expanded our global footprint and market coverage.

In March 2010, we entered into an Information Technology Services Agreement (the “IT Services Agreement”) with
International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”), under which IBM provides certain aspects of our information technology infrastructure. The migration of our data center processing from ADP to IBM was completed in August 2012.

Our securities processing services represented approximately 27%, 29%, and 28% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2013,
2012, and 2011, respectively. These services include the following:

North American Processing Services.We provide a set of sophisticated, multi-currency systems that support real-time processing of securities transactions in North American equities, options, fixed income securities, and mutual funds. Brokerage Processing Services
(“BPS”) is our core multi-currency back-office processing system that supports real-time processing of transactions in the U.S. markets. BPS handles everything from order management to clearance/settlement and custody, and assists our
clients in meeting their regulatory reporting and other back-office requirements. BPS is provided on a hosted ASP basis. We also offer a version of BPS for processing Canadian securities. In addition to our BPS offering, we provide specialized
transaction processing tools and services for small to mid-market financial firms in Canada. We also provide state-of-the-art fixed income transaction processing capabilities and support for front-, middle-, and back-office functions. Our securities
processing services can be integrated with our web-based desktop applications, wealth management tools, enterprise workflow, automated inquiry reporting and record-keeping services.







International Processing Services.We provide advanced multi-currency
transaction processing solutions for institutional and retail securities operations, corporate actions, and business process outsourcing services such as data cleansing. Our Global Processing Solution is our integrated delivery of multiple
securities processing products and services to create a comprehensive system that is capable of processing transactions in equity, option, mutual fund, and fixed income securities in established and emerging markets, at any time. Its advanced
real-time processes automate the securities transaction lifecycle from order capture and execution through confirmation, settlement, and accounting.

Business Process Outsourcing Services.We also provide business process outsourcing services relating to a variety of securities clearing, record-keeping, and custody-related
functions. Our clients execute and clear their securities transactions and engage us to perform a number of related administrative back-office functions, such as record-keeping and reconciliations. In this capacity, we are not the broker-dealer of
record.

Broadridge’s Integrated Solutions

Our core systems for processing equity, option, and mutual fund transactions in the U.S. markets can also be combined with our specialized systems for processing fixed income and international securities
transactions. These specialized securities processing services can be fully integrated with business process outsourcing services. In addition, our clients can integrate our securities processing and business process outsourcing services with our
other services including: (i) the processing of trade confirmations and account statements, delivered in paper or electronically; (ii) equity and mutual fund prospectus processing; (iii) automated workflow tools that help our clients
streamline their securities processing and operations activities; and (iv) a full suite of wealth management products including data aggregation tools, end-customer websites, broker desktop, financial planning and modeling tools, performance
reporting and portfolio accounting.

Clients

We serve a large and diverse client base in the financial services industry including retail and institutional brokerage firms, global banks, mutual funds, annuity companies, institutional investors,
specialty trading firms, clearing firms, third party administrators, and hedge funds. We also provide services to corporate issuers.

In fiscal year 2013, we:



•processed approximately 85% of the outstanding shares in the U.S. in the performance of our proxy services;



•processed approximately two billion investor communications through either paper or electronic channels;



•processed on average over $5 trillion in equity and fixed income trades per day of U.S. and Canadian securities, including approximately 60% of U.S.
fixed income trades; and



•provided fixed income trade processing services to 15 of the 21 primary dealers of fixed income securities in the U.S.

In fiscal year 2013, we derived approximately 25% of our consolidated revenues from five clients. Our largest single client accounted for
approximately 6% of our consolidated revenues.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our Investor Communication Solutions business competes with companies that provide investor communication and corporate governance solutions including transfer
agents who handle communication services to registered (non-beneficial) securities holders, proxy advisory firms, proxy solicitation firms and other proxy services providers. We also face competition from numerous firms in the compiling and printing
of transaction confirmations and account statements. Our Securities







Processing Solutions business principally competes with brokerage firms that perform their trade processing in-house, and with numerous other outsourcing vendors. Our back-office support services
offered through this segment also compete with very large financial institutions that manage their own back-office record-keeping operations. In many cases, clients engage us only to perform certain functions, such as back-office processing, and do
not outsource their other functions such as clearing operations support that we would also perform for them.

Technology

We have several information processing systems which serve as the core foundation of our technology platform. We leverage these systems in
order to provide our services. We are committed to maintaining extremely high levels of quality service through our skilled technical employees and the use of our technology within an environment that seeks continual improvement.

Our mission-critical applications are designed to provide high levels of availability, scalability, reliability, and flexibility. They
operate on industry standard enterprise architecture platforms that provide high degrees of horizontal and vertical scaling. This scalability and redundancy allows us to provide high degrees of system availability. In March 2010, we entered into the
IT Services Agreement with IBM, under which IBM performs a broad range of technology services including supporting our mainframe, midrange, open systems, network and data center operations, as well as providing disaster recovery services. We have
the option of incorporating additional services into the agreement over time. The IT Services Agreement expires on June 30, 2022. We have the right to renew it for up to an additional 12-month term. Our principal data center systems and
applications had previously been operated and managed by ADP. The migration of our data center processing from ADP to IBM was completed in August 2012.

We have the right to terminate the IT Services Agreement for several reasons including for cause, for convenience, or in the event of a change of ownership control of IBM. However, several of the grounds
for termination of the IT Services Agreement by Broadridge require us to pay a termination fee to IBM. IBM also has certain termination rights in the event of a material breach of the Company’s obligations under the IT Services Agreement and
its failure to cure.

Most of our systems and applications process in Tier III+ and Tier IV data centers. Tier III+ and Tier
IV data centers employ multiple active power and cooling distribution paths, redundant components, and are capable of providing 99.995% availability. Tier III+ and Tier IV data centers provide infrastructure capacity and capability to permit any
planned activity without disruption to the critical load, and can sustain at least one worst-case, unplanned failure or event with no critical load impact. Our geographically dispersed processing centers also provide disaster recovery and business
continuity processing.

To further demonstrate our commitment to maintaining the highest levels of quality service and client
satisfaction within an environment that fosters continual improvement, our data centers are International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) 9001:2000 certified. In addition, Broadridge’s core applications and
facilities for the provision of our proxy, U.S. equity and fixed income securities processing services, and IBM’s data centers are ISO 27001 certified. This security standard specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing,
operating, monitoring, reviewing, maintaining and improving a documented Information Security Management System within the context of the organization’s overall business risks. It specifies the requirements for the implementation of security
controls customized to the needs of individual organizations. This standard addresses confidentiality, access control, vulnerability, business continuity, and risk assessment.

Product Development.Our products and services are designed with reliability, availability, scalability, and flexibility so that we can fully meet our clients’ processing needs. These
applications are built in a manner which allows us to meet the breadth and depth of requirements of our financial services industry clients in a highly efficient manner. We continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our existing products and services
taking into account input from clients, industry-wide initiatives and regulatory changes affecting our clients.







Intellectual Property.We own registered marks for our trade name and own or
have applied for trademark registrations for many of our services and products. We regard our products and services as proprietary and utilize internal security practices and confidentiality restrictions in contracts with employees, clients, and
others for protection. We believe that we hold all proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business.

Employees

At June 30, 2013, we had approximately 6,400 employees. None of our employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements
governing their employment with our company. We believe that our employee relations are good.

Regulation

The securities and financial services industries are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions. As a matter
of public policy, regulatory bodies in the U.S. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets.

In the U.S., the securities and financial services industries are subject to regulation under both federal and state laws. At
the federal level, the SEC regulates the securities industry, along with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), the various stock exchanges, and other SROs. Our Investor Communication Solutions and Securities
Processing Solutions businesses are generally not directly subject to federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations that are specifically applicable to financial institutions. However, as a provider of services to financial institutions and
issuers of securities, our services are provided in a manner to assist our clients in complying with the laws and regulations to which they are subject, such as our proxy distribution, processing, and voting services. As a result, the services we
provide may change as applicable SEC, FINRA and SRO regulations are revised. For example, in 2007 the SEC amended the proxy rules to allow public companies to follow a “notice and access” model of proxy material delivery. The SEC’s
notice and access rules caused us to develop and offer a number of new and additional services.

On July 14, 2010, the
SEC voted unanimously to issue for public comment a concept release (the “Concept Release”) focusing on a wide range of topics related to the U.S. proxy system. The Concept Release was organized by the three general topics on which the SEC
sought public input: (1) ensuring the accuracy, transparency, and efficiency of the voting process, (2) enhancing shareholder communication and participation, and (3) addressing the relationship between voting power and economic
interest. The comment period on the Concept Release ended in 2010. The SEC may, but is not necessarily required to, engage in rulemaking with respect to the topics addressed by the Concept Release. In September 2010, the NYSE formed the Proxy Fee
Advisory Committee made up of issuers, broker-dealers and investors to review the NYSE proxy distribution fees. In May 2012, the Proxy Fee Advisory Committee issued its recommendations on the fees paid by issuers for the distribution of proxy
materials to beneficial shareholders. The proposed changes in fees are subject to SEC approval. We will monitor any future actions taken by the SEC, the SROs or other participants in the proxy process with respect to the Concept Release and the
NYSE’s fee proposal. If changes are made to the U.S. proxy system, we expect to continue to adapt our business practices and service offerings to assist our clients in fulfilling their obligations under any new or modified legal requirements
and industry practices.

Certain of our securities processing operations are periodically reviewed by the U.S. Federal
Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”) under its authority to examine financial institutions’ technology service providers. Examinations by the FFIEC cover areas such as data integrity and data security. A sufficiently
unfavorable review from the FFIEC could result in our clients not being allowed to use our services.

Our business process
outsourcing and mutual fund processing services are performed by a registered broker-dealer. As a registered broker-dealer and member of FINRA, it is subject to regulations concerning many aspects of its business, including trade practices, capital
requirements, record retention, money laundering prevention, the







protection of customer funds and customer securities, and the supervision of the conduct of directors, officers and employees. A failure to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations
could result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, or the suspension or revocation of SEC or FINRA authorization granted to allow the operation of its business or disqualification of its directors, officers or employees. In
addition, as a registered broker-dealer, it is required to participate in the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”) for the benefit of customers. In addition, MG Trust Company, LLC (“MG Trust Company®”), a subsidiary of Matrix, is a Colorado State non-depository trust company whose primary business is to
provide cash agent, custodial and directed or non-discretionary trust services to institutional customers. MG Trust Company operates pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Colorado Division of Banking.

In addition, our business process outsourcing services are subject to regulatory oversight by the SEC and FINRA. The recent economic
turmoil has resulted in increased regulatory scrutiny of the securities industry including the outsourcing of regulatory functions. This oversight could result in the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules with respect to business
process outsourcing. We will monitor any future actions taken by the SEC and FINRA, and if new requirements are enacted, we expect to adapt our business practices and service offerings to assist our clients in fulfilling their obligations under any
new or modified legal requirements and industry practices. In addition, if we expand our business process outsourcing services into other countries in the future, we will be required to comply with the regulatory controls of each country in which we
conduct business.

Our transfer agency business, Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions, Inc., is subject to certain rules and
regulations promulgated by the SEC, including without limitation, with respect to registration with the SEC, annual reporting, examination, internal controls, proper disposal of shareholder information and obligations relating to its
operations. Our transfer agency business has been formally approved by the NYSE to act as a transfer agent or registrar for issuers of NYSE listed securities and is subject to certain NYSE requirements concerning operational
standards. Furthermore, it is also subject to U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and postal regulations, as well as certain provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Federal Trade Commission’s regulations with
respect to maintenance of information security safeguards.

Privacy and Information Security Regulations

The processing of personal information is required to provide our services. Data privacy laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign
countries apply to the collection, transfer, use, storage, and destruction of personal information. In the U.S., the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which applies to financial institutions, applies to certain aspects of our business process
outsourcing services, mutual fund processing and transfer agency businesses and to the services that involve data processing for financial institutions, and applies indirectly to our other businesses through contractual commitments with our clients
and through industry standards. In addition, state privacy and information security laws, and consumer protection laws, which apply to businesses that collect or process personal information, also apply directly to our businesses. These laws may
require notification to affected individuals, state officers, and consumer reporting agencies in the event of a security breach that results in unauthorized access to or disclosure of certain non-public personal information. These regulations and
laws also impose requirements for safeguarding personal information through internal policies and procedures.

Similar data
privacy laws related to the collection, transfer, use, and storage of personal information exist outside of the U.S., such as the European Union’s 95/46 EC Directive of the European Parliament, Canada’s Personal Information Protection and
Electronic Documents Act, individual European national laws, and data privacy laws of other countries. In some cases, these laws may be more restrictive and may require different compliance requirements than the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the U.S.
state privacy laws or consumer protection laws, and may impose additional duties on companies.

There has been increased
public attention regarding the corporate use of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy.







The law in these areas is not consistent or settled. While we believe that Broadridge is compliant with its regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political, and business environments in these
areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings, or other events could expose Broadridge to increased program costs, liability, and possible damage to our reputation.

Other

Our
businesses, both directly and indirectly, rely on the Internet and other electronic communications gateways. We intend to expand our use of these gateways. To date, the use of the Internet has been relatively free from regulatory restraints.
However, governmental agencies within the U.S. and other jurisdictions are beginning to address regulatory issues that may arise in connection with the use of the Internet. Accordingly, new regulations or interpretations may be adopted that
constrain our own and our clients’ abilities to transact business through the Internet or other electronic communications gateways.

Seasonality

Processing
and distributing proxy materials and annual reports to investors in equity securities and mutual funds comprises a large portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business. We process and distribute the greatest number of proxy materials and
annual reports during our fourth fiscal quarter (the second quarter of the calendar year). The recurring periodic activity of this business is linked to significant filing deadlines imposed by law on public reporting companies and mutual funds.
Historically, this has caused our revenues, operating income, net earnings, and cash flows from operating activities to be higher in our fourth fiscal quarter than in any other quarter. The seasonality of our revenues makes it difficult to estimate
future operating results based on the results of any specific fiscal quarter and could affect an investor’s ability to compare our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows on a fiscal quarter-by-quarter basis.

Segment and Geographic Area Financial Information

You can find financial information regarding our operating segments and our geographic areas in Note 18, “Financial Data By Segment” to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of
Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information

Our headquarters are located at 1981 Marcus Avenue, Lake Success, New York 11042, and our telephone number is (516) 472-5400.

We maintain an Investor Relations website on the Internet at www.broadridge-ir.com. We make available free of charge, on or
through this website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these reports, just click
on the “SEC Filings” link found at the top of our Investor Relations page. You can also access our Investor Relations page through our main website at www.broadridge.com by clicking on the “Investor Relations” link, which is
located at the top of our homepage. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.



