ITEM 1.Business

Overview

Broadridge is a leading global provider of technology solutions to the financial services industry. Our systems and services include
investor communication solutions, and securities processing and operations outsourcing solutions. In short, we provide the infrastructure that helps the financial services industry operate. With more than 40 years of experience, we provide financial
services firms with advanced, dependable, scalable







and cost-effective integrated systems. Our systems help reduce the need for clients to make significant capital investments in operations infrastructure, thereby allowing them to increase their
focus on core business activities.

We serve a large and diverse client base in the financial services industry, including
retail and institutional brokerage firms, global banks, mutual funds, annuity companies, institutional investors, specialty trading firms, and clearing firms. We also provide services to corporate issuers.

We deliver a broad range of solutions that help our clients better serve their retail and institutional customers across the entire
investment lifecycle, including pre-trade, trade, and post-trade processing. Our securities processing systems enable our clients to process securities transactions in more than 50 countries. In fiscal year 2011, we: (i) distributed over 1.0
billion investor communications, including proxy materials, investor account statements, trade confirmations, tax statements and prospectuses; and (ii) on average processed over 1.5 million equity trades per day and over $4.0 trillion in
fixed income trades per day of United States (U.S.) and Canadian securities. Our operations are classified into two business segments: (1) Investor Communication Solutions and (2) Securities Processing Solutions.

Investor Communication Solutions

A large portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business involves the processing and distribution of proxy materials to investors in equity securities and mutual funds, as well as the facilitation
of related vote processing. ProxyEdge®, our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for
institutional investors, helps ensure the participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. We also provide the distribution of regulatory reports and corporate action/reorganization event information, as well as tax reporting solutions
that help our clients meet their regulatory compliance needs. In addition, we provide financial information distribution and transaction reporting services to both financial institutions and securities issuers. These services include the processing
and distribution of account statements and trade confirmations, traditional and personalized document fulfillment and content management services, marketing communications, and imaging, archival and workflow solutions that enable and enhance our
clients’ communications with investors. All of these communications are delivered in paper or electronic form.

Last
year, Broadridge entered the transfer agency business through its acquisition of StockTrans, Inc. (recently renamed Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions, Inc.), a leading provider of registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services. Our
service offerings are described in “The Broadridge Business” section below.

In fiscal year 2011, the Company
acquired three businesses in the Investor Communication Solutions segment:

NewRiver, Inc.

In August 2010, the Company acquired NewRiver, Inc. (“NewRiver”), a leader in mutual fund electronic investor disclosure
solutions. The purchase price was $77.6 million, net of cash acquired.

Forefield, Inc.

In December 2010, the Company acquired Forefield, Inc. (“Forefield”), a leading provider of real-time sales, education and
client communication solutions for financial institutions and their advisors. The purchase price was $18.3 million, net of cash acquired.

Matrix Financial Solutions, Inc.

In January 2011, the
Company acquired Matrix Financial Solutions, Inc. (“Matrix”). Matrix is a provider of mutual fund processing services for third party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals. Matrix’s back-office,
trust, custody, trading and mutual fund settlement services will be integrated







into Broadridge’s solution suite as part of Broadridge’s strategy to strengthen its role as a provider of data processing and distribution channel solutions to the mutual fund industry.
The purchase price was $197.6 million, net of cash acquired.

Securities Processing Solutions

We offer a suite of advanced computerized real-time transaction processing services that automate the securities transaction lifecycle,
from desktop productivity tools, data aggregation, performance reporting, and portfolio management to order capture and execution, trade confirmation, settlement, and accounting. Our services help financial institutions efficiently and
cost-effectively consolidate their books and records, gather and service assets under management, focus on their core businesses, and manage risk. With multi-currency capabilities, our Global Processing Solution supports real-time global trading of
equity, option, mutual fund, and fixed income securities in established and emerging markets. In addition, our operations outsourcing solutions allow broker-dealers to outsource certain administrative functions relating to clearing and settlement,
from order entry to trade matching and settlement, while maintaining their ability to finance and capitalize their business.

In June 2010, the Company acquired City Networks Ltd, a leading software and services provider of reconciliation, multi-asset process
automation and operational risk management solutions to the global financial services industry, for $37.7 million.

History and Development
of Our Company

We are the former Brokerage Services division of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (“ADP”).
Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of ADP on March 29, 2007 in anticipation of our spin-off from ADP. On March 30, 2007, we spun off from ADP and began operating as an independent
public company. Our company has more than 40 years of history of providing innovative solutions to financial services firms and publicly-held companies. In 1962, the Brokerage Services division of ADP opened for business with one client, processing
an average of 300 trades per night. In 1979, we expanded our U.S.-based securities processing solutions to process Canadian securities.

We made significant additions to our Securities Processing Solutions business through two key acquisitions in the mid-1990s. In 1995, we acquired a London-based provider of multi-currency clearance and
settlement services, to become a global supplier of transaction processing services. In 1996, we acquired a provider of institutional fixed income transaction processing systems.

We began offering our proxy services in 1989. The proxy services business, which started what has become our Investor Communication
Solutions business, leveraged the information processing systems and infrastructure of our Securities Processing Solutions business. Our proxy services offering attracted 31 major clients in its first year of operations. In 1992, we acquired The
Independent Election Corporation of America which further increased our proxy services capabilities. By 1999, we were handling over 90% of the investor communication distributions for all securities held of record by banks and broker-dealers in the
U.S.—from proxy statements to annual reports. During the 1990s, we expanded our proxy services business to serve security owners of Canadian and United Kingdom issuers and we began offering a complete outsourced solution for international
proxies.

In 1998, having previously provided print and distribution services as an accommodation to our
securities processing and proxy clients, we decided to focus on account statement and reporting services. In 2001, we developed and released PostEdge®to meet the need for electronic distribution and archiving of all investor communications.

In 2004, we purchased Bank of America Corporation’s U.S. Clearing and Broker-Dealer Services businesses, which enabled us to provide securities clearing and operations outsourcing services through
our subsidiary, Ridge Clearing & Outsourcing Solutions, Inc. (“Ridge”) In 2010, Ridge sold the contracts of







substantially all of its securities clearing clients and no longer performs securities clearing services for correspondent broker-dealers. Our operations outsourcing services, performed by Ridge,
are now part of our Securities Processing Solutions business.

The Broadridge Business

Our operations are classified into two business segments: (1) Investor Communication Solutions and (2) Securities Processing
Solutions.

Investor Communication Solutions

A majority of publicly-traded shares are not registered in companies’ records in the names of their ultimate beneficial owners. Instead, a substantial majority of all public companies’ shares
are held in “street name,” meaning that they are held of record by broker-dealers or banks through their depositories. Most street name shares are registered in the name “Cede & Co.,” the name used by The Depository
Trust and Clearing Corporation (“DTCC”), which holds shares on behalf of its participant broker-dealers and banks. These participant broker-dealers and banks (which are known as nominees because they hold securities in name only) in turn
hold the shares on behalf of their clients, the individual beneficial owners. Nominees, upon request, are required to provide companies with lists of beneficial owners who do not object to having their names, addresses, and share holdings supplied
to companies, so called “non-objecting beneficial owners” (or “NOBOs”). Objecting beneficial owners (or “OBOs”) may be contacted directly only by the broker-dealer or bank.

Because DTCC’s role is only that of custodian, a number of mechanisms have been developed in order to pass the legal rights it holds
as the record owner (such as the right to vote) to the beneficial owners. The first step in passing voting rights down the chain is the “omnibus proxy,” which DTCC executes to transfer its voting rights to its participant nominees.

Under applicable rules, nominees must deliver proxy materials to beneficial owners and request voting instructions. Nominees
are often prohibited by applicable New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), or other self-regulatory organization (“SRO”) rules, or by express agreements with their customers from voting the securities held in their customers’
accounts in the absence of receiving such customers’ voting instructions.

A large number of nominees have contracted out
the administrative processes of distributing proxy materials and tabulating voting instructions to us. Nominees accomplish this by transferring to us via powers of attorney the authority to execute a proxy, which authority they receive from DTCC
(via omnibus proxy). We then distribute the proxy materials and voting instruction forms (known as “VIFs”) to beneficial owners.

The Securities and Exchange Commission’s (the “SEC”) rules require public companies to reimburse nominees for the expense of distributing stockholder communications to beneficial owners of
securities held in street name. The reimbursement rates are set forth in the rules of SROs, including the NYSE. We act as a billing and collection agent for many nominees with respect to this reimbursement. We bill public companies on behalf of the
nominees, collect the fee and remit to the nominee any difference between the fee that the nominee is entitled to collect and the amount that the nominee has agreed to pay us for our services.

We also compile NOBO lists on behalf of nominees in response to requests from issuers. The preparation of NOBO lists is subject to
reimbursement by the securities issuers requesting such lists to the broker-dealers. The reimbursement rates are based on the number of NOBOs on the list produced pursuant to NYSE or other SRO rules. Such rules also provide for certain fees to be
paid to third party intermediaries who compile such NOBO lists. We function as such an intermediary in the NOBO process.

We
also provide proxy distribution, vote tabulation, and various additional investor communication tools and services to institutional investors, corporate issuers, and investment companies.







The services we provide in this segment represented approximately 72%, 76%, and 74% of our
total Revenues in fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Prior year amounts have been adjusted to reflect the change in reportable segments described in Note 1, “Basis of Presentation” to our Consolidated Financial Statements
under Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These services include the following:

Bank and
Brokerage Offerings. We handle the entire proxy materials distribution and voting process for our bank and broker-dealer clients on-line and in real-time, from coordination with third-party entities to ordering, inventory maintenance,
mailing, tracking and vote tabulation. We offer electronic proxy delivery services for the electronic delivery of proxy materials to investors and collection of consents; maintenance of a database that contains the delivery method preferences of our
clients’ customers; posting of documents on the Internet; e-mail notification to investors notifying them that proxy materials are available; and proxy voting over the Internet. We also have the ability to combine stockholder communications for
multiple stockholders residing at the same address which we accomplish by having ascertained the delivery preferences of investors. In addition, we provide a complete outsourced solution for the processing of international proxies. We also provide a
complete reorganization communications solution to notify investors of reorganizations or corporate action events such as tender offers, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcies, and class action lawsuits.

We also offer our bank and brokerage clients financial information distribution and transaction reporting services to help them meet
their regulatory compliance requirements and business needs including: prospectus fulfillment services; electronic prospectus services; Investor Mailbox, our service providing the electronic delivery of investor communications to our clients’
websites; PostEdge, our electronic document archival and electronic delivery solution for documents including trade confirmations, tax documents and account statements; marketing communications; imaging, archival and workflow solutions; and
on-demand digital print services. We also offer our bank and brokerage clients The Investor Network, our comprehensive social network for validated investors. The Investor Network provides a secure environment for investors to discuss their
investments, the economy and other market-related activity. It can integrate directly with a brokerage firm’s customer-facing website. This allows brokerage customers to participate as validated members without having to divulge personal
and confidential information that other online social media sites typically require.

Institutional Investor
Offerings.We provide a suite of services to manage the entire proxy voting process of institutional investors, including fulfilling their fiduciary obligations and meeting their reporting needs such as ProxyEdge, our workflow
solution that integrates ballots for positions held across multiple custodians and presents them under a single proxy. Voting can be instructed for the entire position, by account vote group or on an individual account basis either manually or
automatically based on the recommendations of participating governance research providers. ProxyEdge also provides for client reporting and regulatory reporting. ProxyEdge can be utilized for meetings of U.S. and Canadian companies and for meetings
in many non-North American countries based on the holdings of our global custodian clients.

Corporate Issuer Offerings.We are the largest processor and provider of investor communication
solutions to public companies. We offer our corporate issuer clients many tools to facilitate their communications with investors such as Internet and telephone proxy voting, electronic delivery of corporate filings, and householding of
communications to stockholders at the same address. One of our opportunities for growth in the Investor Communication Solutions segment involves serving corporate issuer clients in providing communications services to registered
stockholders—that is, stockholders who do not hold their shares through a broker-dealer in street name. We also offer proxy services to non-North American corporate issuers in connection with their general and special meetings of stockholders.
Our corporate issuer services include ShareLink®, which provides complete project management for the beneficial
and registered proxy process.

Our Shareholder Forum solution is an online venue that offers public companies the ability to
host structured, controlled communication with their shareholders on a timely and regular basis. Validated shareholders can submit questions, answer surveys in preparation of the annual meeting and year-round, and communicate in various ways with a
corporation. Our Virtual Shareholder Meeting service provides corporate issuers in a number of states with the ability to host their annual meeting electronically on the Internet, either on







a stand-alone basis, or in conjunction with their physical annual meeting. As the entity that provides beneficial shareholder proxy processing on behalf of many banks and brokerage firms, we can
provide shareholder validation and voting to companies that want to hold virtual meetings.

Last year, we entered the transfer
agency business through our acquisition of StockTrans, Inc., a leading provider of registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services. StockTrans, Inc. recently changed its name to Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions, Inc. Our transfer agency
strategy is to address the needs public companies have expressed for lower-cost, more reliable stockholder record maintenance and communication services by leveraging our existing investor communications and securities processing capabilities to
enable us to deliver enhanced transfer agency services to corporate issuers.

Mutual Fund
Offerings.We provide a full range of tools that enable mutual funds to communicate with large audiences of investors efficiently, reliably, and often with substantial cost savings. Our solutions allow mutual funds to centralize all
investor communications through one resource. We also provide printing and mailing of regulatory reports, prospectuses and proxy materials, as well as proxy solicitation services. In addition, we distribute marketing communications and informational
materials and create on-demand enrollment materials for mutual fund investors. Our position in the industry enables us to manage the entire communication process with both registered and beneficial stockholders. Our SalesVision®platform provides comprehensive data aggregation and data management solutions. SalesVision is software
delivered as a service (“SaaS”) and assists mutual funds in processing commission and distribution payments, monitoring their compliance with regulatory requirements, and assembling shareholder and intermediary data in a form to better
drive their sales strategy and marketing programs.

In January 2011, the Company acquired Matrix, a provider of mutual fund
processing services for third party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals. Matrix’s back-office, trust, custody, trading and mutual fund settlement services will be integrated into Broadridge’s
solution suite as part of Broadridge’s strategy to strengthen its role as a provider of data processing and distribution channel solutions to the mutual fund industry.

Securities Processing Solutions

Transactions involving securities
and other financial market instruments originate with an investor, who places an order with a broker who in turn routes that order to an appropriate market for execution. At that point, the parties to the transaction coordinate payment and
settlement of the transaction through a clearinghouse. The records of the parties involved must then be updated to reflect completion of the transaction. Tax, custody, accounting and record-keeping requirements must be complied with in connection
with the transaction and the customer’s account information must correctly reflect the transaction. The accurate processing of trading activity and custody activity requires effective automation and information flow across multiple systems and
functions within the brokerage firm and across the systems of the various parties that participate in the execution of a transaction.

Our securities processing solutions automate the transaction lifecycle of equity, mutual fund, fixed income, and option securities trading operations, from order capture and execution through trade
confirmation, settlement, custody and accounting. Our services facilitate the automation of straight-through-processing operations and enable financial institutions efficiently and cost-effectively to consolidate their books and records, focus on
their core businesses, and manage risk. With our multi-currency capabilities, we support trading activities on a global basis.

In March 2010, we entered into an Information Technology Services Agreement (the “IT Services Agreement”) with International
Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”), under which IBM will provide certain aspects of our information technology infrastructure that are currently provided under the data center outsourcing services agreement with ADP. In addition, the
Company and IBM entered into a business alliance agreement (the







“Alliance Agreement”). The Alliance Agreement provides a structure for IBM and Broadridge to jointly market and sell a complementary suite of services from each party’s
portfolio. The Alliance Agreement will allow Broadridge and IBM to expand their service offerings in the financial services market by providing a comprehensive outsourced solution combining IBM’s technology infrastructure and the Broadridge
securities processing application and operations outsourcing solutions into a jointly-offered set of alliance service offerings.

Our securities processing services represented approximately 28%, 24%, and 27% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Prior year amounts have been adjusted to reflect
the change in reportable segments described in Note 1, “Basis of Presentation” to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These services include the following:

North American Processing Services.We provide a set of sophisticated, multi-currency systems that support real-time
processing of securities transactions in North American equities, options, fixed income securities, and mutual funds. Brokerage Processing Services (“BPS”) is our core multi-currency back-office processing system that supports real-time
processing of transactions in the U.S. markets. BPS handles everything from order management to clearance/settlement and custody, and assists our clients in meeting their regulatory reporting and other back-office requirements. BPS is provided on a
hosted application service provider (“ASP”) basis. We also offer a version of BPS for processing Canadian securities. In addition to our BPS offering, we provide specialized transaction processing tools and services for small to mid-market
financial firms in the U.S. and Canada that are operated on separate Broadridge technology platforms. We also provide state-of-the-art fixed income transaction processing capabilities and support for front-, middle-, and back-office functions. Our
securities processing services can be integrated with our web-based desktop applications, wealth management tools, enterprise workflow, automated inquiry reporting and record-keeping services.

International Processing Services.We provide advanced multi-currency transaction processing solutions for
institutional and retail securities operations, corporate actions, and business process outsourcing services such as data cleansing. Our Global Processing Solution is our integrated delivery of multiple securities processing products and services to
create a comprehensive system that is capable of processing transactions in equity, option, mutual fund, and fixed income securities in established and emerging markets, at any time. Its advanced real-time processes automate the securities
transaction lifecycle from order capture and execution through confirmation, settlement, and accounting.

Operations
Outsourcing Services.We also provide operations outsourcing services relating to a variety of securities clearing, record-keeping, and custody-related functions. Our clients execute and clear their securities transactions and engage
us to perform a number of related administrative back-office functions, such as record-keeping and reconciliations. In this capacity, we are not the broker-dealer of record.

On June 25, 2010, we completed the sale of the contracts of substantially all of the securities clearing clients of our wholly owned subsidiary, Ridge, to Penson Financial Services, Inc.
(“PFSI”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Penson Worldwide, Inc. (“PWI”), pursuant to an asset purchase agreement, dated as of November 2, 2009 (the “Asset Purchase Agreement”). Ridge no longer performs securities
clearing services for correspondent broker-dealers.

Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, we received an aggregate
purchase price of $35.2 million (the “Purchase Price”) from PWI consisted of (a) a five-year subordinated note (the “Seller Note”) payable by PWI in the principal amount of $20.6 million and bearing interest at an annual
rate equal to the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 550 basis points, and (b) 2,455,627 shares of PWI’s common stock (the “PWI Common Stock”), representing 9.5% of the issued and outstanding shares of
PWI’s common stock as of May 31, 2010, at the closing price of PWI’s common stock on June 25, 2010 of $5.95 per share. The Purchase Price was subject to certain adjustments post-closing upon the occurrence of agreed upon events
including adjustments to reflect certain Ridge correspondent clearing contracts.







Concurrent with entering into the Asset Purchase Agreement, we entered into a master
services agreement with PWI (the “Penson Outsourcing Agreement”). Under the Penson Outsourcing Agreement, Ridge will provide securities processing and back-office support services to PFSI. This agreement includes selective processing
services for PFSI’s existing securities processing operations and back-office functions, as well as selective processing services related to the clearing client contracts acquired by PFSI from Ridge.

Broadridge’s Integrated Solutions

Our core systems for processing equity, option, and mutual fund transactions in the U.S. markets can also be combined with our specialized systems for processing fixed income and international securities
transactions. These specialized securities processing services can be fully integrated with operations outsourcing services. In addition, our clients can integrate our securities processing and operations outsourcing services with our other services
including: (i) the processing of trade confirmations and account statements, delivered in paper or electronically; (ii) equity and mutual fund prospectus processing; (iii) automated workflow tools that help our clients streamline
their securities processing and operations activities; and (iv) a full suite of wealth management products including data aggregation tools, end-customer websites, broker desktop, financial planning and modeling tools, performance reporting and
portfolio accounting.

Clients

We serve a large and diverse client base in the financial services industry including retail and institutional brokerage firms, global banks, mutual funds, annuity companies, institutional investors,
specialty trading firms, independent broker-dealers, and clearing firms. We also provide services to corporate issuers.

In
fiscal year 2011, we:



•processed approximately 85% of the outstanding shares in the U.S. in the performance of our proxy services;



•distributed over 1.0 billion investor communications in either paper or electronic form;



•processed on average over 1.5 million equity trades per day and over $4.0 trillion in fixed income trades per day of U.S. and Canadian securities;
and



•provided fixed income trade processing services to 13 of the 20 primary dealers of fixed income securities in the U.S.

In fiscal year 2011, we derived approximately 24% of our consolidated revenues from five clients. Our largest single client accounted for
approximately 5% of our consolidated revenues.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our Investor Communication Solutions business competes with companies that provide investor communication and corporate governance solutions including transfer
agents who handle communication services to registered (non-beneficial) securities holders, proxy advisory firms, proxy solicitation firms and other proxy services providers. We also face competition from numerous firms in the compiling and printing
of transaction confirmations and account statements. Our Securities Processing Solutions business principally competes with brokerage firms that perform their trade processing in-house, and with numerous other outsourcing vendors. Our back-office
support services offered through this segment also compete with very large financial institutions that manage their own back-office record-keeping operations. In many cases, clients engage us only to perform certain functions, such as back-office
processing, and do not outsource their other functions such as clearing operations support that we would also perform for them.







Technology

We have several information processing systems which serve as the core foundation of our technology platform. We leverage these systems in order to provide our services. We are committed to maintaining
extremely high levels of quality service through our skilled technical employees and the use of our technology within an environment that seeks continual improvement.

Our mission-critical applications are designed to provide high levels of availability, scalability, reliability, and flexibility. They operate on industry standard enterprise architecture platforms that
provide high degrees of horizontal and vertical scaling. This scalability and redundancy allows us to provide high degrees of system availability. Our principal data center systems and applications are operated and managed by ADP under a data center
outsourcing services agreement we entered into with ADP in March 2007. Under this agreement, ADP is responsible for hosting a significant portion of our mainframe, midrange, open systems, and networks. Additionally, systems engineering, network
engineering, hardware engineering, network operations, data center operations, application change management, and data center disaster recovery services are managed by ADP. All critical platforms are fully supported under ADP’s disaster
recovery program which provides geographic diversity and precise system, application, data and network recovery. We continue to manage the application development, information technology strategy and system architecture direction and management
functions.

In March 2010, we entered into the IT Services Agreement with IBM, under which IBM will provide certain aspects of
our information technology infrastructure that are currently provided under the data center outsourcing services agreement with ADP.

Under the IT Services Agreement, IBM will provide a broad range of technology services including supporting our mainframe, midrange, open systems, network and data center operations, as well as providing
disaster recovery services. We have the option of incorporating additional services into the agreement over time. The IT Services Agreement expires on June 30, 2022. We have the right to renew it for up to an additional 12-month term. We expect
to complete the migration of our data center processing from ADP to IBM by June 2012. ADP will continue to perform data processing services until the migration to IBM is complete.

We have the right to terminate the IT Services Agreement for several reasons including for cause, for convenience, or in the event of a
change of ownership control of IBM. However, several of the grounds for termination of the IT Services Agreement by Broadridge require us to pay a termination fee to IBM. IBM also has certain termination rights in the event of a material breach of
the Company’s obligations under the IT Services Agreement and its failure to cure.

Most of our systems and applications
process in Tier III+ and Tier IV data centers. Tier III+ and Tier IV data centers employ multiple active power and cooling distribution paths, redundant components, and are capable of providing 99.995% availability. Tier III+ and Tier IV data
centers provide infrastructure capacity and capability to permit any planned activity without disruption to the critical load, and can sustain at least one worst-case, unplanned failure or event with no critical load impact. Our geographically
dispersed processing centers also provide disaster recovery and business continuity processing.

To further demonstrate our
commitment to maintaining the highest levels of quality service and client satisfaction within an environment that fosters continual improvement, our data centers are International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) 9001:2000
certified. In addition, Broadridge’s core applications and facilities for the provision of our proxy, U.S. equity and fixed income securities processing services, and ADP’s data centers are ISO 27001 certified. The IBM data
centers are also ISO 27001 certified. This security standard specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, operating, monitoring, reviewing, maintaining and improving a documented Information Security Management System within the
context of the organization’s overall business risks. It specifies the requirements for the implementation of security controls customized to the needs of individual organizations. This standard addresses confidentiality, access control,
vulnerability, business continuity, and risk assessment.







Product Development.Our products and services are designed with reliability,
availability, scalability, and flexibility so that we can fully meet our clients’ processing needs. These applications are built in a manner which allows us to meet the breadth and depth of requirements of our financial services industry
clients in a highly efficient manner. We continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our existing products and services taking into account input from clients, industry-wide initiatives and regulatory changes affecting our clients.

Intellectual Property.We own registered marks for our trade name and own or have applied for trademark registrations for
many of our services and products. We regard our products and services as proprietary and utilize internal security practices and confidentiality restrictions in contracts with employees, clients, and others for protection. We believe that we hold
all proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business.

Employees

At June 30, 2011, we had approximately 5,900 employees. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements
governing their employment with our company. We believe that our employee relations are good.

Regulation

The securities and financial services industries are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions. As a matter
of public policy, regulatory bodies in the U.S. and the rest of the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of investors participating in those markets.

In the U.S., the securities and financial services industries are subject to regulation under both federal and state laws. At
the federal level, the SEC regulates the securities industry, along with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), the various stock exchanges, and other SROs. Our Investor Communication Solutions and Securities
Processing Solutions businesses are generally not directly subject to federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations that are specifically applicable to financial institutions. However, as a provider of services to financial institutions and
issuers of securities, our services are provided in a manner to assist our clients in complying with the laws and regulations to which they are subject, such as our proxy distribution, processing, and voting services. As a result, the services we
provide may change as applicable SEC, FINRA and SRO regulations are revised. For example, the SEC has in recent years amended the proxy rules to allow public companies to follow a “notice and access” model of proxy material delivery. The
SEC’s notice and access rules have caused us to develop and offer a number of new and additional services.







Certain of the securities processing services we provide may be deemed to be
mission-critical functions of financial institutions that are regulated by one or more member agencies of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”). We are therefore subject to examination by the member agencies of
the FFIEC which are the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and the National Credit Union Association. The
FFIEC conducts periodic reviews of certain of our operations in order to identify existing or potential risks associated with our operations that could adversely affect the financial institutions to which we provide services, evaluates our risk
management systems and controls, and determines our compliance with applicable laws that affect the services we provide to financial institutions. In addition to examining areas such as our management of technology, data integrity, information
confidentiality and service availability, the reviews also assess our financial stability. A sufficiently unfavorable review from the FFIEC could result in our clients not being allowed to use our services. In addition, we engage independent
auditors to review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients and their regulators.

In addition, our operations outsourcing services are subject to regulatory oversight by the SEC and FINRA. The recent
economic turmoil has resulted in increased regulatory scrutiny of the securities industry including the outsourcing of regulatory functions. This oversight could result in the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules with respect to
operations outsourcing. We will monitor any future actions taken by the SEC and FINRA, and if new requirements are enacted, we expect to adapt our business practices and service offerings to assist our clients in fulfilling their obligations under
any new or modified legal requirements and industry practices. In addition, if we expand our outsourcing solutions services into other countries in the future, we will be required to comply with the regulatory controls of each country in which we
conduct business.

Our transfer agency business, Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions, is subject to certain rules and
regulations promulgated by the SEC, including without limitation, with respect to registration with the SEC, annual reporting, examination, internal controls, proper disposal of consumer report information and obligations relating to its
operations. Our transfer agency business has been formally approved by the NYSE to act as a transfer agent or registrar for issuers of NYSE listed securities and is subject to certain NYSE requirements concerning operational
standards. Furthermore, it is also subject to U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and postal regulations, as well as certain provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Federal Trade Commission’s regulations with
respect to maintenance of information security safeguards.







Privacy and Information Security Regulations

The processing of personal information is required to provide our services. Data privacy laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign
countries apply to the collection, transfer, use, storage, and destruction of personal information. In the U.S., the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which applies to financial institutions, applies to certain aspects of our operations outsourcing,
mutual fund processing and transfer agency businesses, and indirectly to our other businesses through contractual commitments with our clients and through industry standards. State privacy and information security laws, which apply to businesses
that collect or process personal information, also apply directly to our businesses. Privacy laws may require notification to affected individuals, state officers, and consumer reporting agencies in the event of a security breach that results in
unauthorized access to or disclosure of certain non-public personal information. These regulations and laws also impose requirements for safeguarding personal information through internal policies and procedures.

Similar data privacy laws related to the collection, transfer, use, and storage of personal information exist outside of the U.S., such
as the European Union’s 95/46 EC Directive of the European Parliament, Canada’s Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, individual European national laws, and data privacy laws of other countries. In some cases, these
laws may be more restrictive and may require different compliance requirements than the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act or the U.S. state privacy laws, and may impose additional duties on companies.

There has been increased public attention regarding the corporate use of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations
intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. The law in these areas is not consistent or settled. While we believe that Broadridge is compliant with its regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political, and
business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings, or other events could expose Broadridge to increased program costs, liability, and possible damage to our reputation.

Other

Our businesses, both directly and indirectly, rely on the Internet and other electronic communications gateways. We intend to expand our
use of these gateways. To date, the use of the Internet has been relatively free from regulatory restraints. However, governmental agencies within the U.S. and other jurisdictions are beginning to address regulatory issues that may arise in
connection with the use of the Internet. Accordingly, new regulations or interpretations may be adopted that constrain our own and our clients’ abilities to transact business through the Internet or other electronic communications gateways.

Seasonality

Processing and distributing proxy materials and annual reports to investors in equity securities and mutual funds comprises a large
portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business. We process and distribute the greatest number of proxy materials and annual reports during our fourth fiscal quarter (the second quarter of the calendar year). The recurring periodic activity
of this business is linked to significant filing deadlines imposed by law on public reporting companies and mutual funds. Historically, this has caused our revenues, operating income, net earnings, and cash flows from operating activities to be
higher in our fourth fiscal quarter than in any other quarter. The seasonality of our revenues makes it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific fiscal quarter and could affect an investor’s ability to
compare our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows on a fiscal quarter-by-quarter basis.

Segment and Geographic Area
Financial Information

You can find financial information regarding our operating segments and our geographic areas in Note
18, “Financial Data By Segment” to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







Available Information

Our headquarters are located at 1981 Marcus Avenue, Lake Success, New York 11042, and our telephone number is (516) 472-5400.

We maintain an Investor Relations website on the Internet atwww.broadridge-ir.com. We make available free of charge, on or through this website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any
amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. To access these, just click on the “SEC Filings” link found on our Investor Relations homepage.
You can also access our Investor Relations website through our main website atwww.broadridge.comby clicking on the “Investor Relations” link, which is located at the top of our homepage. Information contained on our website is not
incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report filed with the SEC.



