ITEM 1.BUSINESS

In this report, “Intuitive Surgical,” “Intuitive,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Intuitive Surgical, Inc. and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries. Intuitive®, Intuitive Surgical®,da Vinci®,da
Vinci S®,da Vinci®SiHD Surgical System™,da Vinci SHD Surgical System®,da Vinci®Si™,da Vinci®Si-e™,EndoWrist®,EndoWrist®One™,EndoWrist®Stapler 45,Single-Site™, DVSTAT,Firefly™ andInSite®are trademarks of Intuitive Surgical, Inc.

COMPANY BACKGROUND

Intuitive designs, manufactures and marketsda
VinciSurgical Systems and related instruments and accessories, which taken together, are advanced surgical systems that we believe represent a new generation of surgery. We believe that this new generation of surgery, which we callda
VinciSurgery, combines the benefits of minimally invasive surgery (“MIS”) for patients with the ease of use, precision and dexterity of open surgery. Ada VinciSurgical System consists of a surgeon’s console, a
patient-side cart and a high performance vision system. Theda VinciSurgical System translates a surgeon’s natural hand movements, which are performed on instrument controls at a console, into corresponding micro-movements of
instruments positioned inside the patient through small incisions, or ports. Theda VinciSurgical System is designed to provide its operating surgeon with intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability and 3-D,
High-Definition (“HD”) vision while simultaneously allowing the surgeon to work through the small ports of MIS.







da VinciSurgery

Open surgery remains the predominant form of surgery and is used in almost every area of the body. However, the large incisions required
for open surgery create trauma to the patient, resulting in longer hospitalization and recovery times, increased hospitalization costs and additional pain and suffering relative to MIS, where MIS is available. Over the past two decades, MIS has
reduced trauma to the patient by allowing selected surgeries to be performed through small ports rather than large incisions, often resulting in shorter recovery times, fewer complications and reduced hospitalization costs. MIS has been widely
adopted for certain surgical procedures, but it has not been widely adopted for complex reconstructive surgeries.

Theda
VinciSurgical System enables surgeons to extend the benefits of MIS to many patients typically receiving open surgery by using computational, robotic and imaging technologies to overcome many of the limitations of both open surgery and
conventional MIS. Surgeons operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a high resolution, 3-D, HD image of the surgical field. This immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. While seated at the
console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the way he or she has been trained to do in open surgery. Our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to
the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon’s hand. In designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy to use.

Our systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons:

Immersive
3-D Visualization.Our vision system includes a 3-D endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. Theda VinciSurgical System provides
visualization of target anatomy with natural depth-of-field, enhanced contrast and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. With our newFireflyFluorescence Imaging
upgrade, surgeons can use specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature beneath tissue surfaces in real-time.

Precise and Tremor-Free Endoscope Control.Our imaging system also incorporates our proprietaryNavigatorcamera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom and
rotate his or her field of vision. Surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left and right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image.

Intuitive Instrument Movements.Our technology is designed to transform the surgeon’s natural hand movements outside the body
into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient’s body. For example, with theda VinciSurgical System, a hand movement to the right outside the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. In contrast,
conventional MIS instruments are long rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. In conventional MIS, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon’s hand and
surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to translate their hand movements in this “backward” environment.

EndoWrist Instruments.Our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in the surgical field analogous to the
motions of a human hand and wrist. Most of our proprietary instruments, which we callEndoWristinstruments, incorporate “wrist” joints that enable surgeons to reach behind tissues and suture with precision, just as they can in open
surgery.

Scaled, Tremor Filtered Instrument Movement.With our technology, the surgeon can also use “motion
scaling,” a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient’s body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient’s body. Motion scaling is designed to
allow precision and control for delicate tasks. In addition, our technology provides the filtering of tremor inherent in a surgeon’s hands.







Improved Surgeon Ergonomics.Theda VinciSurgical System is designed to allow
surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. Theda VinciSurgical System’s design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon’s console. Since theda
VinciSurgical System’s robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue.

Multi-Specialty Surgical Platform.Theda VinciSurgical System is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures, within our targeted gynecologic, urologic,
general surgery, cardiothoracic, head and neck specialties. To date, surgeons have used theda VinciSurgical System to perform dozens of different types of surgical procedures. We do not expect all of these different types of procedures to
become widely adopted—however, they demonstrate the flexibility of theda VinciSurgical System in approaching anatomy.

Products:

da
Vinci Surgical System

We have commercialized three generations ofda VinciSurgical System—theda Vinci
SiSurgical System, theda Vinci SSurgical System and the standardda VinciSurgical System.da VinciSurgical Systems are comprised of the following components:

Surgeon’s Console. Theda VinciSurgical System allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic
console viewing a 3-D image of the surgical field. The surgeon’s fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with the surgeon’s hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. Using electronic hardware, software, algorithms
and mechanics our technology translates the surgeon’s hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of theEndoWristinstruments positioned inside the patient. On our most current system,da Vinci Si, a
second surgeon’s console, may be used in two possible ways: to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. With theda Vinci Si, a surgeon sitting at a second
console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of theda Vinciinstruments during the surgery. In addition, surgeons can control 3-D virtual pointers to augment the dual surgeon experience.

Patient-Side Cart. The patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the
patient. Up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned as appropriate, and then locked into place. At least two arms hold ourEndoWristinstruments, one representing the surgeon’s left hand and one representing the
surgeon’s right hand. A third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. An optional fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a thirdEndoWristinstrument to perform additional tasks. The fourth instrument arm is a standard integrated feature on theda Vinci Siandda Vinci SSurgical Systems and is available as a field upgrade on three-arm standardda
Vinciand three-armda Vinci SSurgical Systems andda Vinci Si-eSurgical Systems.

3-D Vision
System.Our vision system includes ourInSite3-D endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. The resulting 3-D image
has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker and low cross fading. A digital zoom feature in the 3-D, HD vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and thereby reduces interference
between the endoscope and instruments. The 3-D, HD vision is a standard integrated feature onda Vinci Sandda Vinci SiSurgical Systems sold today and as an upgrade option to our existing customers who own ada Vinci SSurgical System without HD vision.

da Vinci Skills Simulator. The simulator is a practice tool which began shipping in
early 2011 for theda Vinci SiSurgical System that gives a user the opportunity to practice his or her facility with the surgeon console controls. The simulator incorporates three-dimensional, physics-based computer simulation







technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment. The user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. Upon
completion of a skills exercise, the simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. The Skills Simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for theda
Vinci SiSurgical System. Mostda VinciSkills Simulators have been sold in connection with newda Vinci SiSurgical System sales.

Firefly Fluorescence Imaging. In the first quarter of 2011, we launched ourFireflyFluorescence Imaging product (“Firefly”) for use with theda Vinci SiSurgical
System in the United States (“U.S.”) and Europe. This new imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specializedda Vincicamera head, endoscope and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature in
three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy.Fireflykits configured into newda Vincisystem sales are included in systems revenue, whileFireflykits sold separately for existing systems are included
in instruments and accessories revenue. Adoption ofFireflyis progressing, with its primary utilization in partial nephrectomy procedures.Fireflyis also being used in certain gynecology and general surgery cases.

Instruments and Accessories

EndoWrist Instruments. We manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate wrist joints for natural dexterity, with tips customized for various surgical procedures.EndoWristinstruments are offered in a variety of sizes, primarily 5mm and 8mm diameter sizes. At their tips, the variousEndoWristinstruments include forceps, scissors, electrocautery, scalpels and other surgical tools that are familiar to the
surgeon from open surgery and conventional MIS. A variety ofEndoWristinstruments are selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. OurEndoWristinstruments are sterilizable and most are reusable for a defined number of
procedures. A programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the system and instruments work together. In addition, the chip will not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed
number of procedures so that its performance meets specifications during each procedure. We typically develop new types ofEndoWristinstruments to support additional types of surgical procedures.

da Vinci Single-Site. da Vinci Single-Site

da Vinci Si

da Vinci Single-Site

da Vinci Single-Site

da Vinci Single-Site

da Vinci Single-Site

da Vinci
Single-Site

da Vinci Single-Site

da Vinci Single-Site

da Vinci Single-Site

da Vinci Single-Site

EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer. In December 2011, we received FDA clearance for ourEndoWrist OneVessel Sealer. TheEndoWrist OneVessel Sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument
intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7 mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the







jaws of the instrument. This instrument enablesda Vinci Sisurgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits ofda Vincisurgery. This instrument is designed
to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures. Clinical response to theEndoWristOneVessel Sealer has been encouraging, with positive commentary on precision, articulation,
vessel sealing quality and thermal spread. We expect applications for theEndoWrist OneVessel Sealer to be centered on general surgery and gynecologic oncology procedures. We are still in the early stages of introducingEndoWrist OneVessel Sealer and are not able to predict the extent to which theEndoWrist OneVessel Sealer may be adopted.

EndoWrist Stapler 45 Instrument. In October 2012, we received FDA clearance for ourEndoWrist Stapler 45Instrument with
Blue and Green 45 mm reloads. TheEndoWrist Stapler 45is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection and/or creation of anastomoses in general, gynecologic and urologic surgery. This instrument enables operators of theda Vinci Sito precisely position and fire the stapler. We expect its initial surgical use to be directed towards colorectal procedures. We intend to rollout theEndoWrist Stapler 45to limited number of customers in early 2013 and
slowly to a broader set of customers later in 2013. As we have not begun sellingEndoWrist Stapler 45,we are not able to predict the extent to which theEndoWrist Stapler 45may be adopted.

Accessory Products. We sell various accessory products which are used in conjunction with theda VinciSurgical System as
surgical procedures are performed. Accessory products include sterile drapes used to ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products such as replacement 3-D stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other items that facilitate use of
the system.

Business Strategy

Our objective is to bring the benefits of MIS to as many patients as possible through the use of computer aided robotic technologies. Our priorities to accomplish this are as follows:



1.Patient Value.We believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as:Patient Value = Procedure Efficacy/Invasiveness. Hereprocedure efficacyis a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease andinvasivenessis how disruptive and painful the treatment is itself. When the patient value of ada Vinciprocedure is deemed
higher than alternate treatment options, patients may seek out surgeons and hospitals that offer that specificda Vinciprocedure, potentially resulting in a local market share shift for the specific treatment. Adoption occurs procedure by
procedure, and is driven by the relative patient value ofda Vinciprocedures compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state. We believe most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more
efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. Our goal is to provide products to surgeons who in turn provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options.



2.Surgeon Value.We train surgeons on the use of ourda VinciSurgical System and assist them in building their practices by their delivery of superior
patient value. We seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy to use products.



3.Hospital Value.We assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value usingda Vincithereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs
through lower complication rates and reduced length of patient stay.

Given the priorities above, our strategy
is to improve our candidate surgical procedures in two basic ways:



1.Convert Candidate Open Procedures to da VinciSurgery.We believe that our technology has the potential to convert a significant percentage of our
targeted open procedures toda VinciSurgery.



2.Facilitate Difficult MIS Operations.We believe that several surgical procedures that are seldom performed today using conventional MIS
techniques can be performed more routinely usingda Vinci







Surgery. Some procedures have been adopted for MIS techniques but are extremely difficult and are currently performed by a limited number of highly skilled surgeons. We believe ourda
VinciSurgical System will enable more surgeons at more institutions to perform such procedures.

Clinical Applications

We are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and
applications forda Vincisurgery—an important part of our creative process. We primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value, surgeon value and hospital
value. We currently focus on five surgical specialties: urologic surgery, gynecologic surgery, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. Key procedures which we are focused on includeda VinciProstatectomy
(“dVP”),da VinciHysterectomy (“dVH”),da VinciCholecystectomy,da VinciColon and Rectal procedures,da VinciPartial Nephrectomy,da VinciMyomectomy,da VinciSacrocolpopexy,da
VinciMitral Valve Repair,da VinciLobectomy, andda VinciTransoral Robotic Surgery (for cancers of the throat). In 2012, we estimate that over 80% of the procedures performed were in the urologic and gynecologic
specialties. Representative surgical applications are described below.

Urologic Surgery

Prostatectomy.Radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate
cancer. The standard approach to removal of the prostate has been via an open surgical procedure. The conventional laparoscopic approach is an option, but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. Theda VinciSurgical System has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique.

Partial Nephrectomy.Partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor.) Partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in
patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. Excludingda Vincisurgery, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy, and hand assisted laparoscopy, which
is a hybrid of open and laparoscopic technique. Surgeons have reported that theda VinciSurgical System’s capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the
benefits of MIS to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients.

Pyeloplasty.Pyeloplasty is the surgical
reconstruction or revision of the renal pelvis to drain and decompress the kidney. In nearly all cases, the goal of pyeloplasty surgery is to relieve an uretero-pelvic junction obstruction. Excludingda Vincisurgery, there are two common
surgical approaches to performing pyeloplasty: open surgical technique and laparoscopy. Surgeons have reported that theda VinciSurgical System’s capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a
minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of MIS to a broader range of pyeloplasty patients.

Gynecologic
Surgery

Hysterectomy.Removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and
is performed for a variety of underlying benign and malignant conditions. Hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy), a vaginal approach, or MIS techniques, which include both laparoscopic and robotic approaches. Despite the
availability of non-robotic MIS approaches to hysterectomy, most hysterectomies performed prior toda Vincisurgery were open surgeries.da Vincihas enabled a large number of women to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an
alternative to an open hysterectomy.

Myomectomy.Myomectomy, or removal of a myoma/fibroid, is a surgical procedure
performed when uterine preservation is sought, typically to preserve fertility. Due to the substantial suturing required for this procedure, the standard surgical approach remains an open incision. There are some highly skilled







gynecological laparoscopists who perform laparoscopic myomectomies, but laparoscopic myomectomy has remained a minority of myomectomies performed. Surgeons have reported that theda VinciSurgical System’s capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of MIS to a broader range of myomectomy patients.

Sacrocolpopexy.The abdominal (open) sacrocolpopexy is one of the most successful operations for vaginal vault prolapse.
Sacrocolpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). A sacrocolpopexy can be performed using conventional laparoscopic technique, however, it is generally described as difficult and
cumbersome to perform. Surgeons have reported that theda VinciSurgical System’s capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of MIS to a
broader range of sacrocolpopexy patients.

Endometriosis Resection. Endometriosis is a gynecological medical condition
in which cells from the lining of the uterus (endometrium) migrate outside the uterus. Endometriosis can range from mild to severe, and in the worst cases, can infiltrate bowel, ureters, ovaries and other organs in the female pelvis. Because of the
diffuse and extensive nature of severe endometriosis, it can be difficult to treat either pharmaceutically or surgically. A successful resection of endometriosis involves both seeing lesions and their careful resection. Surgeons have reported thatda Vincisurgery may enable a larger number of women with endometriosis to receive an effective MIS approach to their endometriosis resection.

Cardiothoracic Surgery

Mitral Valve Repair.When patients
are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. Mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of
reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient’s post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen. Since mitral valve repairs are considered to be more
technically challenging than mitral valve replacements, they are only performed approximately 50% of the time. Several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when usingda Vinci.

Thoracic Surgery.Conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and
video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. Procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision and esophagectomy. Many thoracic procedures remain open procedures.
Surgeons have reported that the use of theda VinciSurgery System in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer MIS approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients.

General Surgery

Cholecystectomy.Cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of the gall bladder, is a commonly performed general surgery procedure. Cholecystectomy is the primary method for treating of
gallstones and other gall bladder diseases. Most cholecystectomies are performed using multi-port MIS techniques, although some surgeons choose to perform cholecystectomy using manual single-port instrumentation. With the 2011 European
introduction ofda VinciSingle Site instruments followed by the U.S. introduction in 2012, Single-Site robotic cholecystectomies are now being performed. Usingda VinciSingle Site instruments, many of the technical challenges of
manual single-port MIS are reduced as surgeons benefit from additional precision, control and improved ergonomics. Multi-port robotic cholecystectomies are also being performed.

Colorectal Surgery.These procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular
the rectum or colon. Common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection and abdominoperineal resection. Conventional laparoscopy is not widely employed to treat these types of diseases, due to their high
degree of difficulty. Surgeons have







reported that the use of theda VinciSurgery System in colorectal surgery has enabled them to offer MIS approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients.

Gastric Bypass.A growing body of literature is pointing to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its
secondary effects, such as diabetes. Laparoscopic roux-en-Y gastric bypass (“LRYGB”) is the most commonly performed surgical procedure for morbid obesity in the U.S. The LRYGB can be a technically challenging procedure because of the
suturing, stapling and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. Surgeons using theda VinciSurgical System have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to LRYGB.

Head and Neck Surgery

Transoral Surgery.Head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation, or a combination of both. Surgical resection performed by an open approach may
require a “jaw-splitting” mandibulotomy. This procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. MIA approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated
by conventional endoscopic tools. Chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions however literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients’ ability to speak and swallow normally. Surgeons
have reported thatda VinciTransoral Surgery allows them to treat cancers occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line-of-sight limitations of conventional trans-oral
surgery.

Thyroidectomy.Thyroid cancer is most commonly treated by thyroidectomy, the removal of all or part of the
thyroid gland. Complete resection of the cancer and surrounding gland is required for proper oncologic outcomes. Open surgery is an effective surgery in terms of oncologic control and has low complication rates. However, it leaves a prominent neck
scar. Surgeons, predominantly in Asia, are now using theda VinciSurgical System to perform thyroidectomies entering the body from the axilla (armpit) in order to avoid the visible scar on the neck. At this time, the procedure is not
within the indications for use for theda VinciSystem in the U.S.

Clinical Summary

We believe there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with theda VinciSurgical System and we work closely
with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in whichda Vincimay bring value. As of December 31, 2012, we had an installed base of 2,585da VinciSurgical Systems, including 1,878 in the U.S., 416 in Europe,
and 291 in the rest of the world. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 450,000 surgical procedures of various types in hospitals throughout the world. Of thoseda
Vinciprocedures performed in 2012, we estimate that approximately 184,000 were dVH procedures and approximately 109,000 were dVP procedures.

We believe that the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation against PSA screening, as well as suggested changes in treatment pattern for low risk prostate cancer away from definitive treatment
have led to a decline in our dVP business. We believe the reduction in dVP procedures in the U.S. primarily reflects pressures from reduced levels of prostate-specific antigen (“PSA”) testing and increased use of non-surgical disease
management. dVPs and total procedures have declined in Europe from the first quarter of 2012 to the second, third and fourth quarters of 2012, reflecting seasonality, austerity measures, PSA testing, non-surgical disease management trends, and other
Company specific matters.







Sales and Customer Support

Sales Model

We provide our products through a direct sales
organization in the U.S., most of Western Europe excluding Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece and, beginning with our acquisition of our Korean distributor on January 11, 2012, Korea. Beginning in 2013, we will also provide our product through a
direct sales organization in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Hungary, whereas prior to 2013, these markets were served by a distributor. In the remainder of our world markets, we provide our products through distributors. No one customer accounted
for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.

Our direct sales organization is
essentially split into a capital sales team, responsible for sellingda VinciSurgical Systems, and a clinical sales team, responsible for supportingda VinciSurgical System use in surgical procedures performed at our hospital
accounts. The initialda VinciSurgical System sale into an account is viewed as a major capital equipment purchase by our customers and typically has a lengthy sales cycle that can be affected by the timing of their budgeting cycles. Capital
sales activities include educating surgeons and hospital staff across multiple surgical specialties on the benefits ofda VinciSurgery and the clinical applications that our technology enables. We also train our sales organization to educate
hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including clinical benefits ofda VinciSurgery, reductions in complications and length of stay, and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction and
volume. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 92 capital sales employees, compared to 89 as of December 31, 2011.

A portion of our customers acquireda VinciSurgical Systems through a capital lease or operating lease with third-party leasing companies. In these instances, we typically sell theda VinciSurgical System to the hospital or leasing company, and the hospital enters into an independent arrangement with the leasing company. We treat these leasing transactions the same as sales transactions for purposes of recognizing revenue for the
sale. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, approximately 14% of theda VinciSurgical Systems purchased were leased through third-party leasing companies at the time of purchase.

Our clinical sales team works on site at the hospitals, interacting with surgeons, operating room staff, and hospital administrators to
develop and sustain successful robotics surgery programs. They assist the hospital in identifying surgeons who have an interest in robotic surgery deliveringda Vinci’sbenefits. Our clinical sales team provides the current clinical
information on robotic surgery practices and new product applications to the hospital teams. Our clinical sales organization has generally grown in relation to growth in the installed base ofda Vincisystems and the total number of
procedures performed. As of December 31, 2012, we had 685 clinical sales employees, compared to 556 as of December 31, 2011. This organization is expected to grow as our business expands.

Our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. Orders received are typically
shipped within one business day. Direct customers who purchase a newda VinciSurgical System typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories within one month of receiving their system.

Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our sales ofda VinciSurgical Systems have tended to be heaviest
during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first and third fiscal quarters and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter. In addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and
higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarter. Procedures treating benign conditions are typically higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter. Benign procedures represented a higher percentage of our total
procedures in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. Timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth impact the timing of instrument and accessory and capital purchases.







Customer Support and Training Programs

We have a network of field service engineers across the U.S., Europe and Asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around
the globe. This infrastructure of service and support specialists offer a full complement of services, including 24/7 support, installation, repair and maintenance for our customers. We generate service revenue by providing these services to our
customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs.

We provide basic system training that
teaches the fundamental operating principles of theda VinciSurgical System to surgeons, surgical assistants and operating room nurses. We have established training centers where initial system training and ongoing surgical procedural
training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. Surgeons may also practice their robotic surgery technique using ourda Vinciskills simulator. In addition, we help facilitate the proctoring of surgeons who are new toda
VinciSurgery by experiencedda VinciSurgical System users. Proctors provide training to other surgeons on how to perform certain surgical procedures withda VinciSurgical Systems.

Research and Development

We focus our research and development efforts on providing our customers with new products and product improvements that enable them to
perform MIS procedures with less difficulty. We employ research and development and engineering staff responsible for product design and engineering. We invested $170.0 million, $140.2 million, and $116.0 million of research and development expenses
for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. This investment is applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time.

We establish strategic alliances with other medical device and technology based companies to complement our research and development
effort. To date, these alliances have taken several forms, including cooperation in the areas of product development, training, procedure development and marketing activities. We have formed alliances with several companies, including, but not
limited to, Erbe Elektromedizin GMBH, Johnson & Johnson, Olympus/Gyrus, Novadaq Technologies, Inc. and Mimic Technologies, Inc.

Manufacturing

We
manufacture ourda VinciSurgical Systems at our facility in Sunnyvale, California. We manufacture ourEndoWristinstruments at our Sunnyvale facility and Mexicali, Mexico facility.

We purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality
specifications and processes. Some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved
supply source for us among other sources). We purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods.

Competition

We consider
our primary competition to be existing open surgery, conventional MIS in complex cases, drug therapies, radiation treatment and emerging interventional surgical approaches. Our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality
and reliability as well as educating hospitals, surgeons and patients on the demonstrated results associated withda VinciSurgery and its value relative to other techniques. We also face competition from several companies that are developing
new approaches and products for the MIS market. We believe that many are focused on adding capability to manual MIS systems. Because many of these developments are aimed at MIS, we believe that ourda VinciSurgical System may prove
complementary to some these new technologies.







Moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g.,Single-SiteTM, stapler, and vessel sealer) to our offerings that through now have largely been limited to the domains of open surgery and/or conventional MIS, we face greater competition from larger and well
established companies such as Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc and Covidien.

Furthermore, a number of companies are using or
planning to use robots and computers in surgery, including but not limited to SOFAR S.p.A., Eterne, IMRIS, and Titan Medical, Inc. Companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical
robotics and become a competitor. In addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. Our revenues may be adversely impacted if our competitors develop and introduce
products that compete in our markets.

Intellectual Property

We place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright, and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes.

We generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to
protect our proprietary technology. For example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. We also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various
third parties to supplement our own large and robust patent portfolio.

As of December 31, 2012, we held ownership or
exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 1,300 U.S. and foreign patents and more than 1,100 U.S. and foreign patent applications. We intend to continue filing new patent applications in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for
our technology.

Patents are granted for finite terms and eventually expire. Upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a
patent enter the public domain. While our patents are an important element of our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent.

Government Regulation

Our products and operations are subject to extensive
and rigorous regulation by the FDA, the State of California and countries or regions in which we market our products. In addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards which govern the
design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use and disposal of our products. We must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate compliance to these with the
development and regulatory documentation for our products. Failure to meet these standards could limit the ability to market our products in those regions which require compliance to such standards. Examples of groups of such standards are
electrical safety standards such as those of the International Electrotechnical Commission (e.g. IEC 60601-ss series of standards), composition standards such as the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) and Waste Electrical and
Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Directives.

United States

In the U.S. the FDA regulates our products.

The FDA regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing, distribution and service of medical devices in the U.S. to ensure that medical products
distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. In addition, the FDA regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the U.S. to international markets and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad.







Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FFDCA”), medical devices are
classified into one of three classes—Class I, Class II or Class III—depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Our current products are Class II
medical devices.

Class II devices are those which are subject to general controls and most require premarket demonstration of
adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the FDA, and clearance by the FDA. Premarket review and clearance by the FDA for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process.
For most Class II devices, the manufacturer must submit to the FDA a premarket notification submission, demonstrating that the device is “substantially equivalent” in intended use and technology to a “predicate device” that is
either:



1.a device that has grandfather marketing status because it was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976, the date upon which the Medical Device Amendments of 1976
were enacted, or



2.a Class I or II device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process.

If the FDA agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the
device in the U.S. The FDA has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission or 30 days for “special” 510(k) submissions which have a more restrictive scope and generally specific or very limited changes to a legally marketed
device. As a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. The FDA may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. If the FDA determines that the device, or its intended use, is
not “substantially equivalent,” the FDA may deny the request for clearance. Although unlikely for the types of products marketed by ISI, the FDA may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into Class III, and the device
sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-marketing approval (“PMA”) requirements.

After a device receives FDA
510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a PMA application approval. The FDA
requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA can review any such decision. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance for a particular change, the FDA may
retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease U.S. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is obtained.







or Untitled Letters, which are notices of intended enforcement actions against the manufacturer. These enforcement actions could include legal actions, including fines and total shutdown of
production facilities, seizure of product, prohibition on export or import and criminal prosecution. Such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the U.S., and may adversely affect the reputation of the
manufacturer and the product. In the U.S., FDA inspections usually occur every two years. A recent inspection of the Company’s facilities occurred in July 2010 and the FDA issued a Form FDA 483 listing observations relating to complaint
handling and manufacturing/inspection handling. We responded to each observation with proposed corrective actions. No further enforcement action was taken or threatened by the FDA. The FDA audited our Sunnyvale headquarters in January 2012 and has
not issued a Form FDA 483 as a result of this most recent audit. We cannot assure that the FDA will not find other deficiencies in our compliance with the QSR and other postmarket regulations. In particular, the failure to adequately correct
observations from a previous inspection frequently results in a Warning Letter. Our wholly owned subsidiary in Mexicali, Mexico has a proper Establishment Registration but has never been FDA inspected.

To greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include
periodic inspections, inspections by third party auditors, and specialized documentation. Failure to meet all the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support and receive reimbursement for the use of our
products in these countries.

In addition to the above, we may seek to legally use products that have not yet been cleared or
approved for particular indications in clinical studies or trials in the U.S. or other countries. Additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the
countries or regions in which they are conducted. Such use may also be regulated by local and institutional requirements and policy generally including review by an ethics committee or institutional review board (IRB). Failure to comply with all
regulations governing such studies could subject the company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties,
and other actions. Without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, to secure reimbursement or demonstrate other requirements. We cannot assure
that access to clinical investigators, sites and subjects, documentation and data will be available on the terms and timeframes necessary.

Products manufactured outside the U.S. by or for us are subject to U.S. Customs and FDA inspection upon entry into the U.S. We must demonstrate compliance of such products to U.S. regulations and
carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. Failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and
lead to shortages and delays.

California Regulation

The State of California requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and until 2012 conducted periodic inspection of
medical device manufacturers. Our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in July 2011 and were found to be in compliance. In accordance with the State of California regulations, the license to manufacture is renewed annually with
any updated manufacturing information. Although the State of California has announced suspension of routine periodic inspections, there can be no assurance the State of California will not resume such inspections or conduct such inspections under
specific circumstances which are not yet known.







Foreign Regulation

In order for us to market our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and
quality system regulations in other countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Some countries have regulatory review processes which
are substantially longer than U.S. processes. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products
could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines.

da Vinci S

da Vinci

da Vinci

da Vinci Si

Commercialization of medical devices in Europe is regulated by the European Union (“EU”). The EU presently requires that all
medical products bear the Conformité Européenne (“CE”) mark, for compliance with the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC) as amended. The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of
safety and performance mandated in applicable European medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the EU and those affiliated which accept the CE mark. The CE mark is also recognized in many
countries outside of the EU, such as Australia, and can assist in the clearance process. In order to affix the CE mark on products, a recognized European Notified Body must certify a manufacturer’s quality system and design dossier for
compliance with international and European requirements. We have received authorization from DGM Denmark A/S, a recognized European Notified Body and part of Nemko Presafe A/S to affix the CE mark to ourda VinciSurgical System andEndoWristinstruments and accessories. To maintain authorization to apply the CE mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. As of 2012, Notified Bodies, including DGM, are also required to conduct
periodic unannounced inspections.

If we modify our existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to
apply for authorization to affix the CE mark to such products. We do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the CE mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards
required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. If we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the CE mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the EU or those whose marketing
authorizations are based on the CE Mark.

Regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or
clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. These regulations typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval
in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign







country in which we market our products, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. In addition, local regulations may apply which govern the use of our products
and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. All such regulations are revised from time to time and in general are increasing in complexity, and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing
required. There can be no assurance the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. There are further regulations governing the importation,
marketing, sale, distribution, use and service as well as the removal and disposal of medical devices. Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions, fines and prevent us from marketing our products in these regions.

Third-Party Coverage and Reimbursement

On October 1, 2008, CMS and NCHS issued a new family of ICD-9-CM
procedure codes for “Robotically Assisted Procedures.” For laparoscopic procedures completed with theda VinciSurgical System, U.S. hospitals are expected to report the primary surgical procedure code, along with ICD-9-CM
17.42, to describe a laparoscopic robotic assisted procedure. The purpose of the ICD-9-CM family of procedure codes, 17.4X, is to gather data on robotic assisted surgical procedures. A surgical procedure, completed with or without
robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the clinically relevant MS-DRG.

Governments and insurance companies carefully
review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. Reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, confidential contract terms, and other
factors. Because both hospitals and physicians may receive the same reimbursement for their respective services, with or without robotics, regardless of actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care and is unrelated to
the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products.

Domestic institutions typically bill for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products to various third-party payors, such as
Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. Because ourda VinciSurgical System has been cleared for commercial distribution in the U.S. by the FDA, coverage and reimbursement by payers are generally
determined by the medical necessity of the primary surgical procedure. We believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance
companies for appropriately selected patients. If hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors’ policies do not cover surgical
procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business.







In countries outside the U.S., reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including
governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. In most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. Additionally, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain
European countries. To effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek international reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. In April 2012, radical prostatectomy
utilizing thedaVinciSurgical System was approved for reimbursement in Japan. We intend to seek reimbursement approvals from the Japanese government for additional procedures performed with our products. The timing of these approvals can
vary significantly, and could significantly impact our ability to commercialize our products in Japan. In some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such “co-pay” practices are not common in
most countries.

In March 2010, the U.S. President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the
Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, “the PPACA”), which makes changes that are expected to significantly impact healthcare providers, insurers, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. One of
the principal aims of the PPACA is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million Americans who are currently uninsured. The consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the sales of our products are currently
unknown. The PPACA contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund this coverage expansion, including, but not limited to new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device
manufacturers. Beginning in 2013, medical device manufacturers will have to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% on certain U.S. medical device revenues. We estimate that under this provision, the Company will pay an excise tax of approximately
1% of total global revenue. The tax will be included as a cost of revenue and a reduction of product gross margin.

The PPACA
also has provisions to study the comparative effectiveness of health care treatments and strategies. It remains unclear how this research will influence future Medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions, as well as influence other third-party
payor coverage and reimbursement policies. As Congress and state governments determine how to implement the PPACA, the consequences of the PPACA on the medical device industry and the sale of our products are currently unknown. The PPACA, as well as
other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The taxes imposed by PPACA and the expansion in the government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry
may result in decreased profits, lower reimbursement from payors for procedures that use our products and/or reduced procedural volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures
performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would affect our ability to generate the revenues necessary to support our business.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2012, we had 2,362 employees, 310 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 778 in manufacturing and service and 1,274 in marketing, sales, and administrative activities. None of our employees are covered by a
collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Access to Reports

We make our periodic and current reports, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after such material is







electronically filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com and the reports are filed under “SEC Filings,” on the
Company—Investor Relations portion of our website. Periodically, we webcast Company announcements, product launch events and executive presentations which can be viewed via our Investor Relations pages on our website. Additionally, we provide
notifications of our material news including SEC filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our Investor Relations website. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other
report or document we file and any references to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.

We
operate our business as one segment as defined by generally accepted accounting principles. Our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are discussed in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report.

Intuitive Surgical, Inc. was founded in 1995. We are a Delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1266 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086. Our telephone number is
(408) 523-2100, and our website address iswww.intuitivesurgical.com.



