ITEM 1. BUSINESS

COMPANY BACKGROUND

Intuitive Surgical, Inc. was founded in 1995. We are a Delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at
1266 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086. Our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address iswww.intuitivesurgical.com. In this report, “Intuitive Surgical,” “we,” “us,” and
“our” refer to Intuitive Surgical, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.Intuitive®,Intuitive Surgical®, da Vinci®, da Vinci S®, da Vinci®S HD Surgical System™,da Vinci®Si™, EndoWrist®, andInSite®are trademarks of Intuitive Surgical, Inc.

We design, manufacture and marketda VinciSurgical Systems,EndoWristinstruments, and surgical accessories, which we believe
are enabling a new generation of surgery. We believe that this new generation of surgery, which we callda Vincisurgery, is a significant advancement similar in scope to previous generations of surgery—open surgery and minimally
invasive surgery, or conventional MIS. Ourda VinciSurgical Systems consist of a surgeon’s console, or consoles, a patient-side cart and a high performance vision system. By placing computer-enhanced technology between the surgeon and
patient, we believe that our products enable surgeons to perform advanced surgery in a manner never before experienced. Theda VinciSurgical System controls Intuitive Surgical endoscopic instruments, including rigid endoscopes, blunt and
sharp endoscopic dissectors, scissors, scalpels, forceps/pickups, needle holders, endoscopic retractors, basic and advanced electrocautery instruments, ultrasonic cutters, and accessories during a wide range of surgical procedures. Theda
VinciSurgical System translates the surgeon’s natural hand movements performed on instrument controls at a surgeon’s console into corresponding micro-movements of instruments positioned inside the patient through small incisions, or
ports.







Ourda VinciSurgical System provides the surgeon with the intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability and high definition 3-D vision, while simultaneously
allowing the surgeon to work through the small ports of MIS. Theda VinciSurgical System is used to perform surgery across multiple surgical specialties, including urology, gynecology, cardiothoracic surgery, transoral surgery, and
general surgery.

In March 1997, surgeons using an early prototype of our technology performed the firstda Vincisurgery on humans. In the second quarter of 1999, we began sellingda Vinciproducts and services outside the United States. In July 2000, we obtained clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to market our products in the
United States for use in general laparoscopic procedures.

The following table summarizes our FDA clearances to date:



•July 2000—General laparoscopic procedures



•March 2001—Non-cardiac thoracoscopic procedures



•May 2001—Prostatectomy procedures



•November 2002—Cardiotomy procedures



•July 2004—Cardiac revascularization procedures



•March 2005—Urologic surgical procedures



•April 2005—Gynecologic surgical procedures



•June 2005—Pediatric surgical procedures



•December 2009—Transoral Otolaryngologic surgical procedures

In January 2006 we began selling theda Vinci SSurgical System in the United States and Europe. In March 2008 we received clearance
in the United States to market our system-held cardiac stabilizer and permission to remove the warning in our labeling regarding system use in non-arrested heart procedures. During first quarter of 2009, we received clearance to market ourda
Vinci SiSurgical System in the United States and Europe.

In November 2009, we received regulatory (Shonin) approval from
the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare (MHLW) for ourda Vinci SSystem in Japan. With this approval, we are now focusing on meeting various trade and importation requirements necessary for commercialization and to
obtain appropriate reimbursement rates for severalda Vinciprocedures in Japan. We have a separate independent distribution partner in Japan who will be responsible for selling, marketing, and servicing our products in Japan.

As of December 31, 2009, we had an installed base of 1,395da VinciSurgical Systems. During the year ended
December 31, 2009 surgeons using our technology completed approximately 205,000 surgical procedures of various types in major hospitals throughout the world. Out of thoseda Vinciprocedures performed in 2009, approximately 90,000 wereda VinciProstatectomy (dVP) procedures and approximately 69,000 wereda VinciHysterectomy (dVH) procedures.

We operate our business as one segment as defined by generally accepted accounting principles. Our financial results for the three years ended December 31, 2009 are discussed in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report.

da VinciSurgery

Open surgery remains the
predominant form of surgery and is still used in almost every area of the body. However, the large incisions required for open surgery create trauma to the patient, resulting in longer hospitalization and recovery times, increased hospitalization
costs, and additional pain and suffering. Over the







past two decades, MIS has reduced trauma to the patient by allowing selected surgeries to be performed through small ports rather than large incisions, often resulting in shorter recovery times,
fewer complications and reduced hospitalization costs. MIS has been widely adopted for certain surgical procedures, but it has not been widely adopted within complex surgical procedures.

Theda VinciSurgical System enables surgeons to overcome many of the shortcomings of both open surgery and conventional MIS and
enables a new generation of surgery,da VinciSurgery. Surgeons operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a high resolution, 3-D HD image of the surgical field. This immersive visualization connects the surgeon to the surgical
field and the instruments. While seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, just as he or she has been trained to do in open surgery. Our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion
in the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremor inherent in a surgeon’s hand. In designing our products, we have focused on making our technology as simple as possible to use.

Our products are designed to convert a broad range of open surgical and conventional MIS procedures toda Vincisurgery. Theda
VinciSurgical System is designed to enable surgeons to improve surgical outcomes while providing patients with the benefits of MIS. We believe that these advantages have begun to facilitate a fundamental change in surgery and that our
technology overcomes many of the limitations of existing MIS tools and techniques in the following ways:

Immersive 3-D
Visualization.Our vision system includes a 3-D endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors. Our vision system is designed to give surgeons the perception that their hands are immersed in the surgical
field even though they are outside the patient’s body. As a result, we believe that surgeons no longer feel disconnected from the surgical field and the instruments, as they currently do with conventional MIS. In addition, the3-D High
Definitionvision system with advanced image processing including edge enhancement and noise reduction provides a brighter and sharper image than any other 3-D endoscope vision system currently available. Theda VinciSurgical System
provides visualization of the target anatomy with natural depth-of-field, enhanced contrast and magnification for more accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. Improved visualization also enables surgeons to perform delicate
tissue handling and dissection with added precision—even in confined spaces. This precision may help the surgeon avoid trauma to surrounding structures and tissues such as the neurovascular bundle located near the prostate.

Precise and Tremor-free Endoscope Control.TheInSitesystem also incorporates our proprietaryNavigatorcamera control
technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. Endoscope control, provided through the hand controls and foot pedals, provides near-seamless transition between views. Surgeons can reposition
the surgical camera in an instant with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left and right by moving their hands in the desired direction while maintaining a stable image. Repositioning of the surgeon’s head at the console does not affect
image quality as with other 3-D display systems. The combination of these features offers what we believe is the most advanced surgical vision system available today.

Intuitive Instrument Movements.Our technology is designed to directly transform the surgeon’s natural hand movements outside the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the
patient’s body. For example, with theda VinciSurgical System, a hand movement to the right outside the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. In contrast, conventional MIS instruments are essentially
long rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. In conventional MIS, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon’s hand and surgeons must adjust their
hand-eye coordination to translate their hand movements in this “backward” environment.



•EndoWrist Instruments Provide Natural Dexterity and Range of Motion.Our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion in
the surgical field analogous to the motions of a human hand and wrist and enable more widespread use of advanced techniques as well as a reduced learning curve







when compared to conventional MIS techniques. The surgeon controls the instrument movements from the surgeon’s console using natural hand and wrist movements. Our proprietary instruments,
which we callEndoWristinstruments, incorporate “wrist” joints that enable surgeons to reach behind tissues and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery. Added instrument range-of-motion enhances access and safety
while operating in the confined space of the closed chest, abdomen or pelvis.EndoWristjoints are located near the tips of all of our instruments. Conventional MIS instruments provide surgeons less flexibility, dexterity and range of motion
than their own hands provide in open surgical procedures. For example, conventional MIS instruments in widespread use today do not have joints near their tips, and cannot replicate a surgeon’s hand and wrist movements to perform manipulations,
such as reaching behind tissue, suturing and fine dissection.



•More Precise, Tremor-reduced Movement.With our technology, the surgeon can also use “motion scaling,” a feature that translates, for
example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient’s body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient’s body. Motion scaling is designed to allow greater precision than is normally
achievable in either open surgery or conventional MIS. In addition, our technology provides the filtering of tremor inherent in a surgeon’s hands.

Superior Surgeon Ergonomics.Theda VinciSurgical System is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which is not only more comfortable, but also may be
clinically advantageous due to reduced surgeon fatigue. Theda VinciSurgical System’s design provides natural hand to eye alignment at the surgeon’s console, which provides improved ergonomics over traditional laparoscopic
technology. Since theda VinciSurgical System’s robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon assistance required and reduced surgeon fatigue and also potentially reduced abdominal wall torque.



•Improved Ease-of-Use shortens learning curves.We have designed our products to make them as simple as possible to use, even though the
underlying technology is inherently complex. We believe that tissue manipulations using our products are as natural as hand movements in open surgery. In our experience, based on feedback from surgeons who have performed thousands of procedures,
surgeons can learn to manipulate our instruments with less training than is typically required for the surgeon to become skilled in conventional MIS. The time required to learn to perform surgical procedures using theda VinciSurgical System
varies depending on the complexity of the procedure and the surgical team’s experience with MIS techniques.



•Multi-Specialty Surgical Platform.Theda VinciSurgical System is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical
procedures. To date, we believe surgeons have used theda VinciSurgical System to perform nearly 100 different types of surgical procedures.

We believe that these technological advantages provide the patient with benefits of reduced trauma while restoring to the surgeon the 3D visualization, range of motion and fine tissue control consistent
with open surgery, We believe that our technology has the potential to change surgical procedures in two basic ways:



•Convert a Large Percentage of Open Procedures to da Vinci Surgery. We believe that our technology has the potential to convert a large
percentage of open procedures which are traditionally performed through large incisions toda Vincisurgery.



•Facilitate Difficult MIS Operations.We believe that several surgical procedures are performed only rarely today using conventional MIS
techniques can be performed routinely usingda Vincisurgery. Some procedures have been adapted for MIS techniques but are extremely difficult and are currently performed by a limited number of highly skilled surgeons. We believe ourda
VinciSurgical System will enable more surgeons at more institutions to perform these procedures.







Intuitive Surgical’s Products and Services

Our principal products include three models ofda VinciSurgical System—da Vinci SiSurgical System,da Vinci SSurgical System and standardda VinciSurgical System, along with a variety ofEndoWristinstruments and accessories.

da Vinci Surgical System

Ourda VinciSurgical System is
comprised of the following components:



•Surgeon’s Console or Consoles.Theda VinciSurgical System allows one or two surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an
ergonomic console viewing a 3-D image of the surgical field. The surgeon’s fingers grasp the instrument controls below the display with hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. Using electronic hardware, software, algorithms,
mechanics and optics, our technology translates the surgeon’s hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of theEndoWristinstruments positioned inside the patient.



•Patient-Side Cart.The patient-side cart, which can be easily moved next to the operating table, holds electromechanical arms that manipulate
the instruments inside the patient. Up to four arms attached to the cart can be easily positioned as appropriate, and then locked into place. The first two arms, one representing the left hand and one representing the right hand of the surgeon, hold
ourEndoWristinstruments. The third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom and rotate his or her field of vision. The fourth arm provides additional surgical capabilities by holding an additionalEndoWristinstrument as well as potentially reducing the need for an assistant surgeon. The surgeon has a choice of simultaneously controlling any two of the operating arms by tapping a foot pedal underneath the surgeon’s console. The
fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a thirdEndoWristinstrument and perform additional tasks such as applying counter traction and following running sutures. The fourth instrument arm is a
standard integrated feature on theda Vinci Siandda Vinci Ssurgical systems and is available as a field upgrade on three-arm standardda Vinciand three-armda Vinci SSurgical Systems.



•3-D Vision System. Our vision system includes ourInSite3-D endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color
monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized edge enhancement and noise reduction equipment. The resulting 3-D image has high resolution and contrast and no flicker or cross fading, which sometimes occurs in single monitor
systems, and minimizes eye fatigue. Our HD vision system provides at least 20% more viewing area and enhances visualization of tissue planes and critical anatomy compared with our standard vision system. The digital zoom feature in the 3-D HD vision
system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting endoscope position and reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. The 3-D HD vision is a standard integrated feature onda Vinci SSurgical
Systems sold today and as an upgrade option to our existing customers who own ada Vinci SSurgical System without HD vision.

Our newestda Vincimodel, theda Vinci Si, was launched in April 2009. Theda Vinci SiSystem retains and builds on the core technology at the heart of the existingda Vinciandda Vinci SSystems. Theda Vinci Sibrings to market three significant innovations.

First, ourInSite™ imaging system has been substantially redesigned for increased visual acuity and improved ease-of-use. The HD imaging system’s increased performance is similar to the move from 720p to 1080i in commercial television. We
believe that the increased visual performance will continue to enhance surgeon precision and confidence, which may contribute to improved patient outcomes and shorter procedure times. Additionally, theda Vinci Sisurgeon’s user
interface has been redesigned to allow simplified and integrated control ofda Vinciproducts and other operating room devices, such as electro-surgical units. The new user interface also includes a set of ergonomic controls for surgeon
comfort. We believe the simplified interface







may allow for easier surgeon training. The third significant enhancement is the introduction of a second surgeon’s console, which we envision to be used in two possible ways: to provide
assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery, or, to be used as an active aid during surgeon-student training sessions. With theda Vinci Si, a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can
be passed control of some or all of theda Vinciarms during a case. We believe this could both shorten the learning curve for new surgeons and will allow for collaborative surgery in complex cases.

EndoWrist Instruments, Accessories and Vision Components

We manufacture a variety ofEndoWristinstruments, each of which incorporates wrist joints for natural dexterity, with tips customized
for various surgical procedures.EndoWristinstruments are offered in both 5mm and 8mm diameter sizes. The instruments mount onto the electromechanical arms that represent the surgeon’s left and right hands and provide the mechanical
capability necessary for performing complex tissue manipulations through ports. At their tips, the variousEndoWristinstruments include forceps, scissors, electrocautery, scalpels and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon
from open surgery and conventional MIS. Generally, a variety ofEndoWristinstruments are selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. Where instrument tips need to incorporate a disposable component, such as scalpel blades, we sell
disposable inserts. We plan to continue to add new types ofEndoWristinstruments for additional types of surgical procedures.

TheEndoWristinstruments are sterilizable and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. A programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the system and instruments work
together. When anEndoWristinstrument is attached to an arm of the patient-side cart, the chip performs an “electronic handshake” that ensures the instrument was manufactured by us and communicates the type and function of the
instrument and number of past uses. For example, the chip distinguishes between scissors and a scalpel and controls the unique functions of different instruments as appropriate. In addition, the chip will not allow the instrument to be used for more
than the prescribed number of procedures so that its performance meets specifications during each procedure.

We also sell
various vision and accessory products, which are used in conjunction with theda VinciSurgical System as surgical procedures are performed. Accessory products include sterile drapes used to ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision
products such as replacement 3-D stereo endoscopes, camera heads, light guides, and other miscellaneous items. Existingda Vinci Sinstruments and mostda Vinci Saccessories are compatible with theda Vinci Sisystem.

Using theda VinciSurgical System

During a procedure, the patient-side cart is positioned next to the operating table with the electromechanical arms arranged to provide access to the initial ports selected by the surgeon. Once the ports
have been placed by the surgeon, the arms of theda VinciSurgical System are positioned and theEndoWristinstruments are introduced into the patient’s body. The surgeon then performs the procedure while sitting comfortably at
the surgeon’s console, manipulating the instrument controls and viewing the operation through our high performance 3-D vision system. When a surgeon needs to change an instrument, as is done many times during an operation, the instrument is
withdrawn from the surgical field using the controls at the console, in similar fashion to the way a surgeon withdraws instruments from the patient in conventional MIS. A scrub nurse standing near the patient removes the instrument from the
electromechanical arm and replaces it with another instrument, in a process designed to be rapid enough not to disturb the natural flow of the procedure. As a result, the scrub nurse plays a role similar to that played in open surgery and
conventional MIS. At the conclusion of the operation, the small port incisions are closed with either suture or band-aids.







Our Objective

Our objective is to bring the benefits of minimally invasive surgery to as many patients as possible. Our priorities to accomplish this are as follows:



1.Patient Value.We believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined as: Patient Value = Efficacy/Invasiveness. Most patients will place
higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious, but also less invasive than alternative treatments. Our goal is to provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options.



2.Key Procedures.We believe that the adoption ofda Vincisurgery occurs based upon the patient value it brings to each surgical procedure. We therefore
focus our development efforts on those procedures to which we believe our products bring the highest patient value. We currently focus on five surgical specialties: urologic surgery, gynecologic surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, general surgery and
head and neck surgery. In 2009, the mix of procedures performed with theda VinciSurgical System among these five surgical specialties was largest within urology, followed by gynecology, cardiothoracic, general surgery and head and neck
surgery. Theda VinciSurgical System is used to perform, among other procedures,da VinciProstatectomy,da VinciPartial Nephrectomy & Nephrectomy,da VinciCystectomy,da VinciPyeloplasty,da
VinciHysterectomy,da VinciMyomectomy,da VinciSacral Colpopexy,da VinciMitral Valve Repair,da VinciRevascularization,da VinciThoracoscopy,da VinciGastric Bypass,da VinciLow Anterior
Colon Resection andda VinciThyroidectomy. The development of new specialties and key procedures in partnership with leading surgeons have been, and will continue to be, a catalyst for the growth of our company.



3.Surgeon Value.We train and assist surgeons in building their practices by delivering superior patient value through improved surgical efficacy and reduced
surgical trauma.



4.Hospital Value.We assist both academic and community hospitals in building value by offering superior patient value in terms of improved surgical efficacy and
reduced surgical trauma thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced length of patient stay. We expect these efforts to increase demand for our products among competitive hospitals, surgeons and
referring physicians.

Clinical Applications

We believe our technology is capable of enhancing or enabling a wide variety of procedures in many surgical specialties. Surgeons using ourda VinciSurgical System have completed hundreds of
thousands of surgical procedures of various types, including urologic, gynecologic, cardiothoracic, general and head and neck surgery procedures. These surgical applications, which are currently cleared by the FDA, are further described below.

Urologic Surgery

Prostatectomy.Radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostatic cancer. The standard approach to removal of the prostate has been
via an open surgical procedure. The laparoscopic approach, while not prevalent, is an option, but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. Theda VinciSurgical System allows for improved visualization of the
gross anatomy (dorsal veins, endopelvic fascia, bladder muscle, puboprostatic ligaments), microanatomy (bladder muscosa, nerve bundles) and tissue planes, which are critical for an anatomic dissection. Peer-reviewed clinical publications have
reported that radical prostatectomy using theda VinciSurgical System has improved oncologic results, reduced operative blood loss, reduced postoperative pain, improved cosmesis, quicker return to normal activity and may provide a better
nerve-sparing operation. Theda VinciSurgical System has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique.

Nephrectomy (partial and total).Partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney
containing a tumor), and total nephrectomy is the total removal of a kidney. Partial







nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer, when the tumor size is four centimeters or less in size. Total nephrectomies are also most
commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer that are not resectable with a partial nephrectomy and are also performed in patients suffering from various benign conditions. There are currently three surgical
approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, which requires a large incision; laparoscopy, which allows the surgeon to operate through several small incisions, and hand assisted, which incorporates both laparoscopy and a
modified open surgical technique. Surgeons have reported that the combination of theda VinciSurgical System’s improved visualization capabilities and enhanced dexterity allows for greater precision and control during these complex
surgical procedures, which could enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through this minimally invasive technique resulting in reduced operative blood loss, reduced postoperative pain, shorter length of hospital stay, quicker
return to normal activity and improved cosmesis.

Cystectomy. Cystectomy is the removal of the bladder in patients
diagnosed with bladder cancer. The current standard approach to the removal of the bladder is via an open surgical procedure. The laparoscopic approach, while not prevalent, is an option, but is difficult and poses challenges to even the most
skilled urologist. Theda VinciSurgical System allows for improved visualization of the gross anatomy and tissue planes, which are critical for an anatomic dissection. Theda VinciSurgical System has enabled a number of these
procedures to be converted from an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique, thus reducing blood loss and pain and allowing for the patient’s quicker return to normal activity.

Pyeloplasty.Pyeloplasty is the surgical reconstruction or revision of the renal pelvis to drain and decompress the kidney. In nearly
all cases, the goal of pyeloplasty surgery is to relieve a uretero-pelvic junction (UPJ) obstruction. There are currently two surgical approaches to performing pyeloplasties: open surgical technique, which requires a large incision, and laparoscopy,
which allows the surgeon to operate through several small incisions. Surgeons have reported that the combination of theda VinciSurgical System’s improved visualization capabilities and enhanced dexterity allows for greater precision
and control during these complex surgical procedures, which could enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through this minimally invasive technique resulting in reduced operative blood loss, reduced postoperative pain, shorter
length of hospital stay, quicker return to normal activity and improved cosmesis.

Gynecologic Surgery

Hysterectomy.

da Vinci

Myomectomy.Myomectomy, or removal of a myoma/fibroid, is a surgical procedure
performed when uterine preservation is sought. Women who desire to remain fertile are candidates for this procedure. Due to the substantial suturing required for this procedure, the standard surgical approach remains an open incision. There







are some highly skilled gynecological laparoscopists who perform laparoscopic myomectomies, but to this point, it has remained a small minority. We believe that theda VinciSurgical
System’s improved visualization capabilities and enhanced dexterity allows for greater precision and control during these complex surgical procedures, which could enable a large number of these procedures to be performed minimally invasively
resulting in reduced operative blood loss, reduced postoperative pain, shorter length of hospital stay, quicker return to normal activity and improved cosmesis.

Sacral Colpopexy.The abdominal sacral colpopexy is one of the most successful operations for vaginal vault prolapse. Sacral colpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports
the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). A sacral colpopexy can be performed using conventional laparoscopic technique, it is however, generally described as difficult and cumbersome to perform.da Vincisacral colpopexy combines the benefits of
a minimally invasive procedure with the durability of a traditional abdominal approach resulting in reduced operative blood loss, reduced postoperative pain, shorter length of hospital stay, quicker return to normal activity and improved cosmesis.

Cardiothoracic Surgery

Mitral Valve Repair.

da Vinci

EndoWrist

da Vinci

da Vinci

Cardiac Revascularization or Coronary Artery Bypass.

da Vinci

da Vinci

da Vinci

da Vinci







Thoracic Surgery.A number of surgical procedures performed in the thorax, or chest
cavity, can be accomplished by minimally invasive methods. These methods are generally referred to as video-assisted thoracoscopic (VATS) surgery. Procedures performed via these methods include wedge resection, lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal
mass excision and esophagectomy. They include various types of lung resection, biopsy procedures, node dissections, nerve resections and esophageal surgery. Conventional thoracoscopic tools have all the limitations of conventional laparoscopic
tools, such as “backward” counter-intuitive movement and limited range of motion. We believe that the capability of our technology to operate dexterously in the small and restrictive space of the chest cavity offers significant clinical
value in the performance of advanced thoracic surgical procedures like lobectomy. Use of theda VinciSystem allows formal, anatomical resection, along with complete mediastinal lymph node dissection—the gold standard treatment for early
stage non-small cell lung cancer. This approach provides effective treatment without the need for a formal thoracotomy (open technique), or facilitation-access mini-thoracotomy (video-assisted thoracic surgery or VATS technique).

General Surgery

Gastric Bypass.A growing number of patients are undergoing surgical treatment for their morbid obesity. Laparoscopic roux-en-Y gastric bypass, or LRYGB, is the most commonly performed surgical
procedure for morbid obesity in the United States. Briefly, the LRYGB operation promotes weight loss by two mechanisms. First, the size of the stomach is greatly reduced by surgical “stapling”, thus restricting the amount of food the
patient can consume at a given time. Second, a long segment of intestine is bypassed causing less food to be absorbed. The LRYGB is one of the most technically challenging laparoscopic procedures because of the suturing, stapling and tissue (bowel)
manipulation that is required. A critical portion of the operation is anastomosing the stomach to the small intestine. Leaks in the anastomosis are the cause of major complications that can result in death. Theda VinciSurgical System is
used by surgeons in suturing this anastomosis. We believe procedures performed with theda VinciSurgical System incorporating a double-layered hand-sewn anastomosis results in fewer anastomotic leaks than in traditional laparoscopic
procedures.

Low Anterior Resection.Low anterior resection (LAR) is a surgical procedure to treat rectal cancer. The
surgeon dissects and removes the majority of the rectum, descending colon and a portion of healthy tissue and lymph nodes. Conventional laparoscopy is not widely employed to treat rectal cancer due to the high degree of difficulty. In fact,
literature suggests that laparoscopic LAR may increase the rate of surgical complications and positive oncologic margins. Furthermore, pelvic nerve bundles that enable healthy bladder and sexual function may be compromised inbothopen and
laparoscopic LAR procedures due to poor exposure, visualization and dexterity inherent in operating with conventional tools in a tight and deep surgical space. In contrast, theda VinciSurgical System is a proven tool for performing precise
cancer operations, with minimal complications, in the deep pelvis. As withda VinciProstatectomy,da VinciLow Anterior Resection provides surgeons with greater dexterity, visualization and control when performing rectal cancer
surgery as compared to open and laparoscopic approaches. We believe thatda VinciLow Anterior Resection not only enables a more precise operation with fewer complications and shorter recovery time, but may also improve oncologic outcomes.

Thyroidectomy.Thyroid cancer is most commonly treated by thyroidectomy, the removal of all or part of the thyroid
gland. Complete resection of the cancer and surrounding gland is required for proper oncologic outcomes. The surgeon must also precisely dissect and preserve an important nerve that sits deep to the gland in order to maintain proper voice function
and spare the parathyroid glands that regulate calcium levels in the blood. For these reasons, open surgery is the dominant surgical approach. Endoscopic approaches with good functional outcomes have proven too difficult for the majority of
surgeons. Open surgery however leaves a prominent and unsightly neck scar often as large as four to six centimeters. In Asia, surgeons are now using theda VinciSurgical System to perform thyroidectomies from a remote site in the axilla
(armpit). The precision, exposure and visualization achieved with theda VinciSurgical System enables an endoscopic technique that is accessible to a broader set of surgeons. Withda VinciThyroidectomy, surgeons are now able to offer
their patients a procedure with no neck scar while maintaining the outcomes of open surgery for cancer control, voice preservation and calcium blood levels.







Head and Neck Surgery

Transoral Surgery. Head and neck cancer, which most often occurs in the throat due to prolonged tobacco and alcohol use, is treated by
surgical resection or chemoradiation. Surgical resection is performed most often by an open approach, which at times requires a “jaw-splitting” mandibulotomy. This procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is traumatic and disfiguring
to the patient and requires extensive recovery and rehabilitation. Minimally invasive approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) have seen little adoption due to a high degree of difficulty and line-of-sight limitations of conventional endoscopic
tools. While chemoradiation does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions, literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients’ ability to speak and swallow normally.da VinciTransoral Surgery, on the other hand,
allows surgeons to treat cancers occurring in the oropharynx (e.g., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth. Theda VinciSurgical System extends the ability to resect tumors transorally, avoiding in many cases an open approach
via mandibulotomy. We believe thatda VinciTransoral Surgery provides a more precise platform for complete resection of cancers of the oral cavity and maximizes the preservation of healthy tissue to maintain normal speech and swallowing
function resulting in reduced length of hospital stay and time in which the patient requires a feeding tube.

Additional
Clinical Applications

We believe there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with theda
VinciSurgical System. Surgeons using theda VinciSurgical System have performed nearly 100 different types of surgery throughout the world.

Sales and Customer Support

We market our products through a direct sales
force in the United States and parts of Europe. We also market our products outside the United States through distributors. Our direct sales force is comprised of sales managers, clinical sales representatives, training specialists, and technical
service representatives. Sales activities include educating surgeons and hospital staff across multiple surgical specialties on the advantages ofda Vincisurgery and the clinical applications that our technology enables. We also train our
sales force to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including clinical benefits ofda VinciSurgery, reductions in complications and length of stay and the resulting potential for increased patient
satisfaction and volume. Once a hospital has installed ada VinciSurgical System, our clinical sales representatives help drive the utilization of the system, and our technical service representatives provide service and maintenance for the
system. No one customer accounted for more than 10% of revenue during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 490 employees in our field sales and service organizations, up from approximately 380 employees in these organizations as of December 31, 2008. We expect to continue growing these
organizations as we expand our business.

Ourda VinciSurgical System typically has a lengthy sales cycle. It is
viewed as a major capital equipment purchase by our customers and sales are often affected by the timing of their budgeting cycles. Our sales ofda VinciSurgical Systems tends to be heaviest during the third month of each quarter. A portion
of our customers acquireda VinciSurgical Systems through a capital lease or operating lease with a third-party leasing company. In these instances, we typically sell theda VinciSystem to the hospital or leasing company, and the
hospital enters into an independent arrangement with the leasing company. Therefore we treat these leasing transactions the same as sales transactions for purposes of recognizing revenue for the sale. During the twelve months ended December 31,
2009, approximately 15% of ourda VinciSystem sales involved a lease.

Our sales ofEndoWristinstruments and
accessories are driven by surgical procedures performed on installed systems. Our customers place orders to replenish their supplies ofEndoWristinstruments and accessories on a regular basis. Orders received are typically shipped within one
business day. Direct customers who purchase a newda VinciSystem typically place an initial stocking order ofEndoWristinstruments and accessories within one month of receiving their system.







Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. During our fiscal third quarter, which are
the three months ending September 30 each year, many physicians, hospital administrators, and patients take vacation, and we tend to see a reduction in surgical procedures performed, particularly in Europe. During our fiscal fourth quarter,
which are the three months ending December 31 each year, we tend to see our strongest performance in sales ofda VinciSurgical Systems.

Customer Support and Training Programs

Our goal is to provide
exceptional value to our customers: patients, surgeons and hospitals. We have a network of field service engineers across the United States, Europe and Asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. This infrastructure
of service and support specialists offer a full complement of services, including 24/7 support, installation, repair and maintenance for our customers.

We generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs.

We provide basic system training to surgeons and operating room nurses that teaches the fundamental operating principles of theda VinciSurgical System. We have established training centers where initial system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter by expert surgeons. In addition, we facilitate the proctoring of surgeons who are new toda
VinciSurgery by experiencedda VinciSystem users. Proctors provide training to other surgeons on how to perform certain surgical procedures with theda VinciSystem.

Research and Development

We focus our research and development efforts on
providing our customers with new products and product improvements that enable them to perform improved and innovative surgical procedures with less difficulty. We maintain research and development and engineering staff responsible for product
design and engineering. We invested $95.1 million, $79.4 million and $48.9 million of research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. This investment is applied generally to all product
areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time.

We establish strategic alliances with other medical
device companies to complement our research and development effort. To date, these alliances have taken several forms, including cooperation in the areas of product development, training, and procedure development and marketing activities. We have
formed alliances with several companies, including, but not limited to, Covidien Ltd., Johns Hopkins University, Johnson & Johnson, Luna Innovations, Inc., Medtronic, Inc., Novadaq Technologies, Inc., Olympus Corporation and USGI Medical,
Inc.

Manufacturing

We manufacture ourda VinciSurgical Systems at our facility in Sunnyvale, California. We manufacture ourEndowristinstruments at our Sunnyvale facility and at our Mexicali, Mexico facility. We began production in Mexicali in
July 2008.

We purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to
stringent quality specifications. Some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only
approved supply source for us among other sources). We purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods.







Competition

We consider our primary competition to be existing open surgery, conventional MIS, drug therapies, radiation treatment and emerging interventional surgical approaches. Our success depends on continued
clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability as well as educating hospitals, surgeons and patients on the demonstrated benefits associated withda Vincisurgery and its superiority to other techniques. We also face competition
from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the MIS market. While a few of these potential competitors are seeking to incorporate robotics into their product offerings, most are focused on adding capability to manual
MIS systems. Because many of these developments are aimed at MIS, we believe that ourda VinciSurgical System may actually prove complementary to these new technologies.

In addition, a number of companies are using or planning to use robots and computers in surgery, including Hitachi Ltd., Prosurgics, Inc.,
EndoControls, Inc., Olympus, Alf-X, Titan Medical, and Toshiba, Inc. Any company with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. Our revenues may be adversely
impacted if our competitors develop and introduce products that compete in our markets.

Intellectual Property

We place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies,
products and processes.

We generally rely upon a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret and other laws
(e.g., contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties) to protect our proprietary rights in
the developments, improvements and inventions that we have originated and which are incorporated in our products or that fall within our fields of interest. We also have agreements with third parties that provide for several exclusive and
non-exclusive licenses to their patents.

As of December 31, 2009, we held exclusive field-of-use as well as
non-exclusive licenses for over 290 U.S. patents and over 300 foreign patents, and owned outright over 170 U.S. patents and over 80 foreign patents. We also own or have licensed numerous pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. Our patents and
patent applications relate to a number of important aspects of our technology, including our surgeon’s console, electromechanical arms, vision system, endoscope positioning system andEndoWristinstruments. We intend to continue to file
additional patent applications both in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology.

While our patents are an important element of our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent on any one patent. We have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer
recognition for our products in the marketplace.

Government Regulation

United States

Our products and operations are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA. The FDA regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, distribution, and production of medical
devices in the United States to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. In addition, the FDA regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the United States to international
markets.

Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three
classes—Class I, Class II or Class III—depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Our current products are Class II medical devices.







Class II devices are those which are subject to the general controls and most require
premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the FDA, and clearance by the FDA. Premarket review and clearance by the FDA for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k)
premarket notification process. For most Class II devices, the manufacturer must submit to the FDA a premarket notification submission, demonstrating that the device is “substantially equivalent” in intended use and technology to a
“predicate device” that is either:



1.a device that has grandfather marketing status because it was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976, the date upon which the Medical Device Amendments of 1976
were enacted, or



2.a Class I or II device that has been cleared through the 510(k) process.

If the FDA agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device. The FDA has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k)
submission. As a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. The FDA may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. If the FDA determines that the device, or its intended use,
is not “substantially equivalent,” the FDA will place the device, or the particular use of the device, into Class III, and the device sponsor must then fulfill much more rigorous pre-marketing requirements.

After a device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would
constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a pre-market approval application, or PMA, approval. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA can
review any such decision. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance, the agency may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The FDA also can require the
manufacturer to cease marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is obtained.

Other post-market
regulatory requirements apply to our commercial distribution of theda VinciSurgical System, including the following:



•QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the
manufacturing process;



•labeling regulations;







•the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or “off label” uses;



•the Reports of Corrections and Removals regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA recalls and field corrective actions taken to
reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the FFDCA that may pose a risk to health; and



•the Medical Device Reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death
or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur.

We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine compliance with all regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety
of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions including the following:



•fines, injunctions, and civil penalties;



•recall or seizure of our products;



•operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production;



•refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products;



•withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals already granted; and



•criminal prosecution.

California Regulation

The State of California requires that we
obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and subjects us to periodic inspection. Our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in 2008 and were found to be in compliance. In accordance with the California State regulations,
the license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information.

Foreign Regulation

In order for us to market our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive
safety and quality regulations in other countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in any
foreign country in which we plan to market our products may harm our ability to generate revenue and harm our business.

To be
sold in Japan, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they are granted approval, or “Shonin.” In November 2009, we received Shonin approval from the Japanese Ministry of
Health, Labor, and Welfare, or MHLW, for ourda Vinci SSystem in Japan. With this approval, we are now focusing on meeting various trade and importation requirements necessary for commercialization and to obtain appropriate
reimbursement rates for severalda Vinciprocedures in Japan. We have a separate independent distribution partner in Japan who will be responsible for selling, marketing, and servicing Intuitive’s products in Japan.

Commercialization of medical devices in Europe is regulated by the European Union (EU). The EU presently requires that all medical products
bear the Conformite Europeene, or CE mark for compliance with the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC). The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and effectiveness mandated in applicable European
medical device directives, which once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the EU. The CE mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the EU, such as Australia, and can assist in the clearance process. In order to
affix the CE mark on products, a recognized European Notified Body must certify a manufacturer’s quality system for compliance with international and European requirements. We have received permission from DGM, our







Notified Body and agent of the Danish Government, to affix the CE mark to ourda VinciSurgical System andEndoWristinstruments. To maintain authorization to apply the CE mark, we
are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. To date we have met these requirements and our certificate is valid until December 2010. The most recent audit of the facility was in November 2009, and the facility was
found to be in compliance.

If we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for
permission to affix the CE mark to such products. We do not know whether we will be able to obtain permission to affix the CE mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain
the permissions we have already received. If we are unable to maintain permission to affix the CE mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the EU.

The regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary
from country to country. These regulations typically require regulatory approvals, and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our
products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products, may impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business.

Third Party Reimbursement

In the United States and international markets
where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all surgical procedures. Governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and
physicians for surgery when the procedures are considered medically necessary. In the United States, reimbursement for medical procedures under the Medicare and Medicaid programs is administered by Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
Generally, procedure codes issued by the American Medical Association are copyrighted Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes. In addition, CMS issues ICD-9-CM codes and reimburses hospitals by Diagnostic Related Groupings, or DRGs and
Ambulatory Payment Classifications, or APCs. If a new procedure CPT code and/or reimbursement designation is required, an application would need to be submitted to the American Medical Association or CMS.

On October 1, 2008, CMS issued a new family of ICD-9-CM procedure codes for "Robotically Assisted Procedures". For laparoscopic
procedures completed with theda VinciSystem, U.S. hospitals are expected to report the primary surgical procedure code, along with ICD-9-CM 17.42, to describe a laparoscopic robotic assisted procedure. The purpose of the ICD-9-CM
family of procedure codes, 17.4X, is to gather data on robotic assisted surgical procedures. It does not influence the MS-DRG assignment. A surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be
assigned to the clinically relevant MS-DRG.

Governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge
the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. Reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third party involved, the insurance plan involved, and other factors. Medicare reimburses
hospitals a prospectively determined fixed amount for both inpatient and outpatient surgical services, and reimburses physicians a prospectively determined fixed amount based on the professional service rendered. This fixed amount is paid regardless
of the actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care and is unrelated to the specific products used in that procedure. Thus, any reimbursements that hospitals obtain for performing surgery with our products will generally
have to cover any additional costs that hospitals incur in purchasing our products.

Domestic institutions typically bill for
the primary surgical procedure that includes our products to various third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. Because ourda VinciSurgical System has been cleared for
commercial distribution in the United States by the







FDA, Medicare reimbursement is available for the primary surgical procedure that uses our device in cleared procedures and procedures conducted under an approved investigational device exemption
application. We believe that the additional procedures we intend to target are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies. If hospitals do not obtain sufficient
reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors’ policies do not permit reimbursement for surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate
the revenues necessary to support our business. In such circumstances, we may need to seek a unique Current Procedural Terminology code for robotic-assisted surgery from the American Medical Association and/or a reimbursement adjustment from CMS. If
an application for a unique code or modifier is required, reimbursement for any use of our products may be unavailable until an appropriate code is granted. The application process, from filing until adoption of a new code, can take two or more
years.

In countries outside the United States, reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental
authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. In most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. Additionally, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain European
countries. To effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek international reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. In Japan, we intend to seek reimbursement
approvals from the government for procedures performed with our products. The timing of these approvals can vary significantly, and could significantly impact our ability to commercialize our products in Japan. In some countries patients may be
permitted to pay directly for surgical services. However, such “co-pay” practices are not common in countries such as Japan.

The U. S. government has in the past considered, is currently considering and may in the future, consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both
private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. State and local governments, as well as a number of foreign governments, are also considering or have adopted similar types of policies. While we believe that minimally invasive surgery usingda VinciSurgical Systems reduces healthcare costs, future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the United States or elsewhere, and current uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact
on the demand for our products and services and our business. These include changes that may reduce reimbursement rates for procedures using our products and/or potential fees assessed on revenues generated by medical device companies that may be
proposed or implemented by the current U.S. Presidential administration or Congress. It is unclear which, if any, of the various U.S. healthcare reforms currently being discussed and/or proposed might be enacted by the U.S. Congress and signed into
law by the President.

Any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce
reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would affect our ability to generate the revenues necessary to
support our business.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had 1,263 employees, 180 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 403 in manufacturing and service and 680 in marketing, sales, and administrative
activities. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Website Access to Reports

We make our periodic and current reports available, including our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy and any







amendments to those reports, free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our
website address is www.intuitivesurgical.com and the reports are filed under “SEC Filings,” on the Company—Investor Relations portion of our website. We periodically webcast company announcements, product launch events and executive
presentations which can be viewed via our Investor Relations web site. Additionally, we provide notifications of our material news including SEC filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our Investor Relations web site. The contents of
these web sites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file and any references to these web sites are intended to be inactive textual references only.







