Item 1. Business.

Loews Corporation was incorporated in 1969 and is a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of
business:



🌑commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation, a 89% owned subsidiary);



🌑operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., a 53% owned subsidiary);



🌑transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, a wholly
owned subsidiary);



🌑operation of a chain of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary); and



🌑manufacture of rigid plastic packaging solutions (Consolidated Container Company LLC, a 99% owned subsidiary).

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Report to “Loews Corporation,”
“the Company,” “Parent Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or like terms refer to the business of Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries.

On June 29, 2018, Boardwalk GP, LP (“General Partner”), the general partner of Boardwalk Pipeline Partners LP
and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, elected to exercise its right to purchase all of the issued and outstanding common units representing limited partnership interests in Boardwalk Pipeline Partners LP not already owned by the
General Partner or its affiliates pursuant to Section 15.1(b) of Boardwalk Pipeline Partners LP’s Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership, as amended (“Limited Partnership Agreement”). On July 18, 2018,
the General Partner completed the transaction for a cash purchase price, determined in accordance with the Limited Partnership Agreement, of $12.06 per unit, or approximately $1.5 billion, in the aggregate. For further information on this
transaction, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included under Item 8.

We have five
reportable segments comprised of CNA Financial Corporation, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, Loews Hotels Holding Corporation and the Corporate segment. The operations of Consolidated Container since the acquisition
date in the second quarter of 2017 are included in the Corporate segment. Each of our operating subsidiaries is headed by a chief executive officer who is responsible for the operation of its business and has the duties and authority commensurate
with that position. Additional financial information on each of our segments is included under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”).

CNA FINANCIAL CORPORATION

CNA Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “CNA”) is an insurance holding company. CNA’s
property and casualty and remaining life and group insurance operations are primarily conducted by Continental Casualty Company (“CCC”), The Continental Insurance Company, Western Surety Company, CNA Insurance Company Limited and
Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Limited and its subsidiaries (“Hardy”). CNA accounted for 72.0%, 69.8% and 71.6% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

CNA’s insurance products primarily include commercial property and casualty coverages, including surety. CNA’s
services include warranty, risk management, information services, and claims administration. CNA’s products and services are primarily marketed through independent agents, brokers and managing general underwriters to a wide variety of
customers, including small, medium and large businesses, insurance companies, associations, professionals and other groups.






Property & Casualty Operations

CNA’s commercial property and casualty insurance operations (“Property & Casualty Operations”)
includes its Specialty, Commercial and International lines of business.

Specialty

Specialty provides management and professional liability and other coverages through property and casualty products and
services using a network of brokers, independent agencies and managing general underwriters. Specialty includes the following business groups:

Management& Professional Liability: Management & Professional Liability consists
of the following coverages and products:



🌑professional liability coverages and risk management services to various professional firms, including
architects, real estate agents, accounting firms and law firms;



🌑directors and officers (“D&O”), employment practices, fiduciary and fidelity coverages. Specific
areas of focus include small andmid-sizefirms, public as well as privately held firms andnot-for-profitorganizations;



🌑insurance products to serve the health care industry including professional and general liability as well as
associated standard property and casualty coverages. Key customer groups include aging services, allied medical facilities, dentists, physicians, hospitals, nurses and other medical practitioners.

Surety: Surety offers small, medium and large contract and commercial surety bonds. Surety provides surety and
fidelity bonds in all 50 states.

Warranty and Alternative Risks:Warranty and Alternative Risks
provides extended service contracts and insurance products that provide protection from the financial burden associated with mechanical breakdown and other related losses, primarily for vehicles, portable electronic communication devices and other
consumer goods. Service contracts are generally distributed by commission-based independent representatives and sold by auto dealerships and retailers in North America to customers in conjunction with the purchase of a new or used vehicle or new
consumer goods. Additionally, CNA’s insurance companies may issue contractual liability insurance policies or guaranteed asset protection reimbursement insurance policies to cover the liabilities of these service contracts issued by affiliated
entities or third parties.

Commercial

Commercial works with a network of brokers and independent agents to market a broad range of property and casualty insurance
products and services to small, middle-market and large businesses. Property products include standard and excess property, marine and boiler and machinery coverages. Casualty products include standard casualty insurance products such as
workers’ compensation, general and product liability, commercial auto and umbrella coverages. Most insurance programs are provided on a guaranteed cost basis; however, CNA also offers specialized loss-sensitive insurance programs and total risk
management services relating to claim and information services to the large commercial insurance marketplace. These property and casualtyproducts are offered through CNA’s Middle Market, Small Business and Other Commercial insurance
groups.

International

International underwrites property and casualty coverages on a global basis through its United Kingdom-based insurance
company, a branch operation in Canada as well as through its presence at Lloyd’s of London (“Lloyd’s”) through Hardy Syndicate 382. Effective January 1, 2019, European Economic Area (“EEA”) business will be written
through a Luxembourg-based insurance company. Underwriting activities are managed through three business units that operate across all locations: Property, Energy & Marine, Casualty and Specialty and managed from headquarters in London.






Property & Casualty Structure

CNA’s Property & Casualty Operations field structure in the United States of America (“U.S.”) consists
of 49 underwriting locations. In addition, there are five centralized processing operations which handle policy processing, billing and collection activities and also act as call centers to optimize service. CNA’s claim presence consists of six
primary locations where it handles multiple claim types and key business functions. Additionally, regional claim offices are aligned with CNA’s underwriting field structure. CNA also has a presence in Canada and Europe consisting of 17 branch
operations and access to business placed at Lloyd’s through Hardy.

Other Insurance Operations

Other Insurance Operations include CNA’s long term care business that is inrun-off,certain corporate expenses, including interest on CNA corporate debt, and certain property and casualty businesses inrun-off,including CNA Re and asbestos and
environmental pollution (“A&EP”).

Other

Competition:The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive both as to rate and
service. CNA competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. Insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength.
Accordingly, CNA must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services. CNA is one of the largest commercial property and casualty insurance companies in the U.S.

Current Regulation:The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision.
Regulatory oversight by applicable agencies is exercised through review of submitted filings and information, examinations (both financial and market conduct), direct inquiries and interviews. Each domestic and foreign jurisdiction has established
supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relative to licensing insurers and agents, approving policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing the form and content of statutory financial reports and regulating capital
adequacy and the type, quality and amount of investments permitted. Such regulatory powers also extend to corporate governance requirements, risk management practices and disclosures and premium rate regulations requiring rates not be excessive,
inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. In addition to regulation of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, intercompany transfers of assets or payments may be subject to prior notice or approval by insurance regulators, depending on the size of such
transfers and payments in relation to the financial position of the insurance subsidiaries making the transfers or payments.

As CNA’s insurance operations are conducted in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions, CNA is subject to a number of
regulatory agency requirements applicable to a portion, or all, of CNA’s operations. These include but are not limited to, the State of Illinois Department of Insurance (which is CNA’s global group-wide supervisor), the U.K. Prudential
Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the Office of Superintendent of Financial Institutions of Canada and the Bermuda Monetary Authority.

Domestic insurers are also required by state insurance regulators to provide coverage to certain insureds who would not
otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. CNA’s share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function
of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state.

Further, domestic insurance companies
are subject to state guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments. Guaranty funds are governed by state insurance guaranty associations which levy assessments to meet the funding needs of insolvent insurer estates. Other insurance-related
assessments are generally levied by state agencies to fund various organizations including disaster relief funds, rating bureaus, insurance departments, and workers’ compensation second injury funds, or by industry organizations that assist in
the statistical analysis and ratemaking process and CNA has the ability to recoup certain of these assessments from policyholders.






Although the U.S. federal government does not currently directly regulate the
business of insurance, federal legislative and regulatory initiatives can affect the insurance industry. These initiatives and legislation include proposals relating to terrorism and natural catastrophe exposures, cybersecurity risk management,
federal financial services reforms and certain tax reforms.

The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of
2015 provides for a federal government backstop for insured terrorism risks through 2020. The mitigating effect of such law is part of the analysis of CNA’s overall risk posture for terrorism and, accordingly, CNA’s risk positioning may
change if such law were modified.

CNA also continues to invest in the security of its systems and network on an
enterprise-wide basis. This requires investment of a significant amount of resources by CNA on an ongoing basis. Potential implications of possible cybersecurity legislation on such current investment, if any, are uncertain.

The foregoing laws, regulations and proposals, either separately or in the aggregate, create a regulatory and legal
environment that may require changes in CNA’s business plan or significant investment of resources in order to operate in an effective and compliant manner.

Additionally, various legislative and regulatory efforts to reform the tort liability system have, and will continue to,
affect the industry. Although there has been some tort reform with positive impact to the insurance industry, new causes of action and theories of damages continue to be proposed in court actions and by federal and state legislatures that continue
to expand liability for insurers and their policyholders.

Hardy, a specialized Lloyd’s underwriter, is also
supervised by the Council of Lloyd’s, which is the franchisor for all Lloyd’s operations. The Council of Lloyd’s has wide discretionary powers to regulate Lloyd’s underwriting, such as establishing the capital requirements for
syndicate participation. In addition, the annual business plan of each syndicate is subject to the review and approval of the Lloyd’s Franchise Board, which is responsible for business planning and monitoring for all syndicates.

Capital adequacy and risk management regulations, referred to as Solvency II, apply to CNA’s European operations and are
enacted by the European Commission, the executive body of the European Union (“E.U.”). Additionally, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) continues to consider regulatory proposals addressing group
supervision, capital requirements and enterprise risk management.

Regulation Outlook:The IAIS has
developed a Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (“ComFrame”) which is focused on the effective group-wide supervision of internationally active insurance groups, such as CNA. As part of ComFrame,
the IAIS is developing an international capital standard for insurance groups. While the details of ComFrame including a global group capital standard and its applicability to CNA are uncertain at this time, certain jurisdictional regulatory regimes
are subject to revision in response to these global developments.

There have also been definitive developments with
respect to prudential insurance supervision unrelated to the IAIS activities. On September 22, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department, the U.S. Trade Representative (“USTR”) and the E. U. announced they had formally signed a covered
agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance(“U.S.-E.U.Covered Agreement”). TheU.S.-E.U.Covered Agreement requires U.S. states to
prospectively eliminate the requirement that domestic insurance companies must obtain collateral from E.U. reinsurance companies that are not licensed in their state (alien reinsurers) in order to obtain reserve credit under statutory accounting. In
exchange, the E.U. will not impose local presence requirements on U.S. firms operating in the E.U., and effectively must defer to U.S. group capital regulation for these firms. On December 18, 2018, the U.S. Treasury Department, the USTR, and
the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) announced they formally signed the Bilateral Agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance(“U.S.-U.K.Covered Agreement”). This Agreement
has similar terms as theU.S.-E.U.Covered Agreement, and will become effective upon the U.K.’s exit from the E.U.






Because these covered agreements are not self-executing, U.S. state laws will
need to be revised to change reinsurance collateral requirements to conform to the provisions within each of the agreements. Before any such revision to state laws can be advanced, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners
(“NAIC”) must develop a new approach for determination of the appropriate reserve credit under statutory accounting for E.U. and U.K. based alien reinsurers. In addition, the NAIC is currently developing an approach to group capital
regulation as the current U.S. regulatory regime is based on legal entity regulation. Both the reinsurance collateral requirement change and adoption of group capital regulation must be effected by the states within five years from the signing of
the Covered Agreements, or states risk federal preemption. CNA will monitor the modification of state laws and regulations in order to comply with the provisions of the Covered Agreements and assess potential effects on its operations and prospects.

Properties:CNA’s principal executive offices are based in Chicago, Illinois. CNA’s
subsidiaries maintain office space in various cities throughout the United States and various countries. CNA leases all of its office space.

DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC.

Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “Diamond Offshore”) provides contract drilling
services to the energy industry around the world with a fleet of 17 offshore drilling rigs consisting of four drillships and 13 semisubmersible rigs. Diamond Offshore accounted for 7.8%, 10.9% and 12.1% of our consolidated total revenue for the
years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

A floater rig is a type of mobile offshore drilling rig that floats
and does not rest on the seafloor. This asset class includes self-propelled drillships and semisubmersible rigs. Semisubmersible rigs are comprised of an upper working and living deck resting on vertical columns connected to lower hull members. Such
rigs operate in a “semi-submerged” position, remaining afloat, off bottom, in a position in which the lower hull is approximately 55 feet to 90 feet below the water line and the upper deck protrudes well above the surface. Semisubmersibles
hold position while drilling by use of a series of small propulsion units or thrusters that provide dynamic positioning (“DP”) to keep the rig on location, or with anchors tethered to the seabed. Although DP semisubmersibles are
self-propelled, such rigs may be moved long distances with the assistance of tug boats.Non-DP,or moored, semisubmersibles require tug boats or the use of a heavy lift vessel to move between locations.

A drillship is an adaptation of a maritime vessel that is designed and constructed to carry out drilling operations by means
of a substructure with a moon pool centrally located in the hull. Drillships are typically self-propelled and are positioned over a drillsite through the use of a DP system similar to those used on semisubmersible rigs.

Fleet Enhancements and Additions:Diamond Offshore’s long-term strategy is to upgrade its fleet to meet
customer demand for advanced, efficient and high-tech rigs by acquiring or building new rigs when possible to do so at attractive prices. Diamond Offshore’s most recent fleet enhancement cycle was completed in 2016 with the delivery of theOcean GreatWhite. During 2018, Diamond Offshore began reactivation of theOcean Endeavor. The rig is currently in the U.K., where it is completing its reactivation and is undergoing contract preparation activities in advance of its
upcoming contract in the second quarter of 2019. In addition, in late 2018, Diamond Offshore initiated the reactivation and upgrade of theOcean Onyxto increase the rig’s marketability by expanding its lower deck load, reducing rig
motion response and making other technologically desirable enhancements sought by Diamond Offshore’s customers. TheOcean Onyxhas been moved to Singapore, where Diamond Offshore expects its upgrade to be completed in the later part of
2019.

Diamond Offshore continues to evaluate further rig acquisition and enhancement opportunities as they arise.
However, Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance whether, or to what extent, it will continue to make rig acquisitions or enhancements to its fleet.

Markets:The principal markets for Diamond Offshore’s contract drilling services are:



🌑the Gulf of Mexico, including the U.S. and Mexico;



🌑South America, principally offshore Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago;






🌑Australia and Southeast Asia, including Malaysia, Indonesia, Myanmar and Vietnam;



🌑Europe, principally offshore the U.K. and Norway;



🌑East and West Africa; and



🌑the Mediterranean.

Drilling Contracts:Diamond Offshore’s contracts to provide offshore drilling services vary in their terms
and provisions. Diamond Offshore typically obtains its contracts through a competitive bid process, although it is not unusual for Diamond Offshore to be awarded drilling contracts following direct negotiations. Drilling contracts generally provide
for a basic dayrate regardless of whether or not drilling results in a productive well. Drilling contracts generally also provide for reductions in rates during periods when the rig is being moved or when drilling operations are interrupted or
restricted by equipment breakdowns, adverse weather conditions or other circumstances. Under dayrate contracts, Diamond Offshore generally pays the operating expenses of the rig, including wages and the cost of incidental supplies. Historically,
dayrate contracts have accounted for the majority of Diamond Offshore’s revenues. In addition, from time to time, Diamond Offshore’s dayrate contracts may also provide for the ability to earn an incentive bonus from its customer based upon
performance.

The duration of a dayrate drilling contract is generally tied to the time required to drill a single well or
a group of wells, which Diamond Offshore refers to as awell-to-wellcontract, or a fixed period of time, in what Diamond Offshore refers to as a term contract. Diamond
Offshore’s drilling contracts may be terminated by the customer in the event the drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if drilling operations are suspended for an extended period of time as a result of a breakdown of equipment or, in some cases,
due to events beyond the control of either party to the contract. Certain of Diamond Offshore’s contracts also permit the customer to terminate the contract early by giving notice; in most circumstances, this requires the payment of an early
termination fee by the customer. The contract term in many instances may also be extended by the customer exercising options for the drilling of additional wells or for an additional length of time, generally subject to mutually agreeable terms and
rates at the time of the extension. In periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors may prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers may prefer shorter contracts
that allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of declining dayrates. Moreover, drilling contractors may accept lower dayrates in a declining market in order to obtain longer-term contracts and add backlog.

Customers:Diamond Offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and
independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, Diamond Offshore performed services for 13, 14 and 18 different customers. During 2018, 2017 and 2016, Anadarko accounted for 34%, 25% and 22% of
Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues and Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. accounted for 16%, 19% and 18% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues. During 2018 and 2017, Hess Corporation accounted for 25% and
16% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues and BP accounted for 11% and 16% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of Diamond Offshore’s annual total
consolidated revenues during 2018, 2017 or 2016.

As of January 1, 2019, Diamond Offshore’s contract backlog was
$2.0 billion attributable to 12 customers. All four of its drillships are currently contracted to work in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (“GOM”). As of January 1, 2019, contract backlog attributable to Diamond Offshore’s expected
operations in the GOM was $471 million, $372 million, $217 million and $36 million for the years 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, all of which was attributable to three customers.

Competition:Based on industry data as of the date of this Report, there are approximately 760 mobile drilling
rigs in service worldwide, including approximately 240 floater rigs. Despite consolidation in previous years, the offshore contract drilling industry remains highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time
has a dominant market share. Some of Diamond Offshore’s competitors may have greater financial or other resources than it does.






Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price is
typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Customers may also consider rig availability and location, a drilling contractor’s operational and safety performance record, and condition and suitability
of equipment. Diamond Offshore believes it competes favorably with respect to these factors.

Diamond Offshore competes on
a worldwide basis, but competition may vary significantly by region at any particular time. Competition for offshore rigs generally takes place on a global basis, as these rigs are highly mobile and may be moved, although at a cost that may be
substantial, from one region to another. It is characteristic of the offshore drilling industry to move rigs from areas of low utilization and dayrates to areas of greater activity and relatively higher dayrates. The current oversupply of offshore
drilling rigs also intensifies price competition.

Governmental Regulation:Diamond Offshore’s operations
are subject to numerous international, foreign, U.S., state and local laws and regulations that relate directly or indirectly to its operations, including regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal andclean-upunder some circumstances, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, and may include laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use.

Properties:Diamond Offshore owns an office building in Houston, Texas, where its corporate headquarters are
located, and offices and other facilities in New Iberia, Louisiana, Aberdeen, Scotland, Macae, Brazil and Ciudad del Carmen, Mexico. Additionally, Diamond Offshore currently leases various office, warehouse and storage facilities in Australia,
Louisiana, Malaysia, Singapore and the U.K. to support its offshore drilling operations.

BOARDWALK PIPELINE
PARTNERS, LP

Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (together with its subsidiaries, “Boardwalk Pipeline”) is
engaged in the business of natural gas and natural gas liquids and hydrocarbons (herein referred to together as “NGLs”) transportation and storage. Boardwalk Pipeline accounted for 8.7%, 9.6% and 10.0% of our consolidated total revenue for
the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016.

A wholly owned subsidiary of ours, Boardwalk Pipelines Holding
Corp. (“BPHC”) owns, directly and indirectly, the General Partner interest and all of the limited partnership interests of Boardwalk Pipeline.

Boardwalk Pipeline owns and operates approximately 13,805 miles of interconnected natural gas pipelines directly serving
customers in 13 states and indirectly serving customers throughout the northeastern and southeastern U.S. through numerous interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines. Boardwalk Pipeline also owns and operates approximately 425 miles of NGL
pipelines in Louisiana and Texas. In 2018, its pipeline systems transported approximately 2.7 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and approximately 70.8 million barrels (“MMBbls”) of NGLs. Average daily throughput on Boardwalk
Pipeline’s natural gas pipeline systems during 2018 was approximately 7.3 billion cubic feet (“Bcf”). Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas storage facilities are comprised of 14 underground storage fields located in four states
with aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 205.0 Bcf and Boardwalk Pipeline’s NGL storage facilities consist of 11 salt dome storage caverns located in Louisiana with an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 31.8 MMBbls.
Boardwalk Pipeline also owns five salt dome caverns and related brine infrastructure for use in providing brine supply services and to support the NGL storage operations.






Boardwalk Pipeline’s pipeline and storage systems are described below:

The Gulf South Pipeline Company, LP (“Gulf South”) pipeline system runs approximately 7,190 miles along the Gulf
Coast in the states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. The pipeline system has apeak-daydelivery capacity of 9.7 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended
December 31, 2018 was 3.1 Bcf per day. Gulf South has ten natural gas storage facilities. The two natural gas storage facilities located in Louisiana and Mississippi have approximately 83.5 Bcf of working gas storage capacity and the eight salt
dome natural gas storage caverns in Mississippi have approximately 46.0 Bcf of total storage capacity, of which approximately 29.6 Bcf is working gas capacity. Gulf South also owns undeveloped land which is suitable for up to five additional storage
caverns.

The Texas Gas Transmission, LLC (“Texas Gas”) pipeline system runs approximately 5,975 miles and is
located in Louisiana, East Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio with smaller diameter lines extending into Illinois. The pipeline system has apeak-daydelivery capacity of 5.7
Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2018 was 2.8 Bcf per day. Texas Gas owns nine natural gas storage fields with 84.3 Bcf of working gas storage capacity.

The Gulf Crossing Pipeline Company LLC (“Gulf Crossing”) pipeline system is located in Texas and runs approximately
375 miles into Louisiana. The pipeline system has apeak-daydelivery capacity of 1.9 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2018 was 1.4 Bcf per day.

Boardwalk Louisiana Midstream, LLC and Boardwalk Petrochemical Pipeline, LLC (collectively “Louisiana Midstream”)
provide transportation and storage services for natural gas, NGLs and ethylene, fractionation services for NGLs and brine supply services. These assets provide approximately 49.5 MMBbls of salt dome storage capacity, including approximately 7.6 Bcf
of working natural gas storage capacity, significant brine supply infrastructure, and approximately 260 miles of pipeline assets. Louisiana Midstream owns and operates the Evangeline Pipeline (“Evangeline”), which is an approximately 175
mile interstate ethylene pipeline that is capable of transporting approximately 3.3 billion pounds of ethylene per year between Texas and Louisiana, where it interconnects with its ethylene distribution system. Throughput for Louisiana
Midstream was 70.8 MMBbls for the year ended December 31, 2018.

Boardwalk Texas Intrastate, LLC (“Texas
Intrastate”) provides intrastate natural gas transportation services on approximately 255 miles of pipeline located in South Texas. Texas Intrastate is situated to provide access to industrial and liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) export
markets, proposed power plants and third-party pipelines for exports to Mexico.

Boardwalk Pipeline has been engaged in
several growth projects. Since 2016, Boardwalk Pipeline has placed into service several growth projects that represent more than $1.5 billion of total capital expenditures and provide more than 2.9 Bcf of natural gas transportation capacity to
producers, power plants and an LNG export facility. These projects include Boardwalk Pipeline’s Northern Supply Access, Coastal Bend Header, Sulphur Storage and Pipeline Expansion and a power plant project in Louisiana. Boardwalk Pipeline
expects to spend approximately $480 million on its growth projects currently under construction through 2022 that are expected to serve increased demand from natural gasend-userssuch as power generation
plants and industrials, as well as liquids demand from petrochemical facilities. Collectively, these projects represent more than 1.3 Bcf per day of natural gas transportation toend-users.These growth
projects include three projects that will provide firm transportation services to new power plant customers, one each in Louisiana, Texas and Indiana. Boardwalk Pipeline is also progressing with the construction of several NGL growth projects that
are expected to provide transportation and storage services and brine supply services to petrochemical and industrial customers in southern Louisiana. All of Boardwalk Pipeline’s growth projects are secured by long-term firm contracts.

Customers:Boardwalk Pipeline serves a broad mix of customers, including producers of natural gas, and withend-usecustomers, including local distribution companies, marketers, electric power generators, industrial users and interstate and intrastate pipelines who, in turn, provide transportation and storage
services forend-users.These customers are located throughout the Gulf Coast, Midwest and Northeast regions of the U.S.






Competition:Boardwalk Pipeline competes with numerous other
pipelines that provide transportation, storage and other services at many locations along its pipeline systems. Boardwalk Pipeline also competes with pipelines that are attached to natural gas supply sources that are closer to some of its
traditional natural gas market areas. In addition, regulators’ continuing efforts to increase competition in the natural gas industry have increased the natural gas transportation options of Boardwalk Pipeline’s traditional customers. For
example, as a result of regulators’ policies, capacity segmentation and capacity release have created an active secondary market which increasingly competes with Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas pipeline services. Further, natural gas
competes with other forms of energy available to Boardwalk Pipeline’s customers, including electricity, coal, fuel oils and alternative fuel sources.

The principal elements of competition among pipelines are availability of capacity, rates, terms of service, access to gas
supplies, flexibility and reliability of service. In many cases, the elements of competition, in particular, flexibility, terms of service and reliability, are key differentiating factors between competitors. This is especially the case with
capacity being sold on a longer term basis. Boardwalk Pipeline is focused on finding opportunities to enhance its competitive profile in these areas by increasing the flexibility of its pipeline systems, such as modifying them to allow forbi-directionalflows, to meet the demands of customers, such as power generators and industrial users, and is continually reviewing its services and terms of service to offer customers enhanced service options.

Governmental Regulation:



Boardwalk Pipeline is also regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) through the Pipeline and
Hazardous Material Safety Administration (“PHMSA”) under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended (“NGPSA”) and the Hazardous Liquids Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, as amended (“HLPSA”). The NGPSA and HLPSA
govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of interstate natural gas and NGL pipeline facilities. Boardwalk Pipeline has authority from PHMSA to operate certain natural gas pipeline assets under
issued permits with specific conditions that allow it to operate those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline’s Specified Minimum Yield Strength (“SMYS”). Operating at these pressures
allows these pipelines to transport all of the existing natural gas volumes Boardwalk Pipeline has contracted for with its customers. PHMSA retains discretion whether to grant or maintain authority for Boardwalk Pipeline to operate its natural gas
pipeline assets at higher pressures and, in the event that PHSMA should elect not to allow Boardwalk Pipeline to operate at these higher pressures, it could affect its ability to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on these
pipeline assets, and Boardwalk Pipeline could incur significant additional costs to reinstate this authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations.

PHMSA’s regulations also require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs to
comprehensively evaluate certain high risk areas, known as high consequence areas (“HCAs”) along Boardwalk Pipeline’s pipelines and take additional safety measures to protect people and property in these highly populated areas. Recent
legislation has resulted in more stringent mandates for pipeline safety and has charged PHMSA with






re-opened

re-verification

The Surface Transportation Board (“STB”) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipeline charges for interstate service on
its ethylene pipelines. The Louisiana Public Service Commission (“LPSC”) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipeline charges for intrastate service within the state of Louisiana on its petrochemical and NGL pipelines. The STB and LPSC require
that Boardwalk Pipeline’s transportation rates are reasonable and that its practices cannot unreasonably discriminate among its shippers.

Boardwalk Pipeline’s operations are also subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to
protection of the environment and occupational health and safety. Such laws and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment
and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases, discharges and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental regulations also require that Boardwalk Pipeline’s facilities, sites and
other properties be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Occupational health and safety regulations establish standards protective of workers, both generally and within the pipeline
industry.

Many states where Boardwalk Pipeline operates also have, or are developing, similar environmental or
occupational health and safety legal requirements governing many of the same types of activities and those requirements can be more stringent than those adopted under federal laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these federal, state and
local laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of corrective or remedial obligations, the incurrence of capital expenditures, the occurrence of delays, denials or cancellations
in permitting or the development or expansion of projects and the issuance of orders enjoining performance of some or all of Boardwalk Pipeline’s operations in the affected areas. Historically, Boardwalk Pipeline’s environmental compliance
costs have not had a material adverse effect on its business, but there can be no assurance that continued compliance with existing requirements will not materially affect them, or that the current regulatory standards will not become more onerous
in the future, resulting in more significant costs to maintain compliance or increased exposure to significant liabilities.






Properties:Boardwalk Pipeline is headquartered in
approximately 103,000 square feet of leased office space located in Houston, Texas. Boardwalk Pipeline also leases approximately 60,000 square feet of office space in Owensboro, Kentucky. Boardwalk Pipeline’s operating subsidiaries own their
respective pipeline systems in fee. However, substantial portions of these systems are constructed and maintained on property owned by others pursuant torights-of-way,easements, permits, licenses or consents.

LOEWS HOTELS HOLDING CORPORATION

Loews Hotels Holding Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “Loews Hotels & Co”) operates a chain of
24 hotels. Twelve of these hotels are owned by Loews Hotels & Co, eight are owned by joint ventures in which Loews Hotels & Co has equity interests and four are managed for unaffiliated owners. Loews Hotels & Co’s
earnings are derived from the operation of its wholly owned hotels, its share of earnings in joint venture hotels and hotel management fees earned from both joint venture and managed hotels. Loews Hotels & Co accounted for 5.4%, 5.0% and
5.1% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016. The hotels are described below.



Number ofName and LocationRoomsOwned:Loews Chicago Hotel, Chicago, Illinois400Loews Chicago O’Hare Hotel, Chicago, Illinois556Loews Coronado Bay Resort, San Diego, California (a)439Loews Hotel 1000, Seattle, Washington120Loews Hotel Vogue, Montreal, Canada142Loews Miami Beach Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida790Loews Minneapolis Hotel, Minneapolis, Minnesota251Loews Philadelphia Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania581Loews Regency New York Hotel, New York, New York (a)379Loews San Francisco Hotel, San Francisco, California155Loews Vanderbilt Hotel, Nashville, Tennessee340Loews Ventana Canyon Resort, Tucson, Arizona398Joint Venture:Hard Rock Hotel, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida650Loews Atlanta Hotel, Atlanta, Georgia414Loews Hollywood Hotel, Hollywood, California628Loews Portofino Bay Hotel, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida750Loews Royal Pacific Resort, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida1,000Loews Sapphire Falls Resort, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida1,000Universal’s Aventura Hotel, Orlando, Florida600Universal’s Cabana Bay Beach Resort, Orlando, Florida2,200Management Contract:Bisha Hotel and Residences, Toronto, Canada96Loews Boston Hotel, Boston, Massachusetts225Loews New Orleans Hotel, New Orleans, Louisiana285Loews Santa Monica Beach Hotel, Santa Monica, California347



(a)Owned hotels subject to a land lease.






Competition:Competition from other hotels and lodging
facilities is vigorous in all locations in which Loews Hotels & Co operates. The demand for hotel rooms is seasonal and dependent on general and local economic conditions. Loews Hotels & Co properties also compete with facilities
offering similar services in locations other than those in which its hotels are located. Competition among hotels is based primarily on quality of location, facilities, price and service. Because of the competitive nature of the industry, hotels
must continually make expenditures for updating, refurnishing and repairs and maintenance in order to prevent competitive obsolescence and remain competitive.

Recent Developments and Growth Projects:



🌑In 2018, Universal’s Aventura Hotel in Orlando Florida, a 600 guestroom hotel, opened. As with Loews
Hotels & Co’s other properties at Universal Orlando, Loews Hotels & Co serves as manager and has a 50% joint venture interest in this hotel;



🌑In 2018, the sale of Loews Annapolis Hotel in Annapolis, Maryland, was completed;



🌑In 2018, the sale of an equity interest in Loews Boston Hotel in Boston Massachusetts was completed;



🌑In 2019, Live! by Loews in Arlington, Texas, an approximately 300 guestroom hotel in which Loews
Hotels & Co serves as manager and has a joint venture interest, is expected to be completed;



🌑In 2019 and 2020, Universal’s Endless Summer Resort – Surfside Inn and Suites and Universal’s
Endless Summer Resort – Dockside Inn and Suites at Universal Orlando, with an aggregate of approximately 2,800 guestrooms, are expected to open. As with Loews Hotels & Co’s other properties at Universal Orlando, Loews
Hotels & Co serves as manager and has a 50% joint venture interest in these hotels;



🌑In 2020, Loews Kansas City Hotel in Kansas City, Missouri, an approximately 800 guestroom hotel in which Loews
Hotels & Co serves as manager and has a majority equity interest, is expected to be completed; and



🌑In 2020, Live! by Loews in St. Louis, Missouri, an approximately 216 guestroom hotel in which Loews
Hotels 
& Co serves as manager and has a joint venture interest, is expected to be completed.

CONSOLIDATED
 CONTAINER COMPANY LLC

Consolidated Container manufactures rigid plastic packaging to provide packaging solutions to
end markets such as beverage, food and household chemicals through a network of manufacturing locations across North America. Consolidated Container develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of extrusion blow-molded and injection molded
plastic containers for target markets. In addition, Consolidated Container manufactures commodity and differentiated plastic resins from recycled plastic materials for a variety of end markets. Consolidated Container accounted for 6.2% and 3.6% of
our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.

Customers: Consolidated
Container sells its products to approximately 1,570 customers throughout North America. Consolidated Container’s largest customers for rigid packaging include a diverse customer base of many nationally recognized branded food, beverage and
consumer products companies. The recycled resins customer base is primarily domestic with customers in several end markets such as packaging, automotive, industrial and consumer goods. Dean Foods Company represented approximately 11% of Consolidated
Container’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 11% of its net sales, since the date of acquisition, for the year ended December 31, 2017. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of Consolidated Container’s net
sales during 2018 or 2017.

Competition: Consolidated Container faces competition throughout its product lines from
a number of regional and local manufacturers, including smaller firms operating in similar geographic regions and well-established businesses operating nationally. Consolidated Container believes that its long term success is largely dependent on
its ability to continue to address logistically complex and technically demanding customer needs, maintain strong relationships with current customers, attract new customers, develop product innovations, provide superior service to its customers and
reduce its cost structure.






Properties: Consolidated Container leases its corporate offices in
Atlanta, Georgia and Omaha, Nebraska. It operates 57 manufacturing facilities located throughout the United States and five facilities located in Canada, of which 57 are leased and five are owned. In addition, Consolidated Container utilizes eight
warehouse facilities, of which seven are leased and one is owned.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

Including our operating subsidiaries as described below, we employed approximately 17,900 persons at December 31, 2018.
CNA employed approximately 6,100 persons. Diamond Offshore employed approximately 2,300 persons, including international crew personnel furnished through independent labor contractors. Boardwalk Pipeline employed approximately 1,240 persons,
approximately 110 of whom are union members covered under collective bargaining agreements. Loews Hotels & Co employed approximately 5,460 persons, approximately 1,770 of whom are union members covered under collective bargaining
agreements. Consolidated Container employed approximately 2,600 persons, approximately 230 of whom are covered under collective bargaining agreements. We and our subsidiaries have satisfactory labor relations.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



FirstBecameNamePosition and Offices HeldAgeOfficerMarc A. AlpertSenior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary562016David B. EdelsonSenior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer592005Richard W. ScottSenior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer652009Kenneth I. SiegelSenior Vice President612009Andrew H. TischOffice of the President,Co-Chairmanof the Board and
Chairman of the Executive Committee691985James S. TischOffice of the President, President and Chief Executive Officer661981Jonathan M. TischOffice of the President andCo-Chairmanof the
Board651987

Andrew H. Tisch and James S. Tisch are brothers and are cousins of Jonathan M. Tisch. None of
our other executive officers or directors is related to any other.

All of our executive officers, except for Marc A.
Alpert and David B. Edelson, have served in their current roles at the Company for at least the past five years. Prior to assuming his current role at the Company in July of 2016, Mr. Alpert served as a partner and head of the Public Companies
Practice Group at the law firm of Chadbourne & Parke LLP. Mr. Edelson served as our Senior Vice President prior to May of 2014, when he assumed his current role.

Officers are elected annually and hold office until their successors are elected and qualified, and are subject to removal by
the Board of Directors.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our website address is www.loews.com. We make available, free of charge, through the website our Annual Report on Form10-K,Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q,Current Reports on Form8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate
Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee charter, Compensation Committee charter and Nominating and Governance Committee charter are also available on our website. Information on or accessible through our website is not incorporated by reference into
this Report. This Annual Report on Form10-Kand other SEC filings made by the Company are also accessible through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.






