Item 1. Business.

Loews Corporation was incorporated in 1969 and is a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of
business:



●commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation, a 90% owned subsidiary);



●operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., a 53% owned subsidiary);



●transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, a 51%
owned subsidiary); and



●operation of a chain of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary).

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Report to “Loews Corporation,”
“the Company,” “Parent Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or like terms refer to the business of Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries.

We have five reportable segments comprised of our four individual operating subsidiaries listed above and our Corporate
segment. Each of our operating subsidiaries is headed by a chief executive officer who is responsible for the operation of its business and has the duties and authority commensurate with that position. Additional financial information on each of our
segments is included under the heading corresponding to that segment under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”).

CNA FINANCIAL CORPORATION

CNA Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “CNA”) is an insurance holding company. CNA’s
property and casualty and remaining life and group insurance operations are primarily conducted by Continental Casualty Company (“CCC”), The Continental Insurance Company, Western Surety Company, CNA Insurance Company Limited and Hardy
Underwriting Bermuda Limited and its subsidiaries (“Hardy”). CNA accounted for 71.6%, 67.8% and 67.7% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

CNA’s insurance products primarily include commercial property and casualty coverages, including surety. CNA’s
services include risk management, information services, warranty and claims administration. CNA’s products and services are primarily marketed through independent agents, brokers and managing general underwriters to a wide variety of customers,
including small, medium and large businesses, insurance companies, associations, professionals and other groups.

Property and Casualty Operations

CNA’s core business, commercial property and casualty insurance operations, includes its Specialty, Commercial
and International lines of business.

Specialty

Specialty provides management and professional liability and other coverages through property and casualty products and
services using a network of brokers, independent agencies and managing general underwriters. Specialty includes the following business groups:

Management& Professional Liability: Management & Professional Liability provides management and
professional liability insurance and risk management services and other specialized property and casualty coverages. This group provides professional liability coverages to various professional firms, including architects, real estate agents,
accounting firms, law firms and other professional firms. Management & Professional Liability also provides directors and officers (“D&O”), employment practices, fiduciary and fidelity coverages. Specific areas of focus include
small andmid-sizefirms, public as well as privately held firms andnot-for-profitorganizations, where







tailored products for these client segments are offered. Products within Management & Professional Liability are distributed through brokers, independent agents and managing general
underwriters. Management & Professional Liability, through CNA HealthCare, also offers insurance products to serve the health care industry. Products include professional and general liability as well as associated standard property and casualty
coverages, and are distributed on a national basis through brokers, independent agents and managing general underwriters. Key customer groups include aging services, allied medical facilities, life sciences, dentists, physicians, hospitals and
nurses and other medical practitioners.

Surety: Surety offers small, medium and large contract and commercial
surety and fidelity bonds. Surety provides surety and fidelity bonds in all 50 states through a network of independent agencies and brokers.

Warranty and Alternative Risks: Warranty and Alternative Risks provides extended service contracts and related products
that provide protection from the financial burden associated with mechanical breakdown and other related losses, primarily for vehicles and portable electronic communication devices.

Commercial

Commercial
works with a network of brokers and independent agents to market a broad range of property and casualty insurance products and services to small, middle-market and large businesses. Property products include standard and excess property, marine and
boiler and machinery coverages. Casualty products include standard casualty insurance products such as workers’ compensation, general and product liability, commercial auto and umbrella coverages. Most insurance programs are provided on a
guaranteed cost basis; however, CNA also offers specialized loss-sensitive insurance programs and total risk management services relating to claim and information services to the large commercial insurance marketplace through a wholly owned
subsidiary, CNA ClaimPlus, Inc., a third party administrator. These property and casualty products are offered through CNA’s Middle Market, Small Business and Other Commercial insurance groups.

International

International provides property and casualty insurance and specialty coverages through a network of brokers, independent
agencies and managing general underwriters, on a global basis through its operations in Canada, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, China and Singapore as well as through its presence at Lloyd’s of London (“Lloyd’s”). The
International business is grouped into broad business units which include Energy & Marine, Property, Casualty, Specialty and Healthcare & Technology, and is managed across three territorial platforms from Head Offices in London and Toronto.

CNA’s property and casualty field structure consists of 49 underwriting locations across the United States. In
addition, there are five centralized processing operations which handle policy processing, billing and collection activities and also act as call centers to optimize service. The claims structure consists of a national claim center designed to
efficiently handle the high volume of low severity claims, including property damage, liability and workers’ compensation medical only claims, and 16 principal claim offices handling the more complex claims. CNA also has a presence in Canada,
Europe, China and Singapore consisting of 17 branch operations and access to business placed at Lloyd’s through Hardy Syndicate 382.

Non-CoreOperations

Non-coreoperations
include CNA’s long term care business that is inrun-off,certain corporate expenses, including interest on CNA corporate debt, and certain property and casualty businesses inrun-off,including CNA Re and asbestos and environmental pollution (“A&EP”).







Direct Written Premiums by Geographic Concentration

Set forth below is the distribution of CNA’s direct written premiums by geographic concentration.



Year Ended December 31201620152014California9.5%9.1%9.1%Texas8.28.18.1Illinois7.67.56.7New York6.97.17.2Florida5.85.75.7Pennsylvania3.73.83.7New Jersey3.13.23.4Canada1.92.22.6All other states, countries or political subdivisions53.353.353.5100.0%100.0%100.0%

Approximately 7.9%, 8.0%, and 8.8% of CNA’s direct written premiums were derived from
outside of the United States for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Other

Competition:The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive both as to rate and
service. CNA competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. Insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength.
Accordingly, CNA must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services.

There
are approximately 2,700 individual companies that sell property and casualty insurance in the United States. Based on 2015 statutory net written premiums, CNA is the eighth largest commercial insurance writer and the 14thlargest property and casualty insurance organization in the United States.

Regulation:The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. Regulatory
oversight by applicable agencies is exercised through review of submitted filings and information, examinations (both financial and market conduct), direct inquiries and interviews. Each domestic and foreign jurisdiction has established supervisory
agencies with broad administrative powers relative to licensing insurers and agents, approving policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing the form and content of statutory financial reports and regulating capital adequacy and the
type, quality and amount of investments permitted. Such regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations, which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory, governance requirements and risk assessment practice
and disclosure. In addition to regulation of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, intercompany transfers of assets may be subject to prior notice or approval by insurance regulators, depending on the size of such transfers and payments in relation
to the financial position of the insurance subsidiaries making the transfer or payment.

Domestic insurers are also
required by state insurance regulators to provide coverage to certain insureds who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such
involuntary risks. CNA’s share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state.

Further, domestic insurance companies are subject to state guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments. Guaranty
funds are governed by state insurance guaranty associations which levy assessments to meet the funding needs of insolvent insurer estates. Other insurance-related assessments are generally levied by state agencies to fund various organizations
including disaster relief funds, rating bureaus, insurance departments, and workers’ compensation second injury funds, or by industry organizations that assist in the statistical analysis and ratemaking process and CNA has the ability to recoup
certain of these assessments from policyholders.







As CNA’s insurance operations are conducted in a multitude of both domestic
and foreign jurisdictions, CNA is subject to a number of regulatory agency requirements applicable to a portion, or all, of its operations. These include, among other things, the State of Illinois Department of Insurance (which is CNA’s global
group-wide supervisor), the U.K. Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the Bermuda Monetary Authority and the Office of Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada.

Hardy, a specialized Lloyd’s underwriter, is also supervised by the Council of Lloyd’s, which is the franchisor for
all Lloyd’s operations. The Council of Lloyd’s has wide discretionary powers to regulate Lloyd’s underwriting, such as establishing the capital requirements for syndicate participation. In addition, the annual business plans of each
syndicate are subject to the review and approval of the Lloyd’s Franchise Board, which is responsible for business planning and monitoring for all syndicates.

Capital adequacy and risk management regulations, referred to as Solvency II, apply to CNA’s European operations and are
enacted by the European Union’s executive body, the European Commission. Additionally, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) continues to consider regulatory proposals addressing group supervision, capital
requirements and enterprise risk management. The U.S. Federal Reserve, the U.S. Federal Insurance Office and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners are working with other global regulators to define such proposals. It is not currently
clear to what extent the IAIS activities will impact CNA as any final proposal would ultimately need to be legislated or regulated by each individual country or state.

Although the U.S. federal government does not currently directly regulate the business of insurance, federal legislative and
regulatory initiatives can impact the insurance industry. These initiatives and legislation include proposals relating to potential federal oversight of certain insurers; terrorism and natural catastrophe exposures; cybersecurity risk management;
federal financial services reforms; and certain tax reforms.

The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of
2015 provides for a federal government backstop for insured terrorism risks through 2020. The mitigating effect of such law is part of the analysis of CNA’s overall risk posture for terrorism and, accordingly, its risk positioning may change if
such law were modified. CNA also continues to invest in the security network of its systems on an enterprise-wide basis, especially considering the implications of data and privacy breaches. This requires an investment of a significant amount of
resources by CNA on an ongoing basis. Potential implications of possible cybersecurity legislation on such current investment, if any, are uncertain. The foregoing laws and proposals, either separately or in the aggregate, create a regulatory and
legal environment that may require changes in CNA’s business plan or significant investment of resources in order to operate in an effective and compliant manner.

Additionally, various legislative and regulatory efforts to reform the tort liability system have, and will continue to,
impact CNA’s industry. Although there has been some tort reform with positive impact to the insurance industry, new causes of action and theories of damages continue to be proposed in court actions and by federal and state legislatures that
continue to expand liability for insurers and their policyholders.

Properties:CNA’s principal
executive offices are based in Chicago, Illinois. CNA’s subsidiaries maintain office space in various cities throughout the United States and various countries. CNA leases all of its office space.

DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC.

Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “Diamond Offshore”) is engaged, through its
subsidiaries, in the business of operating drilling rigs for companies engaged in the offshore exploration and production of hydrocarbons. Diamond Offshore accounted for 12.1%, 18.1% and 19.7% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended
December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Rigs:Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy
industry around the world with a fleet of 24 offshore drilling rigs. Diamond Offshore’s current fleet consists of four drillships, 19 semisubmersible rigs and onejack-uprig. Of the current fleet, as of
January 30, 2017, ten rigs are cold stacked, consisting of four ultra-deepwater, three deepwater and threemid-watersemisubmersible rigs. In December of 2016, Diamond Offshore placed theOcean
GreatWhiteinto service. TheOcean GreatWhiteis currently on standby in Labuan, Malaysia, pending further instructions from BP.







A floater rig is a type of mobile offshore drilling unit that floats and does not
rest on the seafloor. This asset class includes self-propelled drillships and semisubmersible rigs. Semisubmersible rigs consist of an upper working and living deck resting on vertical columns connected to lower hull members. Such rigs operate in a
“semi-submerged” position, remaining afloat, off bottom, in a position in which the lower hull is approximately 55 feet to 90 feet below the water line and the upper deck protrudes well above the surface. Semisubmersibles hold position
while drilling by use of a series of small propulsion units or thrusters that provide dynamic positioning (“DP”) to keep the rig on location, or with anchors tethered to the seabed. Although DP semisubmersibles are self-propelled, such
rigs may be moved long distances with the assistance of tug boats.Non-DP,or moored, semisubmersibles require tug boats or the use of a heavy lift vessel to move between locations.

A drillship is an adaptation of a maritime vessel that is designed and constructed to carry out drilling operations by means
of a substructure with a moon pool centrally located in the hull. Drillships are typically self-propelled and are positioned over a drillsite through the use of a DP system similar to those used on semisubmersible rigs.

Diamond Offshore’s floater fleet (semisubmersibles and drillships) can be further categorized based on the nominal water
depth for each class of rig as follows:



CategoryRated Water Depth (a) (in feet)Number of Units in FleetUltra-Deepwater7,501    to    12,00012Deepwater5,000    to      7,5006Mid-Water400    to      4,9995



(a)Rated water depth for semisubmersibles and drillships reflects the maximum water depth in which a floating rig
has been designed to operate. However, individual rigs are capable of drilling, or have drilled, in marginally greater water depths depending on various conditions (such as salinity of the ocean, weather and sea conditions).

Jack-uprigs are mobile, self-elevating drilling platforms equipped with legs that are
lowered to the ocean floor. Diamond Offshore’sjack-upis used for drilling in water depths from 20 feet to 350 feet. As of January 30, 2017, theOcean Scepter, a cantileveredjack-updrilling rig built in 2008, was offshore Mexico where it was waiting to commence a short-term contract for Fieldwood Energy.

Fleet Enhancements and Additions:Diamond Offshore’s long term strategy is to upgrade its fleet to
meet customer demand for advanced, efficient and high-tech rigs by acquiring or building new rigs when possible to do so at attractive prices, and otherwise by enhancing the capabilities of its existing rigs at a lower cost and shorter construction
period than newbuild construction would require. Since 2009, commencing with the acquisition of two newbuild, ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs, theOcean CourageandOcean Valor, Diamond Offshore has spent over $5.0 billion
towards upgrading its fleet. In 2016, Diamond Offshore took delivery of theOcean GreatWhite, the final rig to be completed during Diamond Offshore’s most recent fleet enhancement cycle.

Diamond Offshore will evaluate further rig acquisition and enhancement opportunities as they arise. However, Diamond Offshore
can provide no assurance whether, or to what extent, it will continue to make rig acquisitions or enhancements to its fleet.

Pressure Control by the Hour:During 2016, Diamond Offshore entered into aten-yearagreement with a subsidiary of GE Oil & Gas, (“GE”), to provide services with respect to certain blowout preventer and related well control equipment on Diamond Offshore’s four
drillships. Such services include management of maintenance, certification and reliability with respect to such equipment. In connection with the services agreement with GE, Diamond Offshore sold the equipment to a GE affiliate and leased back such
equipment under four separateten-yearoperating leases.

Markets:The
principal markets for Diamond Offshore’s contract drilling services are:



●the Gulf of Mexico, including the United States (“U.S.”) and Mexico;



●South America, principally offshore Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago;







●Australia and Southeast Asia, including Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam;



●Europe, principally offshore the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and Norway;



●East and West Africa;



●the Mediterranean; and



●the Middle East.

Diamond Offshore actively markets its rigs worldwide.

Drilling Contracts:Diamond Offshore’s contracts to provide offshore drilling services vary in their terms
and provisions. Diamond Offshore typically obtains its contracts through a competitive bid process, although it is not unusual for Diamond Offshore to be awarded drilling contracts following direct negotiations. Drilling contracts generally provide
for a basic dayrate regardless of whether or not drilling results in a productive well. Drilling contracts generally also provide for reductions in rates during periods when the rig is being moved or when drilling operations are interrupted or
restricted by equipment breakdowns, adverse weather conditions or other circumstances. Under dayrate contracts, Diamond Offshore generally pays the operating expenses of the rig, including wages and the cost of incidental supplies. Historically,
dayrate contracts have accounted for the majority of Diamond Offshore’s revenues. In addition, from time to time, Diamond Offshore’s dayrate contracts may also provide for the ability to earn an incentive bonus from its customer based upon
performance.

The duration of a dayrate drilling contract is generally tied to the time required to drill a single well or
a group of wells, which Diamond Offshore refers to as awell-to-wellcontract, or a fixed period of time, in what Diamond Offshore refers to as a term contract. Many
drilling contracts may be terminated by the customer in the event the drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if drilling operations are suspended for an extended period of time as a result of a breakdown of equipment or, in some cases, due to events
beyond the control of either party to the contract. Certain of Diamond Offshore’s contracts also permit the customer to terminate the contract early by giving notice; in most circumstances, this requires the payment of an early termination fee
by the customer. The contract term in many instances may also be extended by the customer exercising options for the drilling of additional wells or for an additional length of time, generally at competitive market rates and mutually agreeable terms
at the time of the extension. In periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors may prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers may prefer shorter contracts that
allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of declining dayrates. Moreover, drilling contractors may accept lower dayrates in a declining market in order to obtain longer-term contracts and add backlog.

Customers:Diamond Offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and
independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, Diamond Offshore performed services for 18, 19 and 35 different customers. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, one of Diamond Offshore’s customers in
Brazil, Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (“Petrobras”) accounted for 18%, 24% and 32% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues. During 2016 and 2015, Anadarko accounted for 22% and 12% of Diamond Offshore’s annual
consolidated revenues. During 2015, ExxonMobil accounted for 12% of Diamond Offshore’s annual consolidated revenues. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues during 2016, 2015 or
2014.

As of January 1, 2017, Diamond Offshore’s contract backlog was $3.6 billion attributable to 11
customers. All four of its drillships are currently contracted to work in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (“GOM”). As of January 1, 2017, contract backlog attributable to Diamond Offshore’s expected operations in the GOM was
$639 million, $653 million, $554 million and $85 million for the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, all of which was attributable to two customers.







Competition:Despite consolidation in previous years, the
offshore contract drilling industry remains highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. The industry may also experience additional consolidation in the future, which could
create other large competitors. Some of Diamond Offshore’s competitors may have greater financial or other resources than it does. Based on industry data as of the date of this Report, there are approximately 830 mobile drilling rigs in service
worldwide, including approximately 290 floater rigs.

The offshore contract drilling industry is influenced by a number of
factors, including global economies and demand for oil and natural gas, current and anticipated prices of oil and natural gas, expenditures by oil and gas companies for exploration and development of oil and natural gas and the availability of
drilling rigs.

Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price is typically the primary
factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Customers may also consider rig availability and location, a drilling contractor’s operational and safety performance record, and condition and suitability of equipment. Diamond
Offshore believes it competes favorably with respect to these factors.

Diamond Offshore competes on a worldwide basis,
but competition may vary significantly by region at any particular time. Competition for offshore rigs generally takes place on a global basis, as these rigs are highly mobile and may be moved, although at a cost that may be substantial, from one
region to another. It is characteristic of the offshore drilling industry to move rigs from areas of low utilization and dayrates to areas of greater activity and relatively higher dayrates. The current oversupply of offshore drilling rigs also
intensifies price competition.

Governmental Regulation:Diamond Offshore’s operations are subject
to numerous international, foreign, U.S., state and local laws and regulations that relate directly or indirectly to its operations, including regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal andclean-upunder some circumstances, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, and may include laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use.

Operations Outside the United States:Diamond Offshore’s operations outside the U.S. accounted for
approximately 66%, 79% and 85% of its total consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Properties:Diamond Offshore owns an office building in Houston, Texas, where its corporate headquarters are
located, and offices and other facilities in New Iberia, Louisiana, Aberdeen, Scotland, Macae, Brazil and Ciudad del Carmen, Mexico. Additionally, Diamond Offshore currently leases various office, warehouse and storage facilities in Australia,
Louisiana, Malaysia, Singapore, Trinidad and Tobago and the U.K. to support its offshore drilling operations.

BOARDWALK PIPELINE PARTNERS, LP

Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (together with its subsidiaries, “Boardwalk Pipeline”) is engaged, through its
subsidiaries, in the business of natural gas and natural gas liquids and hydrocarbons (herein referred to together as “NGLs”) transportation and storage. Boardwalk Pipeline accounted for 10.0%, 9.3% and 8.6% of our consolidated total
revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

We own approximately 51% of Boardwalk Pipeline
comprised of 125,586,133 common units and a 2% general partner interest. A wholly owned subsidiary of ours, Boardwalk Pipelines Holding Corp. (“BPHC”) is the general partner and also holds all of Boardwalk Pipeline’s incentive
distribution rights which entitle the general partner to an increasing percentage of the cash that is distributed by Boardwalk Pipeline in excess of $0.4025 per unit per quarter.

Boardwalk Pipeline owns and operates approximately 13,930 miles of interconnected natural gas pipelines directly serving
customers in 13 states and indirectly serving customers throughout the northeastern and southeastern U.S. through numerous interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines. Boardwalk Pipeline also owns and operates more than 435 miles of NGL pipelines
in Louisiana and Texas. In 2016, its pipeline systems transported approximately 2.3 trillion cubic feet (“Tcf”) of natural gas and approximately 64.8 million barrels (“MMBbls”) of NGLs. Average daily throughput on Boardwalk
Pipeline’s natural gas pipeline systems during 2016 was







approximately 6.3 billion cubic feet (“Bcf”). Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas storage facilities are comprised of 14 underground storage fields located in four states with
aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 205.0 Bcf and Boardwalk Pipeline’s NGL storage facilities consist of nine salt dome storage caverns located in Louisiana with an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 24.0 MMBbls. Boardwalk
Pipeline also owns three salt dome caverns and a brine pond for use in providing brine supply services and to support the NGL storage operations.

Boardwalk Pipeline’s pipeline and storage systems are described below:

The Gulf South pipeline system runs approximately 7,225 miles along the Gulf Coast in the states of Texas, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. The pipeline system has apeak-daydelivery capacity of 8.3 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2016 was 2.7 Bcf per day. Gulf South
has ten natural gas storage facilities. The two natural gas storage facilities located in Louisiana and Mississippi have approximately 83.5 Bcf of working gas storage capacity and the eight salt dome natural gas storage caverns in Mississippi have
approximately 46.0 Bcf of total storage capacity, of which approximately 29.6 Bcf is working gas capacity. Gulf South also owns undeveloped land which is suitable for up to five additional storage caverns.

The Texas Gas pipeline system runs approximately 6,025 miles and is located in Louisiana, East Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi,
Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio with smaller diameter lines extending into Illinois. The pipeline system has apeak-daydelivery capacity of 5.2 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year
ended December 31, 2016 was 2.4 Bcf per day. Texas Gas owns nine natural gas storage fields with 84.3 Bcf of working gas storage capacity.

The Gulf Crossing pipeline system is located in Texas and runs approximately 375 miles into Louisiana. The pipeline system has
apeak-daydelivery capacity of 1.9 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2016 was 1.1 Bcf per day.

Boardwalk Louisiana Midstream and Boardwalk Petrochemical Pipeline (collectively “Louisiana Midstream”) provide
transportation and storage services for natural gas, NGLs and ethylene, fractionation services for NGLs and brine supply services. These assets provide approximately 71.4 MMBbls of salt dome storage capacity, including approximately 7.6 Bcf of
working natural gas storage capacity, significant brine supply infrastructure, and approximately 270 miles of pipeline assets. Louisiana Midstream owns and operates the Evangeline Pipeline (“Evangeline”), which is an approximately 180 mile
interstate ethylene pipeline that is capable of transporting approximately 2.6 billion pounds of ethylene per year between Texas and Louisiana, where it interconnects with its ethylene distribution system. Throughput for Louisiana Midstream was
64.8 MMBbls for the year ended December 31, 2016.

Boardwalk Field Services operates natural gas gathering,
compression, treating and processing infrastructure primarily in South Texas with approximately 290 miles of pipeline.

Boardwalk Pipeline is also currently engaged in growth projects described below. Several growth projects were placed into
service in 2016, including the Ohio to Louisiana Access, the Southern Indiana Lateral and the Western Kentucky Market Lateral projects and a power plant project in South Texas. These projects were completed on time at an aggregate cost which was
approximately $30 million lower than the $350 million originally estimated. See Liquidity and Capital Resources – Subsidiaries for further discussion of capital expenditures and financing.

Northern Supply Access Project: This project will increase thepeak-daytransmission capacity on Boardwalk Pipeline’s Texas Gas system by the addition of compression facilities and other system modifications to make this portion of the systembi-directionaland is supported
by precedent agreements for approximately 0.3 Bcf per day ofpeak-daytransmission capacity. The project is expected to be placed into service in the second quarter of 2017, with a weighted-average contract
life of 16 years.

Sulphur Storage and Pipeline Expansion Project: Boardwalk Pipeline executed a long term agreement
to provide liquids transportation and storage services to support the development of a new ethane cracker plant in Louisiana. The project will involve significant storage and infrastructure development to serve petrochemical customers near Boardwalk
Pipeline’s Sulphur Hub and is expected to be placed into service in the fourth quarter of 2017.







Coastal Bend Header Project: This project is supported by precedent
agreements with foundation shippers to transport natural gas to serve a planned liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) liquefaction terminal in Freeport, Texas. As part of the project Boardwalk Pipeline will construct an approximately65-milepipeline supply header with approximately 1.4 Bcf per day of capacity to serve the terminal. Additionally, Boardwalk Pipeline will expand and modify its existing Gulf South pipeline facilities that will
provide access to additional supply sources through various interconnects in South Texas and in the Louisiana area. The project is expected to be placed into service in the first half of 2018, with a weighted-average contract life of 20 years.

Customers:Boardwalk Pipeline serves a broad mix of customers, including producers of natural gas, and withend-usecustomers including local distribution companies, marketers, electric power generators, industrial users and interstate and intrastate pipelines who, in turn, provide transportation and storage
services forend-users.These customers are located throughout the Gulf Coast, Midwest and Northeast regions of the U.S.

Competition:Boardwalk Pipeline competes with numerous other pipelines that provide transportation, storage
and other services at many locations along its pipeline systems. Boardwalk Pipeline also competes with pipelines that are attached to natural gas supply sources that are closer to some of its traditional natural gas market areas. In addition,
regulators’ continuing efforts to increase competition in the natural gas industry have increased the natural gas transportation options of Boardwalk Pipeline’s traditional customers. For example, as a result of regulators’ policies,
capacity segmentation and capacity release have created an active secondary market which increasingly competes with Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas pipeline services. Further, natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to
Boardwalk Pipeline’s customers, including electricity, coal, fuel oils and alternative fuel sources.

The principal
elements of competition among pipelines are availability of capacity, rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability of service. In many cases, the elements of competition, in particular flexibility, terms of service
and reliability, are key differentiating factors between competitors. This is especially the case with capacity being sold on a longer term basis. Boardwalk Pipeline is focused on finding opportunities to enhance its competitive profile in these
areas by increasing the flexibility of its pipeline systems, such as modifying them to allow forbi-directionalflows, to meet the demands of customers, such as power generators and industrial users, and is
continually reviewing its services and terms of service to offer customers enhanced service options.

Seasonality:Boardwalk Pipeline’s revenues can be affected by weather, natural gas price levels, gas
price differentials between locations on its pipeline systems (basis spreads), gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads) and natural gas price volatility. Weather impacts natural gas demand
for heating needs and power generation, which in turn influences the short term value of transportation and storage across Boardwalk Pipeline’s pipeline systems. Colder than normal winters can result in an increase in the demand for natural gas
for heating needs and warmer than normal summers can impact cooling needs, both of which typically result in increased pipeline transportation revenues and throughput. While traditionally peak demand for natural gas occurs during the winter months
driven by heating needs, the increased use of natural gas for cooling needs during the summer months has partially reduced the seasonality of revenues. In 2016, approximately 53% of Boardwalk Pipeline’s operating revenues were recognized in the
first and fourth quarters of the year.

Governmental Regulation:



cost-of-service

cost-of-service

cost-of-service







to file a new rate case and Gulf South is prohibited from filing a rate case until May 1, 2023, subject to certain exceptions.

The Surface Transportation Board (“STB”), has authority to regulate the rates
Boardwalk Pipeline charges for service on certain of its ethylene pipelines, while the Louisiana Public Service Commission (“LPSC”) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipeline charges for service on its other NGL pipelines. The STB and LPSC
require that Boardwalk Pipeline’s transportation rates are reasonable and that its practices cannot unreasonably discriminate among its shippers.

Boardwalk Pipeline’s operations are also subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to
protection of the environment. Such laws and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances
and waste and in connection with spills, releases, discharges and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental regulations also require that Boardwalk Pipeline’s facilities, sites and other properties be operated,
maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities.

Many states where Boardwalk
Pipeline operates also have, or are developing, similar environmental or occupational health and safety legal requirements governing many of the same types of activities and those requirements can be more stringent than those adopted under federal
laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these federal, state and local laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of corrective or remedial obligations, the occurrence of
delays in the development or expansion of projects and the issuance of orders enjoining performance of some or all of Boardwalk Pipeline’s operations in the affected areas. Historically, Boardwalk Pipeline’s environmental compliance costs
have not had a material adverse effect on its business, but there can be no assurance that continued compliance with existing requirements will not materially affect them, or that the current regulatory standards will not become more onerous in the
future, resulting in more significant costs to maintain compliance or increased exposure to significant liabilities.







Properties:Boardwalk Pipeline is headquartered in
approximately 103,000 square feet of leased office space located in Houston, Texas. Boardwalk Pipeline also leases approximately 60,000 square feet of office space in Owensboro, Kentucky. Boardwalk Pipeline’s operating subsidiaries own their
respective pipeline systems in fee. However, substantial portions of these systems are constructed and maintained on property owned by others pursuant torights-of-way,easements, permits, licenses or consents.

LOEWS HOTELS HOLDING CORPORATION

Loews Hotels Holding Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “Loews Hotels”), through its subsidiaries,
operates a chain of 25 primarily upper, upscale hotels. Thirteen of these hotels are owned by Loews Hotels, ten are owned by joint ventures in which Loews Hotels has equity interests and two are managed for unaffiliated owners. Loews Hotels’
earnings are derived from the operation of its wholly owned hotels, its share of earnings in joint venture hotels and hotel management fees earned from both joint venture and managed hotels. Loews Hotels accounted for 5.1%, 4.5% and 3.3% of our
consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. The hotels are described below.



Name and LocationNumber ofRoomsOwned:Loews Annapolis Hotel, Annapolis, Maryland215Loews Chicago Hotel, Chicago, Illinois400Loews Chicago O’Hare Hotel, Chicago, Illinois556Loews Coronado Bay Resort, San Diego, California (a)439Loews Miami Beach Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida790Loews Minneapolis Hotel, Minneapolis, Minnesota (a)251Loews Philadelphia Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania581Loews Regency New York Hotel, New York, New York (a)379Loews Regency San Francisco Hotel, San Francisco, California155Hotel 1000, Seattle, Washington120Loews Vanderbilt Hotel, Nashville, Tennessee340Loews Ventana Canyon Resort, Tucson, Arizona398Loews Hotel Vogue, Montreal, Canada142Joint Venture:Hard Rock Hotel, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida650Loews Atlanta Hotel, Atlanta, Georgia414Loews Boston Hotel, Boston, Massachusetts225Loews Don CeSar Hotel, St. Pete Beach, Florida (b)347Loews Hollywood Hotel, Hollywood, California628Loews Madison Hotel, Washington, D.C.356Loews Portofino Bay Hotel, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida750Loews Royal Pacific Resort, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida1,000Loews Sapphire Falls Resort, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida1,000Universal’s Cabana Bay Beach Resort, Orlando, Florida1,800Management Contract:Loews New Orleans Hotel, New Orleans, Louisiana285Loews Santa Monica Beach Hotel, Santa Monica, California347



(a)Subject to a land lease.

(b)Expected to be sold in the first quarter of 2017.

Competition:Competition from other hotels and lodging facilities is vigorous in all areas in which Loews
Hotels operates. The demand for hotel rooms is seasonal and dependent on general and local economic conditions. Loews Hotels properties also compete with facilities offering similar services in locations other than those in which its hotels are
located. Competition among luxury hotels is based primarily on quality of location, facilities and service.







Competition among resort and commercial hotels is based on price and facilities as well as location and service. Because of the competitive nature of the industry, hotels must continually make
expenditures for updating, refurnishing and repairs and maintenance, in order to prevent competitive obsolescence.

Recent
Developments:



●In January of 2016, Loews Hotels acquired a hotel in Seattle, Washington, which is now operating as the Hotel
1000;



●In the third quarter of 2016, the Loews Sapphire Falls Resort, a 1,000 guestroom hotel at Universal Orlando,
opened;



●In the first quarter of 2017, the sale of the Loews Don CeSar Hotel in St. Pete Beach, Florida, a property in
which Loews Hotels has a joint venture interest, is expected to be completed;



●In 2017, Universal Orlando’s Cabana Bay Beach Resort is expected to complete a 400 guestroom expansion;
and



●In 2018, Universal Orlando’s Aventura Hotel, a 600 guestroom hotel, is expected to open. As with Loews
Hotels’ other properties at Universal Orlando, Loews Hotels has a 50% joint venture interest in this hotel.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

Including our operating subsidiaries as described below, we employed approximately 15,800 persons at December 31, 2016.
CNA employed approximately 6,700 persons. Diamond Offshore employed approximately 2,800 persons, including international crew personnel furnished through independent labor contractors. Boardwalk Pipeline employed approximately 1,280 persons,
approximately 110 of whom are union members covered under collective bargaining units. Loews Hotels employed approximately 4,775 persons, approximately 1,760 of whom are union members covered under collective bargaining units. We, and our
subsidiaries, have experienced satisfactory labor relations.







EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



NamePosition and Offices HeldAgeFirstBecameOfficerMarc A. AlpertSenior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary542016David B. EdelsonSenior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer572005Richard W. ScottSenior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer632009Kenneth I. SiegelSenior Vice President592009Andrew H. TischOffice of the President,Co-Chairmanof the Board and
Chairman of the Executive Committee671985James S. TischOffice of the President, President and Chief Executive Officer641981Jonathan M. TischOffice of the President andCo-Chairmanof the
Board631987

Andrew H. Tisch and James S. Tisch are brothers and are cousins of Jonathan M. Tisch. None of
our other executive officers or directors is related to any other.

All of our executive officers, except for Marc A.
Alpert and David B. Edelson, have served in their current roles at the Company for at least the past five years. Prior to assuming his current role at the Company in July of 2016, Mr. Alpert served as a partner and head of the Public Companies
Practice Group at the law firm of Chadbourne & Parke LLP. Mr. Edelson served as our Senior Vice President prior to May of 2014, when he assumed his current role.

Officers are elected annually and hold office until their successors are elected and qualified, and are subject to removal by
the Board of Directors.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our website address is www.loews.com. We make available, free of charge, through the website our Annual Report on Form10-K,Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q,Current Reports on Form8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate
Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee charter, Compensation Committee charter and Nominating and Governance Committee charter have also been posted and are available on our website. Information on or accessible through our website is not
incorporated by reference into this Report.

