Item 1. Business.

We are a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of business:



—commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation, a 90% owned subsidiary);



—operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., a 50.4% owned subsidiary);



—transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids and gathering and processing of natural gas (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, a
53% owned subsidiary);



—exploration, production and marketing of natural gas and oil (including condensate and natural gas liquids), (HighMount Exploration &
Production LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary); and



—operation of a chain of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary).

Please read information relating to our major business segments from which we derive revenue and income contained in Note 21
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included under Item 8.

CNA FINANCIAL CORPORATION

CNA Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “CNA”) was incorporated in 1967 and is an
insurance holding company. CNA’s property and casualty and remaining life & group insurance operations are primarily conducted by Continental Casualty Company (“CCC”), incorporated in 1897, and The Continental Insurance
Company (“CIC”), organized in 1853, and certain other affiliates. CIC became a subsidiary of CNA in 1995 as a result of the acquisition of The Continental Corporation (“Continental”). CNA accounted for 67.2%, 65.6% and 63.4% of
our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.

CNA’s insurance products
primarily include commercial property and casualty coverages, including surety. CNA’s services include risk management, information services, warranty and claims administration. CNA’s products and services are primarily marketed through
independent agents, brokers and managing general underwriters to a wide variety of customers, including small, medium and large businesses, insurance companies, associations, professionals and other groups.

CNA’s property and casualty field structure consists of 49 underwriting locations across the United States. In addition,
there are five centralized processing operations which handle policy processing, billing and collection activities, and also act as call centers to optimize service. The claims structure consists of two regional claim centers designed to efficiently
handle the high volume of low severity claims including property damage, liability, and workers’ compensation medical only claims, and 16 principal claim offices handling the more complex claims. In addition, CNA has underwriting and claim
capabilities in Canada and Europe.

CNA Specialty

CNA Specialty includes the following business groups:

Management & Professional Liability:  Management & Professional Liability provides
management and professional liability insurance and risk management services and other specialized property and casualty coverages in the United States. This group provides professional liability coverages to various professional firms, including
architects, real estate agents, small and mid-sized accounting firms, law firms and other professional firms. Management & Professional Liability also provides directors and officers (“D&O”), employment practices, fiduciary
and fidelity coverages. Specific areas of focus include small and mid-size firms, public as well as privately







held firms and not-for-profit organizations, where tailored products for these client segments are offered. Products within Management & Professional Liability are distributed through
brokers, independent agents and managing general underwriters. Management & Professional Liability, through CNA HealthPro, also offers insurance products to serve the health care industry. Products include professional and general liability
as well as associated standard property and casualty coverages, and are distributed on a national basis through brokers, independent agents and managing general underwriters. Key customer segments include aging services, allied medical facilities,
life sciences, dentists, doctors, hospitals, and nurses and other medical practitioners.

International:  International provides similar management and professional liability insurance and other
specialized property and casualty coverages, through similar distribution channels, in Canada and Europe.

Surety:  Surety offers small, medium and large contract and commercial surety bonds. CNA Surety provides
surety and fidelity bonds in all 50 states through a network of independent agencies. On June 10, 2011, CNA completed the acquisition of the noncontrolling interests of CNA Surety.

Warranty and Alternative Risks:  Warranty and Alternative Risks provides extended service contracts and
related products that provide protection from the financial burden associated with mechanical breakdown and other related losses, primarily for vehicles and portable electronic communication devices.

CNA Commercial

CNA
Commercial’s property products include standard and excess property coverages, as well as marine coverage, and boiler and machinery. Casualty products include standard casualty insurance products such as workers’ compensation, general and
product liability, commercial auto and umbrella coverages. Most insurance programs are provided on a guaranteed cost basis; however, CNA also offers specialized loss-sensitive insurance programs to those customers viewed as higher risk and less
predictable in exposure.

These property and casualty products are offered as part of CNA’sSmall Business,
CommercialandInternationalinsurance groups. CNA’s Small Business insurance group serves its smaller commercial accounts and the Commercial insurance group serves CNA’s middle markets and its larger risks. In addition, CNA
Commercial provides total risk management services relating to claim and information services to the large commercial insurance marketplace, through a wholly owned subsidiary, CNA ClaimPlus, Inc., a third party administrator. CNA also provides
specialized insurance to customers who are generally viewed as higher risk and less predictable in exposure than those covered by standard insurance markets. The International insurance group primarily consists of the commercial product lines of
CNA’s operations in Europe and Canada. During the fourth quarter of 2011, CNA sold its 50% ownership interest in First Insurance Company of Hawaii (“FICOH”).

Hardy

Hardy
Underwriting Bermuda Limited (“Hardy”) is a specialized Lloyd’s of London (“Lloyd’s”) underwriter. Through Lloyd’s Syndicate 382, Hardy underwrites primarily short-tail exposures in the following
coverages:Marine & Aviationprovides coverage for a variety of large risks including energy, cargo and specie, marine hull and general aviation.Non-Marine Propertycomprises direct and facultative property, including
construction insurance of industrial and commercial risks (heavy industry, general manufacturing and commercial property portfolios), together with residential and small commercial risks.Property Treaty Reinsuranceoffers catastrophe
reinsurance on an excess of loss basis, proportional treaty and excess of loss coverages and crop reinsurance.Specialty Linesoffers coverage for a variety of risks including political violence, accident and health and financial
institutions.

Life & Group Non-Core

Life & Group Non-Core primarily includes the results of the life and group lines of business that are in run-off. CNA
continues to service its existing individual long term care commitments, its payout annuity business and its pension deposit business. CNA also retains a block of group reinsurance and life settlement contracts. These businesses are being managed as
a run-off operation. CNA’s group long term care business, while considered non-core, continues to accept new employees in existing groups.







Other

Other primarily includes certain CNA corporate expenses, including interest on CNA corporate debt, and the results of certain
property and casualty business in run-off, including CNA Re and asbestos and environmental pollution (“A&EP”).

Direct Written Premiums
by Geographic Concentration

Set forth below is the distribution of CNA’s direct written premiums by geographic
concentration.



Year Ended December 31201320122011California9.2%9.5%9.4%Texas8.07.46.7New York7.37.16.7Illinois5.96.54.9Florida5.95.86.1New Jersey3.73.53.5Pennsylvania3.73.43.4Canada3.13.03.0All other states, countries or political subdivisions53.253.856.3100.0%100.0%100.0%

Approximately 8.9%, 9.2% and 8.8% of CNA’s direct written premiums were derived from
outside of the United States for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.

Property and Casualty Claim and Claim Adjustment Expenses

The following loss reserve development table illustrates the change over time of reserves established for property
and casualty claim and claim adjustment expenses at the end of the preceding ten calendar years for CNA’s property and casualty insurance companies. The table excludes CNA’s life insurance subsidiaries, and as such, the carried reserves
will not agree to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8. The first section shows the reserves as originally reported at the end of the stated year. The second section, reading down, shows the cumulative amounts paid as of
the end of successive years with respect to the originally reported reserve liability. The third section, reading down, shows re-estimates of the originally recorded reserves as of the end of each successive year, which is the result of CNA’s
property and casualty insurance subsidiaries’ expanded awareness of additional facts and circumstances that pertain to the unsettled claims. The last section compares the latest re-estimated reserves to the reserves originally established, and
indicates whether the original reserves were adequate or inadequate to cover the estimated costs of unsettled claims.







The loss reserve development table is cumulative and, therefore, ending balances
should not be added since the amount at the end of each calendar year includes activity for both the current and prior years.





Schedule of Loss Reserve Development



Year Ended December 3120032004200520062007200820092010(a)20112012(b)2013



(In millions of dollars)



Originally reported gross reserves for unpaid claim and claim adjustment expenses31,28431,20430,69429,45928,41527,47526,71225,41224,22824,69624,015

Originally reported ceded recoverable13,84713,68210,4388,0786,9456,2135,5246,0604,9675,0754,911



Originally reported net reserves for unpaid claim and claim adjustment expenses17,43717,52220,25621,38121,47021,26221,18819,35219,26119,62119,104



Cumulative net paid as of:

One year later4,3822,6513,4424,4364,3083,9303,7623,4724,2774,588-

Two years later6,1044,9637,0227,6767,1276,7466,1746,5047,459--

Three years later7,7807,8259,6209,8229,1028,3408,3748,822---

Four years later10,0859,91411,28911,31210,1219,86310,038----

Five years later11,83411,26112,46511,97311,26211,115-----

Six years later12,98812,22612,91712,85812,252------

Seven years later13,84512,55113,68013,670-------

Eight years later14,07313,24514,409--------

Nine years later14,71313,916---------

Ten years later15,337----------

Net reserves re-estimated as of:

End of initial year17,43717,52220,25621,38121,47021,26221,18819,35219,26119,62119,104

One year later17,67118,51320,58821,60121,46321,02120,64318,92319,08119,506-

Two years later19,12019,04420,97521,70621,25920,47220,23718,73418,946--

Three years later19,76019,63121,40821,60920,75220,01420,01218,514---

Four years later20,42520,21221,43221,28620,35019,78419,758----

Five years later21,06020,30121,32620,98220,15519,597-----

Six years later21,21720,33921,06020,81520,021------

Seven years later21,38120,14220,92620,755-------

Eight years later21,19920,02320,900--------

Nine years later21,10020,054---------

Ten years later21,135----------



Total net (deficiency) redundancy(3,698)(2,532)(644)6261,4491,6651,430838315115-





Reconciliation to gross re-estimated reserves:

Net reserves re-estimated21,13520,05420,90020,75520,02119,59719,75818,51418,94619,506-

Re-estimated ceded recoverable15,85214,70612,0259,6978,2937,2526,5937,0935,8505,531-



Total gross re-estimated reserves36,98734,76032,92530,45228,31426,84926,35125,60724,79625,037-





Total gross (deficiency) redundancy(5,703)(3,556)(2,231)(993)101626361(195)(568)(341)-





Net (deficiency) redundancy related to:

Asbestos(177)(123)(113)(112)(107)(79)-----

Environmental pollution(209)(209)(159)(159)(159)(76)-----



Total asbestos and environmental pollution(386)(332)(272)(271)(266)(155)-----

Core (Non-asbestos and environmental pollution)(3,312)(2,200)(372)8971,7151,8201,430838315115-



Total net (deficiency) redundancy(3,698)(2,532)(644)6261,4491,6651,430838315115-





(a)Effective January 1, 2010, CNA ceded its net asbestos and environmental pollution claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserves under a
retroactive reinsurance agreement as further discussed in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8.

(b)On July 2, 2012, CNA acquired Hardy. As a result of this acquisition, net reserves were increased by $291 million.







Please read information relating to CNA’s property and casualty claim and
claim adjustment expense reserves and reserve development set forth under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”), and in Notes 1 and 9 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, included under Item 8.

Investments

Please read Item 7, MD&A – Investments and Notes 1, 3, 4 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, included under Item 8.

Other

Competition:The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive both as to rate and service.
CNA competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. Insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. CNA must
continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services.

There are approximately 2,800
individual companies that sell property and casualty insurance in the United States. Based on 2012 statutory net written premiums, CNA is the eighth largest commercial insurance writer and the 13th largest property and casualty insurance
organization in the United States.

Regulation:The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and
detailed regulation and supervision. Each domestic and foreign jurisdiction has established supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relative to licensing insurers and agents, approving policy forms, establishing reserve requirements,
prescribing the form and content of statutory financial reports, and regulating capital adequacy and the type, quality and amount of investments permitted. Such regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations, which require that rates not
be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. In addition to regulation of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, intercompany transfers of assets may be subject to prior notice or approval by insurance regulators, depending on the size of such
transfers and payments in relation to the financial position of the insurance subsidiaries making the transfer or payment.

Hardy is also supervised by the Council of Lloyd’s, which is the franchisor for all Lloyd’s operations. The Council
of Lloyd’s has wide discretionary powers to regulate Lloyd’s underwriting, such as establishing the capital requirements for syndicate participation. In addition, the annual business plans of each syndicate are subject to the review and
approval of the Lloyd’s Franchise Board, which is responsible for business planning and monitoring for all syndicates.

The European Union’s executive body, the European Commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management
regulations called Solvency II that would apply to CNA’s European operations. In addition, global regulators, including the United States National Association of Insurance Commissioners, are working with the International Association of
Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) to consider changes to insurance company supervision. Among the areas being addressed are company and group capital requirements, group supervision and enterprise risk management. It is not currently clear to
what extent or how the activities of the IAIS will impact CNA or U.S. insurance regulation.

Domestic insurers are also
required by the state insurance regulators to provide coverage to insureds who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary
risks. CNA’s share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state.

Further, insurance companies are subject to state guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments. Guaranty fund
assessments are levied by the state departments of insurance to cover claims of insolvent insurers. Other insurance-related assessments are generally levied by state agencies to fund various organizations including disaster relief funds, rating
bureaus, insurance departments, and workers’ compensation second injury funds, or by industry organizations that assist in the statistical analysis and ratemaking process.







Although the federal government does not currently directly regulate the business
of insurance, federal legislative and regulatory initiatives can impact the insurance industry. These initiatives and legislation include proposed federal oversight of certain insurers; tort reform proposals; proposals addressing natural catastrophe
exposures; terrorism risk mechanisms; federal financial services reforms; and various tax proposals affecting insurance companies. Any of the foregoing regulatory limitations, impositions and restrictions may result in significant burdens on CNA.

Various legislative and regulatory efforts to reform the tort liability system have, and will continue to, impact
CNA’s industry. Although there has been some tort reform with positive impact to the insurance industry, new causes of action and theories of damages continue to be proposed in state court actions or by federal or state legislatures that
continue to expand liability for insurers and their policyholders.

Properties:The Chicago location
houses CNA’s principal executive offices. CNA’s subsidiaries own or lease office space in various cities throughout the United States and in other countries. The following table sets forth certain information with respect to CNA’s
principal office locations:



SizeLocation(square feet)Principal Usage333 S. Wabash Avenue639,553Principal executive offices of CNAChicago, Illinois2405 Lucien Way113,084Property and casualty insurance officesMaitland, Florida125 S. Broad Street71,847Property and casualty insurance officesNew York, New York101 S. Reid Street61,631Property and casualty insurance officesSioux Falls, South Dakota4150 N. Drinkwater Boulevard56,281Property and casualty insurance officesScottsdale, Arizona401 Penn Street56,009Property and casualty insurance officesReading, Pennsylvania10375 Park Meadows Drive42,968Property and casualty insurance officesLittleton, Colorado675 Placentia Avenue41,340Property and casualty insurance officesBrea, California700 N. Pearl Street37,870Property and casualty insurance officesDallas, Texas1249 S. River Road36,946Property and casualty insurance officesCranbury, New Jersey

CNA leases its office space described above except for the building in Chicago, Illinois,
which is owned.

DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC.

Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (“Diamond Offshore”) is engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the business of
operating drilling rigs that are chartered on a contract basis for fixed terms by companies engaged in the exploration and production of hydrocarbons. Offshore rigs are mobile units that can be relocated based on market demand. Diamond Offshore
accounted for 19.4%, 21.1% and 23.6% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.

Rigs:Diamond Offshore owns 45 offshore drilling rigs, consisting of 33 semisubmersible rigs, seven
jack-ups and five dynamically positioned drillships, three of which are under construction with deliveries scheduled for the second and third quarters of 2014 and the first quarter of 2015. Diamond Offshore’s semisubmersible fleet also includes
theOcean Apex, a moored semisubmersible rig which is under construction and expected to be delivered in the third quarter of 2014, a mid-water floater which is being modified to work in the North Sea, to be completed in the second quarter of
2014 and a dynamically positioned, ultra-deepwater harsh environment semisubmersible







drilling rig, under construction, expected to be delivered in the first quarter of 2016. Diamond Offshore’s diverse fleet enables it to offer a broad range of services worldwide in both the
floater market (ultra-deepwater, deepwater and mid-water) and the non-floater, or jack-up market.

A floater rig is a type
of mobile offshore drilling unit that floats and does not rest on the seafloor. This asset class includes self-propelled drillships and semisubmersible rigs. Semisubmersible rigs consist of an upper working and living deck resting on vertical
columns connected to lower hull members. Such rigs operate in a “semi-submerged” position, remaining afloat, off bottom, in a position in which the lower hull is approximately 55 feet to 90 feet below the water line and the upper deck
protrudes well above the surface. Semisubmersible rigs hold position while drilling by use of a series of small propulsion units or thrusters that provide dynamic positioning (“DP”) to keep the rig on location, or with anchors tethered to
the seabed. Although DP semisubmersibles are self-propelled, such rigs may be moved long distances with the assistance of tug boats. Non-DP, or moored, semisubmersible rigs require tug boats or the use of a heavy lift vessel to move between
locations.

A drillship is an adaptation of a maritime vessel which is designed and constructed to carry out drilling
operations by means of a substructure with a moon pool centrally located in the hull. Drillships are typically self-propelled and are positioned over a drillsite through the use of either an anchoring system or a DP system similar to those used on
semisubmersible rigs.

Diamond Offshore’s floater fleet (semisubmersibles and drillships) can be further categorized
based on the nominal water depth for each class of rig as follows:



CategoryRated Water Depth (a) (in feet)Number of Units in FleetUltra-Deepwater7,501    to    12,00013  (b)Deepwater5,000    to      7,5007  (c)Mid-Water400    to      4,99918



(a)Rated water depth for semisubmersibles and drillships reflects the maximum water depth in which a floating rig has been designed to operate.
However, individual rigs are capable of drilling, or have drilled, in marginally greater water depths depending on various conditions (such as salinity of the ocean, weather and sea conditions).

(b)Includes three drillships and one harsh environment semisubmersible rig under construction.

(c)Includes one rig under construction utilizing the hull of one of Diamond Offshore’s existing mid-water floaters.

Jack-up rigs are mobile, self-elevating drilling platforms equipped with legs that are lowered to the ocean floor. Diamond
Offshore’s jack-ups are used for drilling in water depths from 20 feet to 350 feet. The water depth limit of a particular rig is able to operate is principally determined by the length of the rig’s legs. The rig hull includes the drilling
equipment, jacking system, crew quarters, loading and unloading facilities, storage areas for bulk and liquid materials, heliport and other related equipment. A jack-up rig is towed to the drillsite with its hull riding in the sea, as a vessel, with
its legs retracted. Once over a drillsite, the legs are lowered until they rest on the seabed and jacking continues with the legs penetrating the seabed until they are firm and stable, and resistance is sufficient to elevate the hull above the
surface of the water. After completion of drilling operations, the hull is lowered until it rests in the water and then the legs are retracted for relocation to another drillsite. All of Diamond Offshore’s jack-up rigs are equipped with a
cantilever system that enables the rig to extend its drilling package over the aft end of the rig.

Fleet Enhancements
and Additions:Diamond Offshore’s long term strategy is to upgrade its fleet to meet customer demand for advanced, efficient and high-tech rigs by acquiring or building new rigs when possible to do so at attractive prices, and
otherwise by enhancing the capabilities of its existing rigs at a lower cost and reduced construction period than newbuild construction would require. Since 2009, commencing with the acquisition of two newbuild, ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs,
Diamond Offshore has committed over $5 billion towards upgrading its fleet. TheOcean Onyx, one of its two newest deepwater semisubmersible rigs, was completed in late 2013 and commenced drilling operations under a one-year contract in the
Gulf of Mexico (“GOM”) in early 2014. TheOcean BlackHawk, the first of four new ultra-deepwater drillships, is currently mobilizing to the GOM and is expected to begin working under contract in the second quarter of 2014. Diamond
Offshore also has six other construction/enhancement projects underway including:







—three dynamically positioned, ultra-deepwater drillships with expected completion dates in the second and third quarters of 2014 and the first
quarter of 2015 at an aggregate cost of approximately $1.9 billion;



—a dynamically positioned, ultra-deepwater harsh environment semisubmersible drilling rig with an expected completion date in the first quarter of
2016 at an estimated cost of approximately $755 million;



—a deepwater semisubmersible rig with an expected completion date in the third quarter of 2014 at an estimated cost of approximately $370 million;
and



—enhancements to a mid-water semisubmersible rig that will enable the rig to work in the North Sea with an expected completion date in the second
quarter of 2014 at an estimated cost of approximately $120 million.

Diamond Offshore will evaluate
further rig acquisition and enhancement opportunities as they arise. However, Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance whether, or to what extent, it will continue to make rig acquisitions or enhancements to its fleet.

Markets:The principal markets for Diamond Offshore’s contract drilling services are the following:



—South America, principally offshore Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago;



—Australia and Southeast Asia, including Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam;



—the Middle East;



—Europe, principally in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and Norway;



—East and West Africa;



—the Mediterranean; and



—the Gulf of Mexico, including the U.S. and Mexico.

Diamond Offshore actively markets its rigs worldwide. From time to time Diamond Offshore’s fleet operates in various
other markets throughout the world.

Diamond Offshore believes its presence in multiple markets is valuable in many
respects. For example, Diamond Offshore believes that its experience with safety and other regulatory matters in the U.K. has been beneficial in Australia and other international areas in which Diamond Offshore operates, while production experience
it has gained through its Brazilian and North Sea operations has potential application worldwide. Additionally, Diamond Offshore believes its performance for a customer in one market area enables it to better understand that customer’s needs
and better serve that customer in different market areas or other geographic locations.

Drilling
Contracts:Diamond Offshore’s contracts to provide offshore drilling services vary in their terms and provisions. Diamond Offshore typically obtains its contracts through a competitive bid process, although it is not unusual for
Diamond Offshore to be awarded drilling contracts following direct negotiations. Drilling contracts generally provide for a basic fixed dayrate regardless of whether or not such drilling results in a productive well. Drilling contracts may also
provide for reductions in rates during periods when the rig is being moved or when drilling operations are interrupted or restricted by equipment breakdowns, adverse weather conditions or other circumstances. Under dayrate contracts, Diamond
Offshore generally pays the operating expenses of the rig, including wages and the cost of incidental supplies. Historically, dayrate contracts have accounted for the majority of Diamond Offshore’s revenues. In addition, from time to time,
Diamond Offshore’s dayrate contracts may also provide for the ability to earn an incentive bonus from its customer based upon performance.







The duration of a dayrate drilling contract is generally tied to the time
required to drill a single well or a group of wells, which Diamond Offshore refers to as a well-to-well contract, or a fixed period of time, in what Diamond Offshore refers to as a term contract. Many drilling contracts may be terminated by the
customer in the event the drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if drilling operations are suspended for an extended period of time as a result of a breakdown of equipment or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party to
the contract. Certain of Diamond Offshore’s contracts also permit the customer to terminate the contract early by giving notice, and in most circumstances, this requires the payment of an early termination fee by the customer. The contract term
in many instances may also be extended by the customer exercising options for the drilling of additional wells or for an additional length of time, generally at competitive market rates and mutually agreeable terms at the time of the extension.

Customers:Diamond Offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and
independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. During 2013, 2012 and 2011, Diamond Offshore performed services for 39, 35 and 52 different customers. During 2013, 2012 and 2011, one of Diamond Offshore’s customers in
Brazil, Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (“Petrobras”), (a Brazilian multinational energy company that is majority-owned by the Brazilian government), accounted for 34%, 33% and 35% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated
revenues. OGX Petróleo e Gás Ltda. (“OGX”), (a privately owned Brazilian oil and natural gas company that filed for bankruptcy in October of 2013), accounted for 2%, 12% and 14% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total
consolidated revenues in each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues during 2013, 2012 or 2011.

Brazil is one of the most active floater markets in the world today. Currently, the greatest concentration of Diamond
Offshore’s operating assets is offshore Brazil, where it has ten rigs contracted. Diamond Offshore’s contract backlog attributable to its expected operations offshore Brazil is $953 million, $537 million and $62 million for the years 2014,
2015 and 2016.

Competition:Despite consolidation in previous years, the offshore contract drilling
industry remains highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. The industry may also experience additional consolidation in the future, which could create other large
competitors. Some of Diamond Offshore’s competitors may have greater financial or other resources than Diamond Offshore. Diamond Offshore competes with offshore drilling contractors that together have approximately 600 mobile rigs available
worldwide.

The offshore contract drilling industry is influenced by a number of factors, including global economies and
demand for oil and natural gas, current and anticipated prices of oil and natural gas, expenditures by oil and gas companies for exploration and development of oil and natural gas and the availability of drilling rigs.

Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price is typically the primary factor in determining
which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Customers may also consider rig availability and location, a drilling contractor’s operational and safety performance record, and condition and suitability of equipment. Diamond Offshore believes it
competes favorably with respect to these factors.

Diamond Offshore competes on a worldwide basis, but competition may
vary significantly by region at any particular time. Competition for offshore rigs generally takes place on a global basis, as these rigs are highly mobile and may be moved, at a cost that may be substantial, from one region to another. It is
characteristic of the offshore contract drilling industry to move rigs from areas of low utilization and dayrates to areas of greater activity and relatively higher dayrates. Significant new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling units
could also intensify price competition.

Governmental Regulation:Diamond Offshore’s operations are
subject to numerous international, foreign, U.S., state and local laws and regulations that relate directly or indirectly to its operations, including regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal and
clean-up under some circumstances, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, and may include laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use.







Operations Outside the United States:Diamond Offshore’s
operations outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 89%, 94% and 90% of its total consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.

Properties:Diamond Offshore owns an office building in Houston, Texas, where its corporate headquarters are
located, offices and other facilities in New Iberia, Louisiana, Aberdeen, Scotland, Macae, Brazil and Ciudad del Carmen, Mexico. Additionally, Diamond Offshore currently leases various office, warehouse and storage facilities in Louisiana,
Australia, Indonesia, Norway, Malaysia, Singapore, Egypt, Angola, Vietnam, Thailand, Cameroon, Trinidad and Tobago and the U.K. to support its offshore drilling operations.

BOARDWALK PIPELINE PARTNERS, LP

Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (“Boardwalk Pipeline”) is engaged in integrated natural gas and natural gas liquids
(“NGLs”) transportation and storage and natural gas gathering and processing. Boardwalk Pipeline accounted for 8.2%, 8.1% and 8.1% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.

We own approximately 53% of Boardwalk Pipeline comprised of 125,586,133 common units and a 2% general partner interest. A
wholly owned subsidiary of ours, Boardwalk Pipelines Holding Corp. (“BPHC”) is the general partner and holds all of Boardwalk Pipeline’s incentive distribution rights which entitle the general partner to an increasing percentage of
the cash that is distributed by Boardwalk Pipeline in excess of $0.4025 per unit per quarter.

Boardwalk Pipeline owns and
operates approximately 14,195 miles of interconnected natural gas pipelines directly serving customers in 13 states and indirectly serving customers throughout the northeastern and southeastern United States through numerous interconnections with
unaffiliated pipelines. Boardwalk Pipeline also owns approximately 255 miles of NGL pipelines in Louisiana. In 2013, its pipeline systems transported approximately 2.4 trillion cubic feet (“Tcf”) of natural gas and approximately
7.5 million barrels (“MMbbls”) of NGLs. Average daily throughput on Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas pipeline systems during 2013 was approximately 6.6 billion cubic feet (“Bcf”). Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas
storage facilities are comprised of 14 underground storage fields located in four states with aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 207.0 Bcf and Boardwalk Pipeline’s NGL storage facilities consist of eight salt dome storage caverns
located in Louisiana with an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 17.6 MMbbls. Boardwalk Pipeline also owns two salt dome caverns for use in providing brine supply services and to support the NGL storage operations.

The pipeline and storage systems of Boardwalk Pipeline consist of the following:

The Gulf Crossing pipeline system, which originates in Texas and proceeds into Louisiana, operates approximately 360 miles of
natural gas pipeline. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery capacity of 1.7 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2013 was 1.2 Bcf per day.

The Gulf South pipeline system runs approximately 7,200 miles along the Gulf Coast in the states of Texas, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. Gulf South has two natural gas storage facilities with 83.0 Bcf of working gas storage capacity. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery capacity of 6.9 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year
ended December 31, 2013 was 2.5 Bcf per day.

The Texas Gas pipeline system originates in Louisiana, East Texas and
Arkansas and runs for approximately 6,100 miles north and east through Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, and into Ohio, with smaller diameter lines extending into Illinois. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery
capacity of 4.6 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2013 was 2.6 Bcf per day. Texas Gas owns nine natural gas storage fields with 84.0 Bcf of working gas storage capacity.

Field Services operates natural gas gathering, compression, treating and processing infrastructure primarily in south Texas
with approximately 420 miles of pipeline.







Petal Gas Storage, LLC (formerly referred to as Boardwalk HP Storage Company,
LLC) (“Petal”) owns and operates eight salt dome natural gas storage caverns in Mississippi, with 46.0 Bcf of total storage capacity, of which approximately 29.0 Bcf is working gas capacity. Petal also operates approximately 100 miles of
pipeline which connects its facilities with several major natural gas pipelines, including Gulf South. Average daily throughput for the pipeline system for the year ended December 31, 2013 was 0.2 Bcf per day. Petal also owns undeveloped land
which is suitable for up to five additional storage caverns.

Louisiana Midstream’s storage services provide
approximately 57.8 MMbbls of salt dome storage capacity, including approximately 11.0 Bcf of working natural gas storage capacity and approximately 17.6 MMbbls of salt dome NGL storage capacity, significant brine supply infrastructure including two
salt dome caverns and approximately 270 miles of pipeline assets, including an extensive ethylene distribution system.

Boardwalk Pipeline’s current growth projects and investments include the following:

Southeast Market Expansion: The Southeast Market Expansion project is an interconnection between Boardwalk Pipeline’s
Gulf South pipeline and Petal facilities, additional compression facilities and approximately 70 miles of additional pipeline, adding 0.5 Bcf per day of peak-day transmission capacity. The project, which was approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (“FERC”), is expected to be placed in service in the fourth quarter of 2014 and will cost approximately $300 million. The Southeast Market Expansion project is fully contracted with a weighted average contract life of
approximately 10 years.

Ohio to Louisiana Access Project: Boardwalk Pipeline’s Ohio to Louisiana Access Project
would provide long term firm natural gas transportation from the Marcellus and Utica production areas to Louisiana. This project does not add additional capacity to Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas pipeline systems, but will reverse the
traditional flow of natural gas from northbound to southbound on a portion of its Texas Gas system. The project is supported by firm transportation contracts for 0.6 Bcf of capacity per day with producers and end-users with a weighted average
contract life of approximately 13 years. The project is expected to cost approximately $115 million and is expected to be placed into service in the first half of 2016, subject to FERC approval.

Bluegrass Project: In 2013, Boardwalk Pipeline executed a series of agreements with the Williams Companies, Inc.
(“Williams”) to develop the Bluegrass Project, a joint venture project that would develop a pipeline to transport NGLs from the Marcellus and Utica shale plays to the petrochemical and export complex in the Lake Charles, Louisiana area,
and the construction of related fractionation, storage and liquefied petroleum gas (“LPG”) terminal export facilities.

The proposed project would include constructing a new pipeline that would initially provide producers with 200,000 barrels per
day of mixed NGLs take-away capacity in Ohio, West Virginia and Pennsylvania to an interconnect with the Texas Gas pipeline in Kentucky. Capacity could be increased to 400,000 barrels per day to meet market demand, primarily by adding additional
liquids pumping capacity. From the interconnect with Texas Gas to Louisiana, a portion of the Texas Gas pipeline (“Texas Gas Loop Line”) would be converted from natural gas service to NGLs service. The proposed project would also include
constructing a new large-scale fractionation plant, expanding NGLs storage facilities in Louisiana, constructing a new pipeline connecting these facilities to the converted Texas Gas Loop Line and constructing a new export LPG terminal and related
facilities on the Gulf Coast to provide customers access to international markets.

Boardwalk Pipeline and Williams are
engaged in comprehensive project development activities including project design, cost estimating, economic and risk analysis, permitting, other legal and regulatory approvals and right-of-way acquisition. Boardwalk Pipeline and Williams are also
continuing ongoing discussions with potential customers regarding commitments for pipeline, fractionation, storage and export services to support this project. As of December 31, 2013, Boardwalk Pipeline and BPHC have contributed a total of $79
million to the project for pre-construction development costs.







Approval and completion of this project is subject to, among other conditions,
execution of customer contracts sufficient to support the project, acquisition of right-of-way along the pipeline route, and the parties’ receipt of all necessary approvals, including board approvals and regulatory approvals, such as antitrust
clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and approvals by the FERC, among others. Before the Texas Gas Loop Line can be converted to NGLs service, abandonment authority must be received from FERC. The abandonment application
was filed with FERC in May of 2013 and Boardwalk Pipeline estimates the abandonment process will take at least twelve months. In addition, each of the parties has the right, under certain circumstances, to withdraw from the project or from portions
of the project, in which case the project may be terminated, only portions of the project may be completed, or the parties respective ownership interests in the project may change. Boardwalk Pipeline and Williams are continuing to evaluate all
aspects of the project, including the anticipated date the project would be placed in service if it is completed.

Customers:Boardwalk Pipeline serves a broad mix of customers, including producers of natural gas,
local distribution companies, marketers, electric power generators, industrial users and interstate and intrastate pipelines, located throughout the Gulf Coast, Midwest and Northeast regions of the U.S.

Competition:Boardwalk Pipeline competes with numerous other pipelines that provide transportation,
storage and other services at many locations along its pipeline systems. Boardwalk Pipeline also competes with pipelines that are attached to new natural gas supply sources that are being developed closer to some of its traditional natural gas
market areas. In addition, regulators’ continuing efforts to increase competition in the natural gas industry have increased the natural gas transportation options of Boardwalk Pipeline’s traditional customers. As a result of
regulators’ policies, capacity segmentation and capacity release have created an active secondary market which increasingly competes with Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas pipeline services. Further, natural gas competes with other forms of
energy available to Boardwalk Pipeline’s customers, including electricity, coal, fuel oils and alternative fuel sources.

The principal elements of competition among pipelines are available capacity, rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies,
flexibility and reliability of service. In many cases, the elements of competition, in particular flexibility, terms of service and reliability, are key differentiating factors between competitors. This is especially the case with capacity being
sold on a longer term basis. Boardwalk Pipeline is focused on finding opportunities to enhance its competitive profile in these areas by increasing the flexibility of its pipeline systems to meet the demands of customers, such as power generators
and industrial users, and is continually reviewing its services and terms of service to offer customers enhanced service options.

Seasonality:Boardwalk Pipeline’s revenues can be affected by weather, natural gas price levels,
basis spreads and time period price spreads and natural gas price volatility. Weather impacts natural gas demand for heating needs and power generation, which in turn influences the short term value of transportation and storage across Boardwalk
Pipeline’s pipeline systems. Colder than normal winters can result in an increase in the demand for natural gas for heating needs and warmer than normal summers can impact cooling needs, both of which typically result in increased pipeline
transportation revenues and throughput. While traditionally peak demand for natural gas occurs during the winter months driven by heating needs, the increased use of natural gas for cooling needs during the summer months has partially reduced the
seasonality of revenues. In 2013, approximately 53% of Boardwalk Pipeline’s revenue was recognized in the first and fourth quarters of the year.

Governmental Regulation:FERC regulates Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas operating subsidiaries
under the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”) of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act (“NGPA”) of 1978. FERC regulates, among other things, the rates and charges for the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce and the
extension, enlargement or abandonment of facilities under its jurisdiction. Where required, Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas interstate subsidiaries hold certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by FERC covering certain of their
facilities, activities and services. The maximum rates that may be charged by Boardwalk Pipeline’s subsidiaries operating under FERC’s jurisdiction, for all aspects of the natural gas transportation services it provides, are established
through FERC’s cost-of-service rate-making process. The maximum rates that may be charged by Boardwalk Pipeline for storage services on Texas Gas, with the exception of services associated with a portion of the working gas capacity on that
system, are established through FERC’s cost-of-service rate-making process. Key determinants in FERC’s cost-of-service rate-making process are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the
allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return







a pipeline is permitted to earn. FERC has authorized Boardwalk Pipeline to charge market-based rates for its firm and interruptible storage services for the majority of its storage facilities.
None of Boardwalk Pipeline’s FERC-regulated entities has an obligation to file a new rate case.

Boardwalk Pipeline’s operations are also subject to
extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. Such laws and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use,
storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases, discharges and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental regulations also require that Boardwalk
Pipeline’s facilities, sites and other properties be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities.

Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal
penalties, the imposition of corrective or remedial obligations and the issuance of orders enjoining performance of some or all of Boardwalk Pipeline’s operations. While Boardwalk Pipeline believes that they are in substantial compliance with
existing environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not materially affect them, there is no assurance that the current regulatory standards will not become more onerous in the future, resulting
in more significant costs to maintain compliance or increased exposure to significant liabilities.

Properties:Boardwalk Pipeline is headquartered in approximately 108,000 square feet of leased office
space located in Houston, Texas. Boardwalk Pipeline also leases approximately 60,000 square feet of office space in Owensboro, Kentucky. Boardwalk Pipeline’s operating subsidiaries own their respective pipeline systems in fee. However,
substantial portions of these systems are constructed and maintained on property owned by others pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses or consents.

HIGHMOUNT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION LLC

HighMount Exploration & Production, LLC (“HighMount”) is engaged in the exploration, production and
marketing of natural gas and oil (including condensate and NGLs). HighMount accounted for 1.7%, 2.0% and 2.5% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.

HighMount’s proved reserves and production are primarily located in the Sonora field, a tight sands gas formation within
the Permian Basin in West Texas. HighMount holds mineral rights on over 500,000 net acres in the Permian Basin, with approximately 6,000 producing wells. In addition, HighMount has working interests in undeveloped oil and gas properties located on
approximately 67,000 net acres in Oklahoma which contain primarily oil reserves.







HighMount’s interests in developed and undeveloped acreage, wellbores and
well facilities generally take the form of working interests in leases that have varying terms. HighMount’s interests in these properties are, in many cases, held jointly with third parties and may be subject to royalty, overriding royalty,
carried, net profits and other similar interests and contractual arrangements with other parties as is customary in the oil and gas industry. HighMount also owns and operates approximately 3,200 miles of gathering lines and operates over 58,000
horsepower of compression which are used to transport natural gas and NGLs principally from HighMount’s producing wells to processing plants and pipelines owned by third parties.

We use the following terms throughout this discussion of HighMount’s business, with “equivalent” volumes
computed with oil and NGL quantities converted to Mcf, on an energy equivalent ratio of one barrel to six Mcf:





Average price-Average price during the twelve-month period, prior to the date of the estimate, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month
price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements with customers, excluding escalations based upon future conditions

Bbl-Barrel (of oil or NGLs)

Bcf-Billion cubic feet (of natural gas)

Bcfe-Billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent

Developed acreage-Acreage assignable to productive wells

Gross acres-Total acres in which HighMount owns a working interest

Gross wells-Total number of wells in which HighMount owns a working interest

Mcf-Thousand cubic feet (of natural gas)

Mcfe-Thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent

MMBbl-Million barrels (of oil or NGLs)

MMBtu-Million British thermal units

MMcf-Million cubic feet (of natural gas)

MMcfe-Million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent

Net acres-The sum of all gross acres covered by a lease or other arrangement multiplied by the working interest owned by HighMount in such gross acreage

Net wells-The sum of all gross wells multiplied by the working interest owned by HighMount in such wells

NGL-Natural Gas Liquids – largely ethane and propane as well as some heavier hydrocarbons

Productive wells-Producing wells and wells mechanically capable of production

Proved reserves-Quantities of natural gas, NGLs and oil which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in
the future from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations

Proved developed reserves-Proved reserves which can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment, infrastructure and operating methods

Proved undeveloped reserves-Proved reserves which are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is
required

Tcf-Trillion cubic feet (of natural gas)

Tcfe-Trillion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent

Undeveloped acreage-Acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of economic quantities of oil or gas

As of December 31, 2013, HighMount owned 719.3 Bcfe of net proved reserves, of which
92.7% were classified as proved developed reserves. HighMount’s estimated total proved reserves consist of 514.5 Bcf of natural gas, 30.7 MMBbls of NGLs, and 3.4 MMBbls of oil and condensate. HighMount produced approximately 133 MMcfe per day
of net natural gas, NGLs and oil during 2013. HighMount holds leasehold or drilling rights in 0.7 million net acres, of which 0.5 million is developed acreage and the balance is held for future exploration and development drilling
opportunities. HighMount participated in the drilling of 60 wells during 2013, of which 57 (or 95.0%) are productive wells.







Recent Developments:The growth in recent years in the
production of natural gas and natural gas liquids from new supply areas across the United States, some of which are closer to traditional high value end markets and are less expensive to produce than HighMount’s production, continues to depress
the prices of those commodities. This trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future as production from basins such as the Marcellus Shale and Utica Shale is forecasted to increase significantly over the next several years. As a result of
these prevailing low commodity prices, it is not currently economical for HighMount to drill new natural gas wells in the Sonora field. In 2012, HighMount ceased drilling new gas wells and is now solely pursuing a strategy of seeking to develop
resource plays expected to be rich in oil, which has not experienced the dramatic price declines of natural gas and natural gas liquids.

In 2011, HighMount acquired acreage in Oklahoma with non-proven oil resources in the Mississippian Lime and Woodford Shale
formations. More recently, HighMount has been seeking to develop oil reserves in the Wolfcamp zone of its Sonora acreage. HighMount has drilled a number of exploratory wells in these plays using various horizontal drilling, fracturing and well
completion techniques, which are far more expensive to drill than its traditional vertical natural gas wells in the Sonora field. HighMount is not currently drilling new wells on its Oklahoma properties and has one drilling rig working in the
Wolfcamp area. To date, these exploratory wells have not yielded sufficient quantities of oil to support commercial development of these properties. Further study and refinement of drilling techniques will be required in order to determine whether
there is an economic development opportunity.

In light of these developments, HighMount recorded a goodwill impairment
charge of $584 million ($382 million after tax) in 2013. See the Results of Operations by Business Segment section of this MD&A and Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 for additional information.

Reserves:HighMount’s reserves represent its share of reserves based on its net revenue
interest in each property. Estimated reserves as of December 31, 2013 are based upon studies for each of HighMount’s properties prepared by HighMount staff engineers and are the responsibility of management. Calculations were prepared
using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) guidelines.

HighMount employs various internal controls to validate the reserve estimation process. The main internal controls include
(i) detailed reviews of reserve-related information by reserve engineering and executive management, (ii) reserve audits performed by an independent third party reserve auditor, (iii) segregation of duties, and (iv) system
reconciliation or automated interface between various systems used in the reserve estimation process.

HighMount employs a
team of reservoir engineers that specialize in HighMount’s areas of operation. The reservoir engineering team reports to HighMount’s Chief Operating Officer. The compensation of HighMount’s reservoir engineers is not dependent on the
quantity of reserves booked. HighMount’s lead evaluator has over seven years of petroleum engineering experience, most of which have been in the reservoir engineering and reserve fields. He is a member in good standing of and has held
leadership roles in the Society of Petroleum Engineers.

HighMount’s reserves estimates for 2013 have been
independently audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (“NSAI”), a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and governmental agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs
consulting services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No. F-2699. The technical person primarily responsible for NSAI’s audit and audit letter has over 30 years of industry experience and has been practicing consulting
petroleum engineering at NSAI since 1989.







The following table sets forth HighMount’s proved reserves at
December 31, 2013, based on average 2013 prices of $3.67 per MMBtu for natural gas, $35.39 per Bbl for NGLs and $96.94 per Bbl for oil. Approximately 99% of HighMount’s proved reserves are located in the Permian Basin in Texas and
approximately 1% of proved reserves are located in Oklahoma.



Natural GasNatural GasNGLsOilEquivalents(MMcf)(Bbls)(Bbls)(MMcfe)Proved developed484,92227,571,4352,761,873666,922Proved undeveloped29,5743,143,804654,87052,366Total proved514,49630,715,2393,416,743719,288

HighMount reviews its proved reserves during the fourth quarter of each year. During 2013,
HighMount produced 48 Bcfe and recorded negative net reserve revisions of 79 Bcfe due to a reclassification of proved undeveloped reserves to the non-proved category due to variability in well performance primarily in the Mississippian Lime and
reduction in drilling plans, driven by continued low natural gas and NGL prices. Estimated net quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 and changes in the reserves during 2013, 2012 and 2011 are
shown in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8.

HighMount’s Sonora
natural gas-producing properties typically have relatively long reserve lives and high well completion success rates. Based on December 31, 2013 proved reserves and HighMount’s average production from these properties during 2013, the
average reserve-to-production index of HighMount’s proved reserves is 15 years.

In order to replenish reserves as
they are depleted by production, and to increase reserves, and if determined to be economical, HighMount develops its existing acreage by drilling new wells and, where available, employing new technologies and drilling strategies designed to enhance
production from existing wells. In addition, HighMount may seek to acquire additional acreage in its core areas of operation, as well as other locations where its management has identified an opportunity. As noted above, HighMount is not currently
drilling new natural gas wells and is pursuing a limited drilling program seeking to develop additional oil reserves.

During 2013, 2012 and 2011, HighMount engaged in the drilling activity presented in the following table:



Year Ended December 31201320122011GrossNetGrossNetGrossNetDevelopment WellsProductive Wells5745.38378.54646.0Dry Wells33.088.055.0Total Development Wells6048.39186.55151.0Exploratory WellsProductive Wells109.5Dry Wells22.0Total Exploratory Wells1211.5Total Completed Wells6048.39186.56362.5

In addition, at December 31, 2013, HighMount had 14 (13.8 net) wells in progress.

As of December 31, 2013, HighMount had working interests in approximately 6,000 gross producing wells (approximately
5,700 net producing wells) located primarily in the Permian Basin. In addition, HighMount had royalty interests in approximately 249 wells located in the Permian Basin. Wells located in the Permian Basin have a typical well depth in the range of
6,000 to 9,000 feet.







Acreage:As of December 31, 2013, HighMount owned
interests in 1,055,799 gross (657,354 net) acres in the United States which is comprised of 615,282 gross (474,947 net) developed acres, and 440,517 gross (182,407 net) undeveloped acres.

Leases covering 18,956, 45,804 and 8,150 of HighMount’s net acreage will expire during the years ended December 31,
2014, 2015 and 2016, if production is not established or HighMount takes no other action to extend the terms.

Production and Sales:Please see the Production and Sales statistics table for additional information
included in the MD&A under Item 7.

HighMount utilizes its own marketing and sales personnel to market the
natural gas and oil that it produces to large energy companies and intrastate pipelines and gathering companies. Production is typically sold and delivered directly to a pipeline at liquid pooling points or at the tailgates of various processing
plants, where it then enters a pipeline system. Permian Basin natural gas sales prices are primarily at a Houston Ship Channel Index.

To manage the risk of fluctuations in prevailing commodity prices, HighMount enters into commodity and basis swaps and other
derivative instruments.

Competition:HighMount competes with other oil and gas companies in all aspects
of its business, including acquisition of producing properties and leases and obtaining goods, services and labor, including drilling rigs and well completion services. HighMount also competes in the marketing of produced natural gas and oil. Some
of HighMount’s competitors have substantially larger financial and other resources than HighMount. Factors that affect HighMount’s ability to acquire producing properties include available funds, available information about the property
and standards established by HighMount for minimum projected return on investment. Natural gas and oil also compete with alternative fuel sources, including heating oil and coal.

Governmental Regulation:All of HighMount’s operations are conducted onshore in the United States. The
U.S. oil and gas industry, and HighMount’s operations, are subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level. Such regulation includes requirements with respect to, among other things: permits to drill and to conduct other
operations; provision of financial assurances (such as bonds) covering drilling and well operations; the location of wells; the method of drilling and completing wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the
plugging and abandoning of wells; the marketing, transportation and reporting of production; the valuation and payment of royalties; the size of drilling and spacing units (regarding the density of wells which may be drilled in a particular area);
the unitization or pooling of natural gas and oil properties; maximum rates of production from natural gas and oil wells; venting or flaring of natural gas; and the ratability of production and the operation of gathering systems and related assets.

HighMount uses hydraulic fracturing to stimulate the production of oil and natural gas. In recent years, concerns have
been raised that the fracturing process may, among other things, contaminate underground sources of drinking water. The conference committee report for The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal
Year 2010 requested the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) to conduct a study of hydraulic fracturing, particularly the relationship between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water. In December of 2012 the EPA issued a
progress report of the projects the EPA is conducting as part of the study. A final draft report is expected to be released for public comment and peer review in 2014. Several bills have been introduced in Congress seeking federal regulation of
hydraulic fracturing, which has historically been regulated at the state level, though none of the proposed legislation has been passed into law. HighMount believes that similar bills will continue to be introduced in Congress and a number of
federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing; however, HighMount cannot predict whether any such bill will be passed into law or, if passed, the substance of
any such new law.

The Federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the NGA to prohibit natural gas market manipulation by
any entity, directed the FERC to facilitate market transparency in the sale or transportation of physical natural gas and significantly increased the penalties for violations of the NGA of 1938, the NGPA of 1978, or FERC regulations or orders
thereunder. In addition, HighMount owns and operates gas gathering lines and related facilities which are regulated by the DOT and state agencies with respect to safety and operating conditions.







HighMount’s operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws and
regulations concerning the discharge of contaminants into the environment, the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of contaminants, and the protection of public health, natural resources, wildlife and the environment. In most instances,
the regulatory requirements relate to the handling and disposal of drilling and production waste products, water and air pollution control procedures, and the remediation of petroleum-product contamination. In addition, HighMount’s operations
may require it to obtain permits for, among other things, air emissions, discharges into surface waters, and the construction and operation of underground injection wells or surface pits to dispose of produced saltwater and other non-hazardous
oilfield wastes. HighMount could be required, without regard to fault or the legality of the original disposal, to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes, to suspend or cease operations in contaminated areas or to perform remedial well
plugging operations or cleanups to prevent future contamination.

In September of 2009, the EPA adopted regulations under
the Clean Air Act requiring the monitoring and reporting of annual greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions by certain large U.S. GHG emitters. Affected companies are required to monitor their GHG emissions and report to the EPA. Oil and gas
exploration and production companies that emit more than 25,000 metric tons of GHG per year from any facility (as defined in the regulations), including HighMount, are required to monitor and report emissions for facilities that meet the emissions
threshold. HighMount filed its GHG report in March of 2013 for the 2012 reporting year.

Properties:In
addition to its interests in oil and gas producing properties, HighMount leases an aggregate of approximately 56,300 square feet of office space in Houston, Texas, which includes its corporate headquarters, and approximately 83,800 square feet of
office space in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. HighMount also leases other surface rights and office, warehouse and storage facilities necessary to operate its business. In addition to leased properties, HighMount also owns a 44,000 square foot office
building in Sonora, Texas, and a 1,500 square foot office building in Morrison, Oklahoma.







LOEWS HOTELS HOLDING CORPORATION

The subsidiaries of Loews Hotels Holding Corporation (“Loews Hotels”), our wholly owned subsidiary, presently
operate a chain of 18 primarily upper, upscale hotels. Each hotel in the chain is managed by Loews Hotels. Seven of these hotels are owned by Loews Hotels, seven are owned by joint ventures in which Loews Hotels has a significant equity interest and
four are managed for unaffiliated owners. Loews Hotels’ earnings are derived from the operation of its wholly owned hotels, its share of earnings in joint venture hotels and hotel management fees earned from both joint venture and managed
hotels. Loews Hotels accounted for 2.5%, 2.7% and 2.4% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. The hotels are described below.



Name and LocationNumber ofRoomsOwned (a):Loews Annapolis Hotel, Annapolis, Maryland220Loews Coronado Bay, San Diego, California (b)440Loews Miami Beach Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida790Loews Philadelphia Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania585Loews Regency Hotel, New York, New York (c)379Loews Vanderbilt Hotel, Nashville, Tennessee340Loews Hotel Vogue, Montreal, Canada140Joint Venture/Managed:The Don CeSar, a Loews Hotel, St. Pete Beach, Florida347Hard Rock Hotel, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida650Loews Boston Hotel, Boston, Massachusetts225Loews Hollywood Hotel, Hollywood, California632Loews Madison Hotel, Washington, D.C.356Loews Portofino Bay Hotel, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida750Loews Royal Pacific Resort, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida1,000Management Contract:Loews Atlanta Hotel, Atlanta, Georgia414Loews New Orleans Hotel, New Orleans, Louisiana285Loews Santa Monica Beach Hotel, Santa Monica, California340Loews Ventana Canyon, Tucson, Arizona400



(a)In February of 2014, the Loews LeConcorde Hotel in Quebec City, Canada was closed.

(b)The hotel has a land lease expiring in 2034.

(c)The hotel has a land lease expiring in 2036 with a renewal option for 24 years.

Under Construction:In 2013, Loews Hotels is a 50% partner in a joint venture which is constructing Cabana Bay Beach
Resort, an 1,800 guestroom hotel at Universal Orlando, Florida. The first phase is expected to open early in 2014. Construction continues on the Loews Chicago Hotel, a 400 guestroom hotel which Loews Hotels agreed to purchase, upon completion of
development expected to occur early in 2015.







Competition:Competition from other hotels and lodging facilities is
vigorous in all areas in which Loews Hotels operates. The demand for hotel rooms in many areas is seasonal and dependent on general and local economic conditions. Loews Hotels properties also compete with facilities offering similar services in
locations other than those in which its hotels are located. Competition among luxury hotels is based primarily on location and service. Competition among resort and commercial hotels is based on price as well as location and service. Because of the
competitive nature of the industry, hotels must continually make expenditures for updating, refurnishing and repairs and maintenance, in order to prevent competitive obsolescence.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

Including our operating subsidiaries as described below, we employed approximately 18,175 persons at December 31, 2013.
We, and our subsidiaries, have experienced satisfactory labor relations.

CNA employed approximately 7,035 persons.

Diamond Offshore employed approximately 5,500 persons, including international crew personnel furnished through independent
labor contractors.

Boardwalk Pipeline employed approximately 1,200 persons, approximately 110 of whom are union members
covered under collective bargaining units.

HighMount employed approximately 400 persons.

Loews Hotels employed approximately 3,780 persons, approximately 1,100 of whom are union members covered under collective
bargaining units.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



FirstBecameNamePosition and Offices HeldAgeOfficerDavid B. EdelsonSenior Vice President542005Gary W. GarsonSenior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary671988Peter W. KeeganSenior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer691997Richard W. ScottSenior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer602009Kenneth I. SiegelSenior Vice President562009Andrew H. TischOffice of the President, Co-Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Executive Committee641985James S. TischOffice of the President, President and Chief Executive Officer611981Jonathan M. TischOffice of the President and Co-Chairman of the Board601987

Andrew H. Tisch and James S. Tisch are brothers and are cousins of Jonathan M. Tisch. None of
the other officers or directors of Registrant is related to any other.

All of our executive officers except for Kenneth
I. Siegel have been engaged actively and continuously in our business for more than the past five years. Prior to joining us in 2009, Mr. Siegel was employed as a Managing Director in the Mergers & Acquisitions Department at Barclays
Capital Inc. and previously in a similar capacity at Lehman Brothers.

Officers are elected and hold office until their
successors are elected and qualified, and are subject to removal by the Board of Directors.







AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our website address is www.loews.com. We make available, free of charge, through the website our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after these
reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee charter, Compensation Committee charter and Nominating and Governance Committee
charter have also been posted and are available on our website.

