Item 1. Business.

Loews Corporation was incorporated in 1969 and is a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of
business:



•commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation, a 89% owned subsidiary);



•operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., a 53% owned subsidiary);



•transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, a 51%
owned subsidiary);



•operation of a chain of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary); and



•manufacture of rigid plastic packaging solutions (Consolidated Container Company LLC, a 99% owned subsidiary).

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Report to “Loews Corporation,”
“the Company,” “Parent Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or like terms refer to the business of Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries.

On May 22, 2017, we completed the acquisition of CCC Acquisition Holdings, Inc. for $1.2 billion, subject to
post-closing adjustments. CCC Acquisition Holdings, Inc., through its wholly owned subsidiary, Consolidated Container Company LLC (“Consolidated Container”), is a rigid plastic packaging and recycled resins manufacturer that provides
packaging solutions to end markets such as beverage, food and household chemicals through a network of manufacturing locations across North America. The acquisition was funded with approximately $620 million of Parent Company cash and debt
financing proceeds at Consolidated Container of $600 million. For further information about this acquisition, see Notes 2 and 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8.

We have five reportable segments comprised of CNA Financial Corporation, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., Boardwalk Pipeline
Partners, LP, Loews Hotels Holding Corporation and the Corporate segment. The operations of Consolidated Container since the acquisition date are included in the Corporate segment. Each of our operating subsidiaries is headed by a chief executive
officer who is responsible for the operation of its business and has the duties and authority commensurate with that position. Additional financial information on each of our segments is included under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”).

CNA FINANCIAL CORPORATION

CNA Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “CNA”) is an insurance holding company.
CNA’s property and casualty and remaining life and group insurance operations are primarily conducted by Continental Casualty Company (“CCC”), The Continental Insurance Company, Western Surety Company, CNA Insurance Company
Limited and Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Limited and its subsidiaries (“Hardy”). CNA accounted for 69.8%, 71.6% and 67.8% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

CNA’s insurance products primarily include commercial property and casualty coverages, including surety. CNA’s
services include warranty, risk management, information services, and claims administration. CNA’s products and services are primarily marketed through independent agents, brokers and managing general underwriters to a wide variety of
customers, including small, medium and large businesses, insurance companies, associations, professionals and other groups.







Property and Casualty Operations

CNA’s commercial property and casualty insurance operations (“Property and Casualty Operations”) includes its
Specialty, Commercial and International lines of business.

Specialty

Specialty provides management and professional liability and other coverages through property and casualty products and
services using a network of brokers, independent agencies and managing general underwriters. Specialty includes the following business groups:

Management& Professional Liability: Management & Professional Liability provides
management and professional liability insurance and risk management services and other specialized property and casualty coverages. This group provides professional liability coverages to various professional firms, including architects, real estate
agents, accounting firms, law firms and other professional firms. Management & Professional Liability also provides directors and officers (“D&O”), employment practices, fiduciary and fidelity coverages. Specific areas of
focus include small andmid-sizefirms, public as well as privately held firms andnot-for-profitorganizations, where tailored
products for these client segments are offered. Products within Management & Professional Liability are distributed through brokers, independent agents and managing general underwriters. Management & Professional Liability also
offers insurance products to serve the health care industry. Products include professional and general liability as well as associated standard property and casualty coverages, and are distributed on a national basis through brokers, independent
agents and managing general underwriters. Key customer groups include aging services, allied medical facilities, life sciences, dentists, physicians, hospitals and nurses and other medical practitioners.

Surety: Surety offers small, medium and large contract and commercial surety and fidelity bonds. Surety provides
surety and fidelity bonds in all 50 states through a network of independent agencies and brokers.

Warranty and
Alternative Risks:Warranty and Alternative Risks provides extended service contracts and related products that provide protection from the financial burden associated with mechanical breakdown and other related losses, primarily for
vehicles and cell phones.

Commercial

Commercial works with a network of brokers and independent agents to market a broad range of property and casualty insurance
products and services to small, middle-market and large businesses. Property products include standard and excess property, marine and boiler and machinery coverages. Casualty products include standard casualty insurance products such as
workers’ compensation, general and product liability, commercial auto and umbrella coverages. Most insurance programs are provided on a guaranteed cost basis; however, CNA also offers specialized loss-sensitive insurance programs and total risk
management services relating to claim and information services to the large commercial insurance marketplace. These property and casualtyproducts are offered through CNA’s Middle Market, Small Business and Other Commercial insurance
groups.

International

International provides property and casualty insurance and specialty coverages through a network of brokers, independent
agencies and managing general underwriters, on a global basis through its operations in Canada, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), Continental Europe and Singapore as well as through its presence at Lloyd’s of London
(“Lloyd’s”). The International business is grouped into broad business units which include Energy & Marine, Property, Casualty, Specialty and Healthcare & Technology, and is managed across three underwriting
platforms from Head Offices in London and Toronto.







Property and Casualty Structure

CNA’s Property and Casualty Operations field structure consists of 49 underwriting locations across the United States
(“U.S.”). In addition, there are five centralized processing operations which handle policy processing, billing and collection activities and also act as call centers to optimize service. CNA’s claim presence consists of six primary
locations where it handles multiple claim types and key business functions. Additionally, claim maintains regional offices which are aligned with CNA’s underwriting field structure. CNA also has a presence in Canada, Europe and Singapore
consisting of 17 branch operations and access to business placed at Lloyd’s through Hardy Syndicate 382.

Other Insurance Operations

Other Insurance Operations include CNA’s long term care business that is inrun-off,certain corporate expenses, including interest on CNA corporate debt, and certain property and casualty businesses inrun-off,including CNA Re and asbestos and
environmental pollution (“A&EP”).

Direct Written Premiums by Geographic Concentration

Set forth below is the distribution of CNA’s direct written premiums by geographic concentration.



Year Ended December 31201720162015California9.7%9.5%9.1%Texas8.58.28.1New York7.26.97.1Illinois6.47.67.5Florida5.75.85.7Pennsylvania3.83.73.8New Jersey3.23.13.2Canada2.21.92.2All other states, countries or political
subdivisions53.353.353.3100.0%100.0%100.0%

Approximately 7.7%, 7.9% and 8.0% of CNA’s direct written premiums were derived from
outside of the United States for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Other

Competition:The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive both as to rate and
service. CNA competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. Insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength.
Accordingly, CNA must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services.

There
are approximately 2,600 individual companies that sell property and casualty insurance in the United States. Based on 2016 statutory net written premiums, CNA is the eighth largest commercial insurer in the United States of America.

Regulation:The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. Regulatory
oversight by applicable agencies is exercised through review of submitted filings and information, examinations (both financial and market conduct), direct inquiries and interviews. Each domestic and foreign jurisdiction has established supervisory
agencies with broad administrative powers relative to licensing insurers and agents, approving policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing the form and content of statutory financial reports and regulating capital adequacy and the
type, quality and amount of investments permitted. Such regulatory powers also extend to governance requirements and risk assessment practices and disclosures and premium rate regulations requiring rates not to be excessive, inadequate or unfairly
discriminatory. In addition to regulation of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, intercompany transfers of assets may be subject to prior notice or







approval by insurance regulators, depending on the size of such transfers and payments in relation to the financial position of the insurance subsidiaries making the transfer or payment.

Domestic insurers are also required by state insurance regulators to provide coverage to certain insureds who would not
otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. CNA’s share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function
of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state.

Further, domestic insurance companies
are subject to state guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments. Guaranty funds are governed by state insurance guaranty associations which levy assessments to meet the funding needs of insolvent insurer estates. Other insurance-related
assessments are generally levied by state agencies to fund various organizations including disaster relief funds, rating bureaus, insurance departments, and workers’ compensation second injury funds, or by industry organizations that assist in
the statistical analysis and ratemaking process and CNA has the ability to recoup certain of these assessments from policyholders.

As CNA’s insurance operations are conducted in a multitude of both domestic and foreign jurisdictions, CNA is subject to
a number of regulatory agency requirements applicable to a portion, or all, of its operations. These include, but are not limited to, the State of Illinois Department of Insurance (which is CNA’s global group-wide supervisor), the U.K.
Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the Bermuda Monetary Authority and the Office of Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada.

Hardy, a specialized Lloyd’s underwriter, is also supervised by the Council of Lloyd’s, which is the franchisor for
all Lloyd’s operations. The Council of Lloyd’s has wide discretionary powers to regulate Lloyd’s underwriting, such as establishing the capital requirements for syndicate participation. In addition, the annual business plans of each
syndicate are subject to the review and approval of the Lloyd’s Franchise Board, which is responsible for business planning and monitoring for all syndicates.

Capital adequacy and risk management regulations, referred to as Solvency II, apply to CNA’s European operations and are
enacted by the European Commission, the executive body of the European Union (“E.U.”). Additionally, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) continues to consider regulatory proposals addressing group
supervision, capital requirements and enterprise risk management. The U.S. Federal Reserve, the U.S. Federal Insurance Office and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) are working with other global regulators to
define such proposals. It is not currently clear to what extent the IAIS activities will affect CNA as any final proposal would ultimately need to be legislated or regulated by each individual country or state.

However, there have been definitive developments recently with respect to prudential insurance supervision. On
September 22, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department, the U.S. Trade Representative (“USTR”) and the E.U. announced they had formally signed a covered agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance (“Covered
Agreement”). The Covered Agreement requires U.S. states to prospectively eliminate the requirement that domestic insurance companies must obtain collateral from reinsurance companies that are not licensed in their state (“alien
reinsurers”) in order to obtain reserve credit under statutory accounting. In exchange, the E.U. will not impose local presence requirements on U.S. firms operating in the E.U., and effectively must defer to U.S. group capital regulation for
these firms. The Treasury Department and USTR also released a U.S. policy statement clarifying their interpretation of the Covered Agreement in several key areas, including capital, group supervision and reinsurance.

Because the Covered Agreement is not self-executing, U.S. state laws will need to be revised to change reinsurance collateral
requirements to conform to the Covered Agreement. Before any such revision to state laws can be advanced, the NAIC must develop a new approach for determination of the appropriate reserve credit under statutory accounting for E.U.-based alien
reinsurers. In addition, the NAIC is currently developing an approach to group capital regulation as the current U.S. regulatory regime is based on legal entity regulation. Both the reinsurance collateral requirement change and adoption of group
capital regulation must be affected by the states within five years from the signing of the Covered Agreement, or states risk federal preemption. CNA will monitor the modification of state laws and regulations in order to comply with the provisions
of the Covered Agreement and assess its potential effects on the operations and prospects of CNA.







Although the U.S. federal government does not currently directly regulate the
business of insurance, federal legislative and regulatory initiatives can affect the insurance industry. These initiatives and legislation include proposals relating to potential federal oversight of certain insurers; terrorism and natural
catastrophe exposures; cybersecurity risk management; federal financial services reforms; and certain tax reforms.

The
Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 provides for a federal government backstop for insured terrorism risks through 2020. The mitigating effect of such law is part of the analysis of CNA’s overall risk posture for
terrorism and, accordingly, its risk positioning may change if such law were modified.

CNA also continues to invest in
the security network of its systems on an enterprise-wide basis, especially considering the implications of data and privacy breaches. This requires an investment of a significant amount of resources by CNA on an ongoing basis. Potential
implications of possible cybersecurity legislation on such current investment, if any, are uncertain.

The foregoing laws
and proposals, either separately or in the aggregate, create a regulatory and legal environment that may require changes in CNA’s business plan or significant investment of resources in order to operate in an effective and compliant manner.

Additionally, various legislative and regulatory efforts to reform the tort liability system have, and will continue to,
affect CNA’s industry. Although there has been some tort reform with positive impact to the insurance industry, new causes of action and theories of damages continue to be proposed in court actions and by federal and state legislatures that
continue to expand liability for insurers and their policyholders.

Properties:CNA’s principal
executive offices are based in Chicago, Illinois. CNA’s subsidiaries maintain office space in various cities throughout the United States and various countries. CNA leases all of its office space.

DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC.

Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “Diamond Offshore”) provides contract drilling
services to the energy industry around the world with a fleet of 17 offshore drilling rigs consisting of four drillships and seven ultra-deepwater, four deepwater and twomid-watersemisubmersible rigs.
Diamond Offshore accounted for 10.9%, 12.1% and 18.1% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

A floater rig is a type of mobile offshore drilling rig that floats and does not rest on the seafloor. This asset class
includes self-propelled drillships and semisubmersible rigs. Semisubmersible rigs are comprised of an upper working and living deck resting on vertical columns connected to lower hull members. Such rigs operate in a “semi-submerged”
position, remaining afloat, off bottom, in a position in which the lower hull is approximately 55 feet to 90 feet below the water line and the upper deck protrudes well above the surface. Semisubmersibles hold position while drilling by use of a
series of small propulsion units or thrusters that provide dynamic positioning (“DP”) to keep the rig on location, or with anchors tethered to the seabed. Although DP semisubmersibles are self-propelled, such rigs may be moved long
distances with the assistance of tug boats.Non-DP,or moored, semisubmersibles require tug boats or the use of a heavy lift vessel to move between locations.

A drillship is an adaptation of a maritime vessel that is designed and constructed to carry out drilling operations by means
of a substructure with a moon pool centrally located in the hull. Drillships are typically self-propelled and are positioned over a drillsite through the use of a DP system similar to those used on semisubmersible rigs.







Diamond Offshore’s fleet can be further categorized based on the nominal
water depth for each class of rig as follows:



CategoryRated Water Depth (a) (in feet)Number of Units in FleetUltra-Deepwater7,501    to    12,00011Deepwater5,000    to      7,5004Mid-Water400    to      4,9992



(a)Rated water depth for semisubmersibles and drillships reflects the maximum water depth in which a floating rig
has been designed to operate. However, individual rigs are capable of drilling, or have drilled, in marginally greater water depths depending on various conditions (such as salinity of the ocean, weather and sea conditions).

Fleet Enhancements and Additions:Diamond Offshore’s long-term strategy is to upgrade its fleet to meet
customer demand for advanced, efficient and high-tech rigs by acquiring or building new rigs when possible to do so at attractive prices. Diamond Offshore’s most recent fleet enhancement cycle was completed in 2016 with the delivery of theOcean GreatWhite.

Diamond Offshore continues to evaluate further rig acquisition and enhancement opportunities as
they arise. However, Diamond Offshore can provide no assurance whether, or to what extent, it will continue to make rig acquisitions or enhancements to its fleet.

Pressure Control by the Hour:In 2016, Diamond Offshore entered into aten-yearcollaborative arrangement with a subsidiary of GE Oil & Gas (“GE”) to monitor the blowout preventer equipment and proactively manage the maintenance, certification and reliability
of such equipment on its rigs. In connection with the services agreement with GE, Diamond Offshore sold the equipment to a GE affiliate and leased back such equipment under four separateten-yearoperating
leases.

Markets:The principal markets for Diamond Offshore’s contract drilling services are:



•the Gulf of Mexico, including the U.S. and Mexico;



•South America, principally offshore Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago;



•Australia and Southeast Asia, including Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam;



•Europe, principally offshore the U.K. and Norway;



•East and West Africa;



•the Mediterranean; and



•the Middle East.

Diamond Offshore actively markets its rigs worldwide.

Drilling Contracts:Diamond Offshore’s contracts to provide offshore drilling services vary in their terms
and provisions. Diamond Offshore typically obtains its contracts through a competitive bid process, although it is not unusual for Diamond Offshore to be awarded drilling contracts following direct negotiations. Drilling contracts generally provide
for a basic dayrate regardless of whether or not drilling results in a productive well. Drilling contracts generally also provide for reductions in rates during periods when the rig is being moved or when drilling operations are interrupted or
restricted by equipment breakdowns, adverse weather conditions or other circumstances. Under dayrate contracts, Diamond Offshore generally pays the operating expenses of the rig, including wages and the cost of incidental supplies. Historically,
dayrate contracts have accounted for the majority of Diamond Offshore’s revenues. In addition, from time to time, Diamond Offshore’s dayrate contracts may also provide for the ability to earn an incentive bonus from its customer based upon
performance.







The duration of a dayrate drilling contract is generally tied to the time
required to drill a single well or a group of wells, which Diamond Offshore refers to as awell-to-wellcontract, or a fixed period of time, in what Diamond Offshore
refers to as a term contract. Many drilling contracts may be terminated by the customer in the event the drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if drilling operations are suspended for an extended period of time as a result of a breakdown of equipment
or, in some cases, due to events beyond the control of either party to the contract. Certain of Diamond Offshore’s contracts also permit the customer to terminate the contract early by giving notice; in most circumstances, this requires the
payment of an early termination fee by the customer. The contract term in many instances may also be extended by the customer exercising options for the drilling of additional wells or for an additional length of time, generally at competitive
market rates and mutually agreeable terms at the time of the extension. In periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors may prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while
customers may prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of declining dayrates. Moreover, drilling contractors may accept lower dayrates in a declining market in order to obtain longer-term contracts and add backlog.

Customers:Diamond Offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and
independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. During 2017, 2016 and 2015, Diamond Offshore performed services for 14, 18 and 19 different customers. During 2017, 2016 and 2015, Anadarko accounted for 25%, 22%, and 12% of
Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues and Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. accounted for 19%, 18%, and 24% of Diamond Offshore’s annual total consolidated revenues. During 2017, Hess Corporation and BP each accounted for 16%
of Diamond Offshore’s annual consolidated revenues. During 2015, ExxonMobil accounted for 12% of Diamond Offshore’s annual consolidated revenues. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of Diamond Offshore’s annual total
consolidated revenues during 2017, 2016 or 2015.

As of January 1, 2018, Diamond Offshore’s contract backlog was
$2.4 billion attributable to 13 customers. All four of its drillships are currently contracted to work in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico (“GOM”). As of January 1, 2018, contract backlog attributable to Diamond Offshore’s expected
operations in the GOM was $653 million, $554 million and $86 million for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, all of which was attributable to two customers.

Competition:Based on industry data as of the date of this Report, there are approximately 800 mobile
drilling rigs in service worldwide, including approximately 260 floater rigs. Despite consolidation in previous years, the offshore contract drilling industry remains highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the
present time has a dominant market share. Some of Diamond Offshore’s competitors may have greater financial or other resources than it does.

Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price is typically the primary factor in determining
which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Customers may also consider rig availability and location, a drilling contractor’s operational and safety performance record, and condition and suitability of equipment. Diamond Offshore believes it
competes favorably with respect to these factors.

Diamond Offshore competes on a worldwide basis, but competition may
vary significantly by region at any particular time. Competition for offshore rigs generally takes place on a global basis, as these rigs are highly mobile and may be moved, although at a cost that may be substantial, from one region to another. It
is characteristic of the offshore drilling industry to move rigs from areas of low utilization and dayrates to areas of greater activity and relatively higher dayrates. The current oversupply of offshore drilling rigs also intensifies price
competition.

Governmental Regulation:Diamond Offshore’s operations are subject to numerous
international, foreign, U.S., state and local laws and regulations that relate directly or indirectly to its operations, including regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal andclean-upunder some circumstances, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, and may include laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use.

Operations Outside the United States:Diamond Offshore’s operations outside the U.S. accounted for
approximately 58%, 66% and 79% of its total consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.







Properties:Diamond Offshore owns an office building in Houston,
Texas, where its corporate headquarters are located, and offices and other facilities in New Iberia, Louisiana, Aberdeen, Scotland, Macae, Brazil and Ciudad del Carmen, Mexico. Additionally, Diamond Offshore currently leases various office,
warehouse and storage facilities in Australia, Louisiana, Malaysia, Singapore and the U.K. to support its offshore drilling operations.

BOARDWALK PIPELINE PARTNERS, LP

Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (together with its subsidiaries, “Boardwalk Pipeline”) is engaged in the business of
natural gas and natural gas liquids and hydrocarbons (herein referred to together as “NGLs”) transportation and storage. Boardwalk Pipeline accounted for 9.6%, 10.0% and 9.3% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended
December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

We own approximately 51% of Boardwalk Pipeline comprised of 125,586,133 common
units and a 2% general partner interest. A wholly owned subsidiary of ours, Boardwalk Pipelines Holding Corp. (“BPHC”) is the general partner and also holds all of Boardwalk Pipeline’s incentive distribution rights which entitle the
general partner to an increasing percentage of the cash that is distributed by Boardwalk Pipeline in excess of $0.4025 per unit per quarter.

Boardwalk Pipeline owns and operates approximately 13,880 miles of interconnected natural gas pipelines directly serving
customers in 13 states and indirectly serving customers throughout the northeastern and southeastern U.S. through numerous interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines. Boardwalk Pipeline also owns and operates approximately 455 miles of NGL
pipelines in Louisiana and Texas. In 2017, its pipeline systems transported approximately 2.3 trillion cubic feet (“Tcf”) of natural gas and approximately 64.7 million barrels (“MMBbls”) of NGLs. Average daily throughput on
Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas pipeline systems during 2017 was approximately 6.4 billion cubic feet (“Bcf”). Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas storage facilities are comprised of 14 underground storage fields located in
four states with aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 205.0 Bcf and Boardwalk Pipeline’s NGL storage facilities consist of nine salt dome storage caverns located in Louisiana with an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 24.5
MMBbls. Boardwalk Pipeline also owns three salt dome caverns and related brine infrastructure for use in providing brine supply services and to support the NGL storage operations.

Boardwalk Pipeline’s pipeline and storage systems are described below:

The Gulf South pipeline system runs approximately 7,275 miles along the Gulf Coast in the states of Texas, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. The pipeline system has apeak-daydelivery capacity of 8.3 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2017 was 2.8 Bcf per day. Gulf South
has ten natural gas storage facilities. The two natural gas storage facilities located in Louisiana and Mississippi have approximately 83.5 Bcf of working gas storage capacity and the eight salt dome natural gas storage caverns in Mississippi have
approximately 46.0 Bcf of total storage capacity, of which approximately 29.6 Bcf is working gas capacity. Gulf South also owns undeveloped land which is suitable for up to five additional storage caverns.

The Texas Gas pipeline system runs approximately 5,980 miles and is located in Louisiana, East Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi,
Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio with smaller diameter lines extending into Illinois. The pipeline system has apeak-daydelivery capacity of 5.6 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year
ended December 31, 2017 was 2.4 Bcf per day. Texas Gas owns nine natural gas storage fields with 84.3 Bcf of working gas storage capacity.

The Gulf Crossing pipeline system is located in Texas and runs approximately 375 miles into Louisiana. The pipeline system has
apeak-daydelivery capacity of 1.9 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2017 was 1.1 Bcf per day.

Boardwalk Louisiana Midstream and Boardwalk Petrochemical Pipeline (collectively “Louisiana Midstream”) provide
transportation and storage services for natural gas, NGLs and ethylene, fractionation services for NGLs and brine supply services. These assets provide approximately 78.0 MMBbls of salt dome storage capacity, including approximately 7.6 Bcf of
working natural gas storage capacity, significant brine supply infrastructure, and approximately 290 miles of pipeline assets. Louisiana Midstream owns and operates the Evangeline Pipeline (“Evangeline”), which is an approximately 180 mile
interstate ethylene pipeline that is capable of transporting







approximately 2.6 billion pounds of ethylene per year between Texas and Louisiana, where it interconnects with its ethylene distribution system. Throughput for Louisiana Midstream was 64.7
MMBbls for the year ended December 31, 2017.

Boardwalk Texas Intrastate, LLC (“Texas Intrastate”) provides
intrastate natural gas transportation services on approximately 235 miles of pipeline located in South Texas. Texas Intrastate is situated to provide access to industrial and liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) export markets, proposed power
plants and third-party pipelines for exports to Mexico.

Boardwalk Pipeline has been engaged in several growth projects.
Several of these growth projects were placed into service in 2016, including the Ohio to Louisiana Access, the Southern Indiana Lateral and the Western Kentucky Market Lateral projects and a power plant project in South Texas. In 2017, the Northern
Supply Access Project and portions of the Coastal Bend Header and Sulphur Storage and Pipeline Expansion projects were placed into service. In 2018, Boardwalk Pipeline signed a precedent agreement for a new project on its Gulf South system that will
serve a proposed power plant in Texas. The project will provide approximately 0.2 Bcf/d of firm transportation service by adding compression at an existing compressor station and constructing a lateral. The cost of this project is expected to be
approximately $100 million and has a proposedin-servicedate in 2020. This project remains subject to customary approvals. See Liquidity and Capital Resources – Subsidiaries for further discussion
of capital expenditures and financing.

Customers:Boardwalk Pipeline serves a broad mix of customers,
including producers of natural gas, and withend-usecustomers, including local distribution companies, marketers, electric power generators, industrial users and interstate and intrastate pipelines who, in
turn, provide transportation and storage services forend-users.These customers are located throughout the Gulf Coast, Midwest and Northeast regions of the U.S.

Competition:Boardwalk Pipeline competes with numerous other pipelines that provide transportation, storage
and other services at many locations along its pipeline systems. Boardwalk Pipeline also competes with pipelines that are attached to natural gas supply sources that are closer to some of its traditional natural gas market areas. In addition,
regulators’ continuing efforts to increase competition in the natural gas industry have increased the natural gas transportation options of Boardwalk Pipeline’s traditional customers. For example, as a result of regulators’ policies,
capacity segmentation and capacity release have created an active secondary market which increasingly competes with Boardwalk Pipeline’s natural gas pipeline services. Further, natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to
Boardwalk Pipeline’s customers, including electricity, coal, fuel oils and alternative fuel sources.

The principal
elements of competition among pipelines are availability of capacity, rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability of service. In many cases, the elements of competition, in particular, flexibility, terms of service
and reliability, are key differentiating factors between competitors. This is especially the case with capacity being sold on a longer term basis. Boardwalk Pipeline is focused on finding opportunities to enhance its competitive profile in these
areas by increasing the flexibility of its pipeline systems, such as modifying them to allow forbi-directionalflows, to meet the demands of customers, such as power generators and industrial users, and is
continually reviewing its services and terms of service to offer customers enhanced service options.

Seasonality:Boardwalk Pipeline’s revenues can be affected by weather, natural gas price levels, gas
price differentials between locations on its pipeline systems (basis spreads), gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads) and natural gas price volatility. Weather impacts natural gas demand
for heating needs and power generation, which in turn influences the short term value of transportation and storage across Boardwalk Pipeline’s pipeline systems. Colder than normal winters can result in an increase in the demand for natural gas
for heating needs and warmer than normal summers can impact cooling needs, both of which typically result in increased pipeline transportation revenues and throughput. While traditionally peak demand for natural gas occurs during the winter months
driven by heating needs, the increased use of natural gas for cooling needs during the summer months has partially reduced the seasonality of revenues. In 2017, approximately 53% of Boardwalk Pipeline’s operating revenues were recognized in the
first and fourth quarters of the year.

Governmental Regulation:The Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (“FERC”) regulates Boardwalk Pipeline’s interstate natural gas operating subsidiaries under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (“NGPA”). The FERC regulates, among other things, the
rates and charges for the transportation and







cost-of-service

cost-of-service

cost-of-service

The Surface Transportation Board (“STB”), has authority to regulate the rates Boardwalk Pipeline charges for
service on certain of its ethylene pipelines, while the Louisiana Public Service Commission (“LPSC”) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipeline charges for service on its other NGL pipelines. The STB and LPSC require that Boardwalk
Pipeline’s transportation rates are reasonable and that its practices cannot unreasonably discriminate among its shippers.







Boardwalk Pipeline’s operations are also subject to extensive federal,
state, and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment and occupational health and safety. Such laws and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation,
handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases, discharges and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental regulations also require
that Boardwalk Pipeline’s facilities, sites and other properties be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Occupational health and safety regulations establish standards
protective of workers, both generally and within the pipeline industry.

Many states where Boardwalk Pipeline operates
also have, or are developing, similar environmental or occupational health and safety legal requirements governing many of the same types of activities and those requirements can be more stringent than those adopted under federal laws and
regulations. Failure to comply with these federal, state and local laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of corrective or remedial obligations, the occurrence of delays in
permitting or the development or expansion of projects and the issuance of orders enjoining performance of some or all of Boardwalk Pipeline’s operations in the affected areas. Historically, Boardwalk Pipeline’s environmental compliance
costs have not had a material adverse effect on its business, but there can be no assurance that continued compliance with existing requirements will not materially affect them, or that the current regulatory standards will not become more onerous
in the future, resulting in more significant costs to maintain compliance or increased exposure to significant liabilities.

Properties:Boardwalk Pipeline is headquartered in approximately 103,000 square feet of leased office space
located in Houston, Texas. Boardwalk Pipeline also leases approximately 60,000 square feet of office space in Owensboro, Kentucky. Boardwalk Pipeline’s operating subsidiaries own their respective pipeline systems in fee. However, substantial
portions of these systems are constructed and maintained on property owned by others pursuant torights-of-way,easements, permits, licenses or consents.







LOEWS HOTELS HOLDING CORPORATION

Loews Hotels Holding Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “Loews Hotels & Co”) operates a chain of
24 deluxe and luxury hotels. Thirteen of these hotels are owned by Loews Hotels & Co, eight are owned by joint ventures in which Loews Hotels & Co has equity interests and three are managed for unaffiliated owners. Loews
Hotels & Co’s earnings are derived from the operation of its wholly owned hotels, its share of earnings in joint venture hotels and hotel management fees earned from both joint venture and managed hotels. Loews Hotels & Co
accounted for 5.0%, 5.1% and 4.5% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. The hotels are described below.



Name and LocationNumber ofRoomsOwned:Loews Annapolis Hotel, Annapolis, Maryland215Loews Chicago Hotel, Chicago, Illinois400Loews Chicago O’Hare Hotel, Chicago, Illinois556Loews Coronado Bay Resort, San Diego, California (a)439Loews Miami Beach Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida790Loews Minneapolis Hotel, Minneapolis, Minnesota (a)251Loews Philadelphia Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania581Loews Regency New York Hotel, New York, New York (a)379Loews San Francisco Hotel, San Francisco, California155Loews Hotel 1000, Seattle, Washington120Loews Vanderbilt Hotel, Nashville, Tennessee340Loews Ventana Canyon Resort, Tucson, Arizona398Loews Hotel Vogue, Montreal, Canada142Joint Venture:Hard Rock Hotel, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida650Loews Atlanta Hotel, Atlanta, Georgia414Loews Boston Hotel, Boston, Massachusetts225Loews Hollywood Hotel, Hollywood, California628Loews Portofino Bay Hotel, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida750Loews Royal Pacific Resort, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida1,000Loews Sapphire Falls Resort, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida1,000Universal’s Cabana Bay Beach Resort, Orlando, Florida2,200Management Contract:Bisha Hotel and Residences, Toronto, Canada96Loews New Orleans Hotel, New Orleans, Louisiana285Loews Santa Monica Beach Hotel, Santa Monica, California347



(a)Owned hotels subject to a land lease.

Competition:Competition from other hotels and lodging facilities is vigorous in all areas in which Loews
Hotels & Co operates. The demand for hotel rooms is seasonal and dependent on general and local economic conditions. Loews Hotels & Co properties also compete with facilities offering similar services in locations other than those
in which its hotels are located. Competition among luxury hotels is based primarily on quality of location, facilities and service. Competition among resort and commercial hotels is based on price and facilities as well as location and service.
Because of the competitive nature of the industry, hotels must continually make expenditures for updating, refurnishing and repairs and maintenance in order to prevent competitive obsolescence.







Recent Developments and Growth Projects:



•In 2017, the sales and culmination of managing the Loews Don CeSar Hotel in St. Pete Beach, Florida and Loews
Madison Hotel in Washington, D.C., properties in which Loews Hotels & Co had manager and joint venture interests, were completed;



•In 2017, Universal Orlando’s Cabana Bay Beach Resort completed a 400 guestroom expansion;



•In 2018, Universal Orlando’s Aventura Hotel, a 600 guestroom hotel, is expected to open. As with Loews
Hotels & Co’s other properties at Universal Orlando, Loews Hotels & Co has a manager and 50% joint venture interest in this hotel;



•In 2019, Live! By Loews in Arlington, Texas, an approximately 300 guestroom hotel in which Loews
Hotels & Co has a manager and joint venture interest, is expected to be completed;



•In 2019 and 2020, two hotels to be named at Universal Orlando, with approximately 2,800 guestrooms, are
expected to open. As with Loews Hotels & Co’s other properties at Universal Orlando, Loews Hotels & Co has a manager and 50% joint venture interest in these hotels;



•In 2020, Loews Kansas City Hotel in Kansas City, Missouri, an approximately 800 guestroom hotel in which Loews
Hotels & Co has a manager and 91.6% equity interest, is expected to be completed; and



•In 2020, Live! by Loews in St. Louis, Missouri, an approximately 216 guestroom hotel in which Loews
Hotels & Co has a manager and joint venture interest, is expected to be completed.

CONSOLIDATED CONTAINER COMPANY LLC

Consolidated Container manufactures rigid plastic packaging and recycled resins to provide packaging solutions to end markets
such as beverage, food and household chemicals through a network of manufacturing locations across North America. Consolidated Container develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of extrusion blow-molded and injection molded plastic containers
for target markets. In addition, Consolidated Container manufactures commodity and differentiated plastic resins from recycled plastic materials for a variety of end markets. Consolidated Container accounted for 3.6% of our consolidated total
revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017.

Customers: Consolidated Container sells its products to
approximately 1,280 customers throughout North America. Consolidated Container’s largest customers for rigid packaging include a diverse customer base of many nationally recognized branded food, beverage and consumer products companies. The
recycled resins customer base is primarily domestic with customers in several end markets such as packaging, automotive, industrial and consumer goods. Dean Foods Company represented approximately 11% of net sales, since the date of acquisition, for
the year ended December 31, 2017. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of Consolidated Container’s net sales for the period.

Competition: Consolidated Container faces competition throughout its product lines from a number of regional and local
manufacturers, including smaller firms operating in similar geographic regions and well-established businesses operating nationally. Consolidated Container believes that its long term success is largely dependent on its ability to continue to
address logistically complex and technically demanding customer needs, maintain strong relationships with current customers, attract new customers, develop product innovations, provide superior service to its customers and reduce its cost structure.

Properties: Consolidated Container leases its corporate offices in Atlanta, Georgia and Omaha, Nebraska. It
operates 56 manufacturing facilities located throughout the United States and one facility located in Canada, of which 52 are leased and five are owned. In addition, Consolidated Container utilizes eight warehouse facilities, of which seven are
leased and one is owned.







EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

Including our operating subsidiaries as described below, we employed approximately 18,100 persons at December 31, 2017.
CNA employed approximately 6,300 persons. Diamond Offshore employed approximately 2,400 persons, including international crew personnel furnished through independent labor contractors. Boardwalk Pipeline employed approximately 1,260 persons,
approximately 110 of whom are union members covered under collective bargaining units. Loews Hotels & Co employed approximately 5,580 persons, approximately 1,910 of whom are union members covered under collective bargaining units.
Consolidated Container employed approximately 2,300 persons, approximately 300 of whom are covered under collective bargaining units. We and our subsidiaries have experienced satisfactory labor relations.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



NamePosition and Offices HeldAgeFirstBecameOfficerMarc A. AlpertSenior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary552016David B. EdelsonSenior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer582005Richard W. ScottSenior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer642009Kenneth I. SiegelSenior Vice President602009Andrew H. TischOffice of the President,Co-Chairmanof the Board and
Chairman of the Executive Committee681985James S. TischOffice of the President, President and Chief Executive Officer651981Jonathan M. TischOffice of the President andCo-Chairmanof the
Board641987

Andrew H. Tisch and James S. Tisch are brothers and are cousins of Jonathan M. Tisch. None of
our other executive officers or directors is related to any other.

All of our executive officers, except for Marc A.
Alpert and David B. Edelson, have served in their current roles at the Company for at least the past five years. Prior to assuming his current role at the Company in July of 2016, Mr. Alpert served as a partner and head of the Public Companies
Practice Group at the law firm of Chadbourne & Parke LLP. Mr. Edelson served as our Senior Vice President prior to May of 2014, when he assumed his current role.

Officers are elected annually and hold office until their successors are elected and qualified, and are subject to removal by
the Board of Directors.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our website address is www.loews.com. We make available, free of charge, through the website our Annual Report on Form10-K,Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q,Current Reports on Form8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate
Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee charter, Compensation Committee charter and Nominating and Governance Committee charter have also been posted and are available on our website. Information on or accessible through our website is not
incorporated by reference into this Report.

