ITEM 1A.RISK
    FACTORS



An investment in our Common Shares or other securities is
    subject to risks inherent to our business, ownership of our
    securities and our industry. Described below are certain risks
    and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could have a material
    and adverse effect on us. Before making an investment decision,
    you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties
    described below together with all of the other information
    included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks
    and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.
    Although we have significant risk management policies,
    procedures and practices aimed at mitigating these risks,
    uncertainties may nevertheless impair our business operations.
    This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.



IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS,
    FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, AND/OR ACCESS TO
    LIQUIDITY AND/OR CREDIT COULD BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY
    AFFECTED (“MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON US”). IF THIS
    WERE TO HAPPEN, THE VALUE OF OUR SECURITIES — COMMON
    SHARES, SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES B PREFERRED
    STOCK, TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES AND DEBT
    SECURITIES — COULD DECLINE, PERHAPS SIGNIFICANTLY, AND
    YOU COULD LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT.



Risks
    Related To Our Business



Our
    credit ratings affect our liquidity position.



P-1

P-2,





Our rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of KeyCorp
    and KeyBank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other
    securities are based on a number of factors, including our
    financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other
    factors, some of which are not entirely within our control, such
    as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the
    economy. In light of the difficulties in the financial services
    industry, the financial markets and the economy, there can be no
    assurance that we will maintain our current ratings.



If the securities of KeyCorpand/orKeyBank suffer additional ratings downgrades, such downgrades
    could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could
    significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional
    collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of
    investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, thereby
    reducing our ability to generate income. Further downgrades of
    the credit ratings of securities, particularly if they are below
    investment-grade, could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



The
    Federal Reserve has acknowledged the possibility of further
    recession and deflation. Should this occur, the financial
    services industry and our business could be adversely
    affected.



and/or



The
    failure of the European Union to stabilize its weaker member
    economies, such as Greece, Portugal, Spain, Hungary, Ireland,
    and Italy, could have international implications affecting the
    stability of global financial markets and hindering the U.S.
    economic recovery.



On the eve of May 10, 2010, Greece was facing imminent
    default on its obligations. On May 10, 2010, finance
    ministers from the European Union announced a deal to provide
    $560 billion in new loans and $76 billion under an
    existing lending program to countries facing instability. The
    International Monetary Fund joined forces and announced that it
    was prepared to give $321 billion separately. The European
    Central Bank also announced that it would buy government and
    corporate debt, and the world’s leading central banks,
    including the Federal Reserve, Bank of Canada, Bank of England,
    Bank of Japan, and Swiss National Bank, announced a joint
    intervention to make more dollars available for interbank
    lending. These and other monetary and fiscal policy efforts
    appear to have stabilized the European Union’s weaker
    member economies. Nevertheless, should these monetary and fiscal
    policy measures be insufficient to restore stability to the
    financial markets, the recovery of the U.S. economy could
    be hindered or reversed, which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.



The
    Dodd-Frank Act subjects us to a variety of new and more
    stringent legal and regulatory requirements. Because the
    Dodd-Frank Act imposes more stringent regulatory requirements on
    the largest financial institutions, Key could be competitively
    disadvantaged.



On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act
    into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended to address perceived
    deficiencies and gaps in the regulatory framework for financial
    services in the United States, reduce the risks of bank failures
    and better equip the nation’s regulators to guard against
    or mitigate any future financial crises, and manage systemic
    risk through increased supervision of systemically important
    financial companies (including nonbank financial companies).
    Although many provisions remain subject to further rulemaking,
    the Dodd-Frank Act implements numerous and far-reaching changes
    across the





financial landscape affecting financial companies, including
    bank and bank-holding companies such as Key, by, among other
    things:





•Requiring regulation and oversight of large, systemically
    important financial institutions by establishing an interagency
    council, the Financial Stability Oversight Council
    (“FSOC”), to identify and manage systemic risk in the
    financial system, and requiring the implementation of heightened
    prudential standards and regulation by the Federal Reserve for
    systemically important financial institutions (including nonbank
    financial companies);



•Applying prudential standards to large interconnected financial
    companies, including BHCs like us that have at least
    $50 billion in total consolidated assets and certain
    nonbanks regulated by the Federal Reserve. Such heightened
    prudential standards must include risk-based capital
    requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, overall
    risk management requirements, resolution plan and credit
    exposure reporting, and concentration limits. They also may
    include a contingent capital requirement, enhanced public
    disclosures, short-term debt limits, and such other standards as
    the Federal Reserve, on its own or pursuant to FSOC
    recommendation, determines are appropriate;



•Requiring that large interconnected financial companies with at
    least $50 billion in total assets prepare and maintain a
    rapid and orderly resolution plan, which must be approved by the
    Federal Reserve and the FDIC;



•Creating a new federal receivership process pursuant to which
    the FDIC will serve as receiver for large, interconnected
    financial companies, including bank holding companies, whose
    failure poses a significant risk to the financial stability of
    the United States. All costs of an orderly liquidation are borne
    first by shareholders and unsecured creditors, and, if
    necessary, by risk-based assessments on large financial
    companies;



•Applying the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements
    that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank
    holding companies, savings and loan holding companies and
    systemically important nonbank financial companies, which, among
    other things, will gradually exclude all trust preferred and
    cumulative preferred securities from Tier 1 capital, and may
    impose new capital and liquidity requirements consistent with
    the Basel III capital and liquidity frameworks;



•Limiting the Federal Reserve’s emergency authority to lend
    to nondepository institutions to facilities with broad-based
    eligibility, and authorizing the FDIC to establish an emergency
    financial stabilization fund for solvent depository institutions
    and their holding companies, subject to the approval of
    Congress, the U.S. Treasury Secretary and the Federal
    Reserve;



•Centralizing responsibility for consumer financial protection by
    creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
    (the “CFPB”), with responsibility for implementing,
    examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer
    financial laws, a number of which will be strengthened by
    provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated
    thereunder;



•Imposing new regulatory requirements and restrictions on
    federally insured depository institutions, their holding
    companies and other affiliates, as well as other systemically
    important nonbank financial companies, including the so-called
    “Volcker Rule” ban on proprietary trading and
    sponsorship of, and investment in hedge funds and private equity
    funds;



•Creating regimes for regulation ofover-the-counterderivatives and non-admitted property and casualty insurers and
    reinsurers. The regulation ofover-the-counterderivatives shall include the so-called “Lincoln push-out
    provision” that effectively prohibits insured depository
    institutions from conducting certain derivatives businesses in
    the institution;



•Requiring any interchange transaction fee charged for a debit
    transaction to be “reasonable” and proportional to the
    cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction, directing the
    Federal Reserve to prescribe new regulations establishing such
    fee standards, eliminating exclusivity arrangements between
    issuers and networks for debit card transactions, and imposing
    limits for restrictions on merchant discounting for the use of
    certain payment forms and minimum or maximum amount thresholds
    as a condition for acceptance of credit cards;



•Implementing regulation of hedge fund and private equity
    advisers by requiring that advisers that manage
    $150 million or more in assets to register with the SEC;







•Requiring issuers of asset-backed securities to retain some of
    the risk associated with the offered securities;•Providing for the implementation of corporate governance
    provisions for all public companies concerning proxy access and
    executive compensation;•Increasing the FDIC’s deposit insurance limits permanently
    to $250,000 for non-transaction accounts, providing for
    unlimited federal deposit insurance on non-interest bearing
    demand transaction accounts at all insured depository
    institutions effective December 31, 2010 through
    December 31, 2012, and changing the assessment base from
    insured deposits to average consolidated assets less average
    tangible equity, eliminating the ceiling on the size of the DIF,
    increasing the reserve ratio for the DIF, and imposing
    assessments upon bank holding companies to support the cost of
    resolution and regulation of such entities required by the
    Dodd-Frank Act;•Reforming regulation of credit rating agencies, and requiring
    federal agencies to remove references to credit ratings as a
    measure of creditworthiness for, among other things, purposes of
    capital, analysis of credits, and liquidity; and•Repealing the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on
    demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to
    pay interest on business transaction accounts.



The Dodd-Frank Act defers many of the details of its mandated
    reforms to future rulemakings by a variety of federal regulatory
    agencies. While we cannot predict the effect of these various
    rulemakings which have yet to be issued, we do anticipate a
    variety of new and more stringent legal and regulatory
    requirements. Regulatory reform will likely place additional
    costs on larger financial institutions, may impede growth
    opportunities, and may place larger financial institutions at a
    competitive disadvantage in the market place. Additionally,
    reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that we deal
    with in the course of our business, such as rating agencies,
    insurance companies, and investors. Heightened regulatory
    practices, requirements or expectations resulting from the
    Dodd-Frank Act and the rules promulgated thereunder could affect
    us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and, in turn, could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



The
    Dodd-Frank Act provides for the phase-out beginning
    January 1, 2013, of trust preferred securities and
    cumulative preferred securities as eligible Tier 1
    risk-based capital for purposes of the regulatory capital
    guidelines for bank holding companies.





An
    offering of a significant amount of additional Common Shares or
    equity convertible into our Common Shares could cause us to
    issue a significant amount of Common Shares to a private
    investor or group of private investors and thus have a
    significant investor with voting rights.



Any issuance or issuances totaling a significant amount of our
    Common Shares or equity convertible into our Common Shares could
    cause us to issue a significant amount of Common Shares to a
    private investor or group of investors and thus have a
    significant investor with voting rights. Having a significant
    shareholder may make some future transactions more difficult or
    perhaps impossible to complete without the support of such
    shareholder. The interests of the significant shareholder may
    not coincide with our interests or the interests of other
    shareholders. There can be no assurance that any significant
    shareholder will exercise its influence in our best interests as
    opposed to its best interests as a significant shareholder.
    Accordingly, a significant shareholder may make it difficult to
    approve certain transactions even if they are supported by the
    other shareholders. These factors could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.





We are
    subject to market risks, including in the commercial real estate
    sector. Should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate
    market further deteriorate, our financial condition and results
    of operations could be adversely affected.





Declining
    asset prices could adversely affect us.



During the recent recession in December 2007 to June 2009, the
    volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets
    have experienced reached extreme levels. The severe market
    dislocations in 2008 led to the failure of several substantial
    financial institutions, causing widespread liquidation of assets
    and further constraining credit markets. These asset sales,
    along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including
    some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations
    across a wide variety of traded asset classes. Asset price
    deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of
    the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and
    reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable.
    For example, a further recession would likely reverse recent
    positive trends in asset prices. These factors could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.



We are
    subject to credit risk, in the form of changes in interest rates
    and/or changes in the economic conditions in the markets where
    we operate, which changes could adversely affect us.



There are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading
    activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact
    of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic
    conditions in the markets where we operate. Increases in
    interest ratesand/orfurther weakening of economic conditions caused by a double-dip
    recession or otherwise could adversely impact the ability of
    borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the
    collateral securing these loans.



As of December 31, 2010, approximately 69% of our loan
    portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural
    loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial
    mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. These
    types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate
    loans and consumer loans. We closely monitor and manage risk
    concentrations and utilize various portfolio management
    practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible
    to do so; however, our loan portfolio still contains a number of
    commercial loans with relatively large balances.



We also do business with environmentally sensitive industries
    and in connection with the development of Brownfield sites that
    provide appropriate business opportunities. We monitor and
    evaluate our borrowers for compliance with environmental-related
    covenants, which include covenants requiring compliance with
    applicable law. We take steps to mitigate risks; however, should
    political or other changes make it difficult for certain of our
    customers to maintain compliance with applicable covenants, our
    credit quality could be adversely affected. The deterioration of
    one or more of any of our loans could cause a significant
    increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in net loss
    of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for
    loan and lease losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, any
    of which could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



We also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect
    our lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws
    and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement
    action that could result in the assessment against us of civil
    money or other penalties, which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.



There can
    be no assurance that the legislation and other initiatives
    undertaken by the United States government to restore liquidity
    and stability to the U.S. financial system and reform financial
    regulation in the U.S. will help stabilize the U.S. financial
    system.



Since 2008, the federal government has intervened in an
    unprecedented manner in response to the recent financial crisis
    that affected the banking system and financial markets. The EESA
    was enacted and signed into law by President Bush in October
    2008 in response to the ongoing financial crisis affecting the
    banking system and financial markets and going concern threats
    to investment banks and other financial institutions. Under the
    authority provided by EESA, the U.S. Treasury established
    the CPP, and the core provisions of the Financial Stability Plan
    aimed at stabilizing and providing liquidity to the financial
    markets. There







Issuing a
    significant amount of common equity to a private investor may
    result in a change in control of KeyCorp under regulatory
    standards and contractual terms.



Should we obtain a significant amount of additional capital from
    any individual private investor, a change of control could occur
    under applicable regulatory standards and contractual terms.
    Such change of control may trigger notice, approvaland/orother
    regulatory requirements in many states and jurisdictions in
    which we operate. We are a party to various contracts and other
    agreements that may require us to obtain consents from our
    respective contract counterparties in the event of a change in
    control. The failure to obtain any required regulatory consents
    or approvals or contractual consents due to a change in control
    may have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



Should we
    decide to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s Series B
    Preferred Stock, future issuance(s) of Common Shares may be
    necessary, which, if necessary, may result in significant
    dilution to holders of KeyCorp Common Shares.





The terms of the Warrant provide that, if we issue Common Shares
    or securities convertible or exercisable into or exchangeable
    for Common Shares at a price that is less than 90% of the market
    price of such shares on the last trading day preceding the date
    of the agreement to sell such shares, the number and the per
    share price of Common Shares to be purchased pursuant to the
    Warrant will be adjusted pursuant to its terms. We may also
    choose to issue securities convertible into or exercisable for
    our Common Shares and such securities may themselves contain
    anti-dilution provisions. Such anti-dilution adjustment
    provisions may have a further dilutive effect on other holders
    of our Common Shares.



There can be no assurance that we will not in the future
    determine that it is advisable, or that we will not encounter
    circumstances where we determine that it is necessary, to issue
    additional Common Shares, securities convertible into or
    exchangeable for Common Shares or common-equivalent securities
    to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to
    build additional capital. Nevertheless, there can be no
    assurance that our regulators, including the U.S. Treasury
    and the Federal Reserve, will not conduct additional
    “stress test” capital assessments outside of typical
    examination cycles, such as the SCAP,and/orrequire us to generate additional capital, including Tier 1
    common equity, in the future in the event of further negative
    economic circumstances, in order for us to redeem our
    Series B Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury
    under the CPP or otherwise. The market price of our Common
    Shares could decline as a result of such exchange offerings, as
    well as other sales of a large block of our Common Shares or
    similar securities in the market thereafter, or the perception
    that such sales could occur. These factors could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.





We may
    not be permitted to repurchase the U.S. Treasury’s CPP
    investment if and when we request approval to do so.



While it is our plan to repurchase the Series B Preferred
    Stock as soon as practicable, in order to repurchase such
    securities, in whole or in part, we must establish to our
    regulators’ satisfaction that we have met all of the
    conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the
    Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to repurchase the
    U.S. Treasury’s CPP investment in our Series B
    Preferred Stock subject to conditions that we find acceptable,
    or at all. In addition to limiting our ability to return capital
    to our shareholders, the U.S. Treasury’s investment
    could limit our ability to retain key executives and other key
    employees, and limit our ability to develop business
    opportunities. These factors could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.



We are
    subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our
    earnings on loans and other interest-earning assets.





Although we believe that we have implemented effective asset and
    liability management strategies, including simulation analysis
    and the use of interest rate derivatives as hedging instruments,
    to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on
    our results of operations, any substantial, unexpectedand/orprolonged change in market interest rates could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.



We are
    subject to changes in the financial markets which could
    adversely affect us.



Traditionally, market factors such as changes in foreign
    exchange rates, changes in the equity markets and changes in the
    financial soundness of bond insurers, sureties and other
    unrelated financial companies have the potential to affect
    current market values of financial instruments. During 2008,
    market events demonstrated this to an extreme. Between July 2007
    and October 2009, conditions in the fixed income markets,
    specifically the wider credit spreads over benchmark
    U.S. Treasury securities for many fixed income securities,
    caused significant volatility in the market values of loans,
    securities, and certain other financial instruments that are
    held in our trading orheld-for-saleportfolios. Opportunities to minimize the adverse affects of
    market changes are not always available. Substantial changes in
    the financial markets could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



The
    soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect
    us.







Many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the
    event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our
    credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot
    be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to
    recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due
    us. It is not possible to anticipate all of these risks and it
    is not feasible to mitigate these risks completely. Accordingly,
    there is no assurance that our Enterprise Risk Management
    program will effectively mitigate these risks. Accordingly,
    these factors could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



We are
    subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our
    funding levels.



and/or

and/or

2007-2009,



Various
    factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to
    increase.





We are
    subject to operational risk.



We are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of
    loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal
    processes and systems, and external events. Operational risk
    also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of
    loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules,
    regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. We are
    also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing
    arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or
    capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability
    to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our
    business, such as certain loan processing functions.
    Additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located
    overseas and therefore are subject to political risks unique to
    the regions in which they operate. Although we seek to mitigate
    operational risk through a





system of internal controls, resulting losses from operational
    risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased
    operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone
    opportunities, any and all of which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.



Our
    profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in
    the geographic regions in which we operate.





We
    operate in a highly competitive industry and market
    areas.





Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of
    factors, including, among other things:



•our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and
    initiatives;•our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term
    customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical
    standards and safe, sound assets;•our ability to expand our market position;•the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services
    offered to meet customer needs and demands;•the rate at which we introduce new products and services
    relative to our competitors;•our ability to attract and retain talented executives and
    relationship managers; and•industry and general economic trends.



Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly
    weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect
    our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.



We are
    subject to extensive government regulation and
    supervision.



We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and
    supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to
    protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds
    and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These
    regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure,
    investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other
    things. KeyCorp, as well as other financial institutions more
    generally, have recently been subjected to increased scrutiny
    from regulatory authorities stemming from broader systemic
    regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing,
    capital levels, asset quality, provisioning and other prudential
    matters, arising as a result of the recent financial crisis and
    efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to
    improve their risk management and prevent future crises.



Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review
    banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The
    passage of the Dodd-Frank Act has made it clear that a variety
    of significant changes to the banking and financial
    institutions’





regulatory regime will be implemented over the next few years.
    It is not possible to predict the scope of such changes or their
    potential impact on our financial position or results of
    operations.



These regulations or others designed to implement parts of
    comprehensive financial regulatory reform could limit our
    ability to conduct certain of our businesses, such as funds that
    are managed by our investment advisor subsidiary, Victory
    Capital Management Inc., or funds sponsored and advised by our
    principal investing line of business, which could require us to
    divest or spin-off certain of our business units and private
    equity investments. Furthermore, as part of the SCAP, Key was
    identified as a financial institution that was one of nineteen
    firms that collectively hold two-thirds of the banking assets
    and more than one-half of the loans in the U.S. banking
    system. While it is difficult to predict the extent or nature of
    regulatory reform, should regulatory reform limit the size of
    the SCAP banks, our ability to pursue opportunities to achieve
    growth through the acquisition of other banks or deposits could
    be affected, which, in turn could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on Us.



Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes
    in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations
    or policies;and/orcontinuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices,
    requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and
    unpredictable ways, and could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Us. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the
    types of financial services and products that we may offerand/orincrease the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial
    services and products, among other things. Failure to
    appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies
    (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent
    such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory
    agencies, civil money penaltiesand/orreputation damage, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Us.



Our
    controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.



We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure
    controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and
    procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and
    operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can
    provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the
    objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention
    of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with
    regulations related to controls and procedures could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.



We rely
    on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our
    funds.



We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our
    subsidiaries. With the exception of cash raised from debt and
    equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our cash flow
    from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the
    principal source of funds to pay dividends on our equity
    securities and interest and principal on our debt. Federal
    banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that
    KeyBank (our largest subsidiary) and certain nonbank
    subsidiaries may pay to us. During 2008 and 2009, KeyBank did
    not pay any dividends to us; nonbank subsidiaries paid us
    $25 million in dividends during 2010. During 2010, KeyBank
    could not pay dividends to KeyCorp because KeyBank’s net
    losses of $1.151 billion for 2009 and $1.161 billion
    for 2008 exceeded KeyBank’s net income during 2010. For
    further information on the regulatory restrictions on the
    payment of dividends by KeyBank, see “Supervision and
    Regulation — Capital Actions, Dividend Restrictions
    and the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program” of this
    report.



Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon
    a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to
    the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the
    event KeyBank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be
    able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our
    equity securities. The inability to receive dividends from
    KeyBank could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



Our
    earnings and/or financial condition may be affected by changes
    in accounting principles and in tax laws, or the interpretation
    of them.



Changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. Although these
    changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they
    could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain
    performance measures.



Like all businesses, we are subject to tax laws, rules and
    regulations. Changes to tax laws, rules and regulations,
    including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax
    laws, rules and regulations by the Internal Revenue Service or
    other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and
    unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional
    costs, among other things. Failure to appropriately comply with
    tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by
    regulatory agencies, civil money penaltiesand/orreputation damage, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    Us.



Additionally, we conduct quarterly assessments of our deferred
    tax assets. The carrying value of these assets is dependent upon
    earnings forecasts and prior period earnings, among other
    things. A significant change in our assumptions could affect the
    carrying value of our deferred tax assets on our balance sheet,
    which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.





Potential
    acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder
    value.



Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various
    risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among
    other things:



•potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the
    target company;•exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;•difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and
    personnel of the target company;•potential disruption to our business;•potential diversion of our management’s time and attention;•the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target
    company;•difficulty in estimating the value (i.e. the assets and
    liabilities) of the target company;•difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets,
    liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and•potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may
    affect the target company.



We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and
    conduct due diligence activities related to possible
    transactions with other financial institutions and financial
    services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition
    discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and
    future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity
    securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve
    the payment of a premium over book and market values, and,
    therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net
    income per Common Share may occur in connection with any future
    transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected
    revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or
    product presence,and/orother
    projected benefits from an acquisition could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.



We may
    not be able to attract and retain skilled people.



Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract
    and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most
    activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may
    not be able to retain or hire the people we wantand/orneed.
    In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must
    compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those
    levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest
    expense. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain
    qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our
    competitive position, our performance, including our competitive
    position, could suffer, and, in turn, have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us. Although we have incentive compensation plans
    aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected
    loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still
    occur, and such events may have a Material Adverse Effect on Us
    because of the loss of the employee’s skills, knowledge of
    our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of
    promptly finding qualified replacement personnel for our
    talented executivesand/orrelationship managers.



Pursuant to the standardized terms of the CPP, among other
    things, we agreed to institute certain restrictions on the
    compensation of certain senior executive management positions
    that could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or
    retain the most qualified senior executives. Other restrictions
    were imposed under the Recovery Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and
    other legislation or regulations. Our ability to attractand/orretain talented executivesand/orrelationship managers may be affected by these developments or
    any new executive compensation limits, and such restrictions
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



Our
    information systems may experience an interruption or breach in
    security.



We rely heavily on communications and information systems to
    conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in
    security of these systems could result in failures or
    disruptions in our customer relationship management, general
    ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies
    and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the
    possible failure, interruption or security breach of our
    information systems, there can be no assurance that any such
    failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if
    any does occur, that it will be adequately addressed. The
    occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of
    our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a
    loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory
    scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible
    financial liability, any of which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.



We
    continually encounter technological change.



The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid
    technological change with frequent introductions of new
    technology-driven products and services. The effective use of
    technology increases efficiency and enables financial
    institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our
    future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the
    needs of our customers by using technology to provide products
    and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to
    create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest
    competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in
    technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively
    implement new technology-driven products and services or be
    successful in





marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure
    to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting
    the financial services industry could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on Us.



We are
    subject to claims and litigation.



and/or

and/or

and/or



Severe
    weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other
    external events could significantly impact our
    business.



Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and
    other adverse external events could have a significant impact on
    our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the
    stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers
    to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral
    securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in
    loss of revenueand/orcause
    us to incur additional expenses. Although we have established
    disaster recovery plans and procedures, and monitor for
    significant environmental effects on our properties or our
    investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.



Risks
    Associated With Our Common Shares



Our
    issuance of securities to the U.S. Treasury may limit our
    ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to
    our Common Shares. If we are unable to redeem such preferred
    shares, the dividend rate will increase substantially after five
    years.





Unless we are able to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock
    during the first five years, the dividend payments on this
    capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5%
    ($125 million annually) to 9% ($225 million annually).
    Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in
    dividends could significantly impact our liquidity and, as a
    result, have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



You may
    not receive dividends on the Common Shares.



Holders of our Common Shares are only entitled to receive such
    dividends as the Board of Directors may declare out of funds
    legally available for such payments. Furthermore, our common
    shareholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any
    holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing
    such preferred stock then outstanding. As of February 17,
    2011, there were 2,904,839 shares of KeyCorp’s
    Series A Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of
    $100 per share issued and





outstanding and 25,000 shares of the Series B
    Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per
    share issued and outstanding.



In July 2009, we reduced the quarterly dividend on our Common
    Shares to $0.01 per share. As long as our Series A
    Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock are
    outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions
    relating to certain equity securities, including our Common
    Shares, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends
    are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited
    exceptions. In addition, prior to November 14, 2011, unless
    we have redeemed all of the Series B Preferred Stock or the
    U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series B
    Preferred Stock to third parties, the consent of the
    U.S. Treasury will be required for us to, among other
    things, increase our Common Shares dividend above $.1875, except
    in limited circumstances should we redeem the
    U.S. Treasury’s investment, our ability to increase
    our dividend. These factors could adversely affect the market
    price of our Common Shares. Also, KeyCorp is a bank holding
    company and its ability to declare and pay dividends is
    dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations,
    including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding
    capital adequacy and dividends.



In addition, terms of KeyBank’s outstanding junior
    subordinated debt securities prohibit us from declaring or
    paying any dividends or distributions on KeyCorp’s capital
    stock, including its Common Shares, or purchasing, acquiring, or
    making a liquidation payment on such stock, if an event of
    default has occurred and is continuing under the applicable
    indenture, if we are in default with respect to a guarantee
    payment under the guarantee of the related capital securities or
    if we have given notice of our election to defer interest
    payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced
    or a deferral period is continuing. These factors could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on Us.



There may
    be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may
    adversely affect the market price of our Common
    Shares.



We are not restricted from issuing additional Common Shares,
    including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable
    for, or that represent the right to receive, Common Shares. As
    described above, in connection with our sale of
    $2.5 billion of Series B Preferred Stock to the
    U.S. Treasury, we issued to the Department of the Treasury
    a Warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our Common Shares at an
    exercise price of $10.64, subject to adjustment. Although we
    have the right to repurchase the Warrant at a negotiated price,
    we may not desire or be able to do so; and if we do not
    repurchase the Warrant, the U.S. Treasury could either
    exercise the Warrant or sell it to third parties. The issuance
    of additional Common Shares as a result of exercise of this
    Warrant or the issuance of convertible securities would dilute
    the ownership interest of existing holders of our Common Shares.
    In addition, we have in the past and may in the future issue
    options, convertible preferred stock,and/orother
    securities that may have a dilutive effect on our Common Shares.
    The market price of our Common Shares could decline as a result
    of any such offering, other capital raising strategies or other
    sales of a large block of shares of our Common Shares or similar
    securities in the market, or the perception that such sales
    could occur.



Our
    Common Shares are equity and are subordinate to our existing and
    future indebtedness and preferred stock and effectively
    subordinated to all the indebtedness and other non-common equity
    claims against our subsidiaries.



Our Common Shares are equity interests and do not constitute
    indebtedness. As such, our Common Shares will rank junior to all
    of our current and future indebtedness and to other non-equity
    claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims
    against us, including in the event of our liquidation.
    Additionally, holders of our Common Shares are subject to the
    prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of our
    outstanding preferred stock. Our board of directors is
    authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred
    stock without any action on the part of the holders of our
    Common Shares. In addition, our right to participate in any
    distribution of assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the
    subsidiary’s liquidation or otherwise, and thus the ability
    of a holder of our Common Shares to benefit indirectly from such
    distribution, will be subject to the prior claims of creditors
    of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims
    as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. As a result,
    our Common Shares will effectively be subordinated to all
    existing and future liabilities and obligations of our
    subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2010, we had
    $13.8 billion of borrowed funds and $60.6 billion of
    deposits; and the aggregate liquidation preference of our
    outstanding preferred stock was $2.7 billion.



Our share
    price can be volatile.



Share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to
    resell your Common Shares when you want and at prices you find
    attractive. Our share price can fluctuate significantly in
    response to a variety of factors including, among other things:



•actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of
    operations;•recommendation by securities analysts;•operating and stock price performance of other companies that
    investors deem comparable to our business;•changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets,
    including the market for mortgage-related securities;•news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in
    the financial services industry;





•perceptions of usand/orour
    competitors in the marketplace;•new technology used, or products or services offered, by
    competitors;•significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic
    partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into
    by us or our competitors;•failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated
    benefits from acquisitions;•future sales of our equity or equity-related securities;•our past and future dividend practices;•changes in governmental regulations affecting our industry
    generally or our business and operations;•changes in global financial markets, economies and market
    conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock,
    commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility;•geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or
    military conflicts; and•the occurrence or nonoccurrence, as appropriate, of any
    circumstance described in these Risk Factors.



General market fluctuations, market disruption, industry factors
    and general economic and political conditions and events, such
    as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or
    credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease
    regardless of operating results. Any of these factors could have
    a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



An
    investment in our Common Shares is not an insured
    deposit.



Our Common Shares are not a bank deposit and, therefore, are not
    insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance
    fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our
    Common Shares is inherently risky for the reasons described in
    this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this
    report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the
    price of common shares in any company. As a result, if you
    acquire our Common Shares, you may lose some or all of your
    investment.



Our
    articles of incorporation and regulations, as well as certain
    banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect.



Provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations and
    federal banking laws, including regulatory approval
    requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to
    acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial
    to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may
    inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination,
    which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our
    Common Shares.



Risks
    Associated With Our Industry



Maintaining
    or increasing our market share may depend upon our ability to
    adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards
    and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices
    for our products and services.





Certain
    industries, including the financial services industry, are more
    significantly affected by certain economic factors such as
    unemployment and real estate asset values. Should the
    improvement of these economic factors lag the improvement of the
    overall economy, or not occur, we could be adversely
    affected.



Should the stabilization of the U.S. economy lead to a
    general economic recovery, the improvement of certain economic
    factors, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and
    rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall
    economy, or not occur at all. These economic factors typically
    affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial
    services, more significantly. For example, improvements in
    commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic
    recovery by twelve to eighteen months. Our clients include
    entities active in these industries. Furthermore, financial
    services companies with a substantial lending business, like
    ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make
    debt service payments on





loans. Should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to
    recover for an extended period of time, it could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.



Difficult
    market conditions have adversely affected the financial services
    industry, business and results of operations.



The dramatic deterioration experienced in the housing market
    since 2007 led to weakness across geographies, industries, and
    ultimately the broad economy. During this period, the housing
    market experienced falling home prices, increasing foreclosures;
    unemployment and under-employment rose significantly; and
    weakened commercial real estate fundamentals negatively impacted
    the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in
    significant write-downs of asset values by financial
    institutions, including government-sponsored entities, and
    commercial and investment banks. The resulting write-downs to
    assets of financial institutions caused many financial
    institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger
    and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government
    assistance or bankruptcy protection. It is not possible to
    predict if these economic conditions will re-emerge, which of
    our markets, products or other businesses may ultimately be
    affected, and whether our actions and government remediation
    efforts may effectively mitigate these factors. If economic
    conditions deteriorate, it could result in an increase in loan
    delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan
    collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and
    services, among other things, any of which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on Us.



If economic conditions deteriorate, we may face the following
    risks, including, but not limited to:





•Increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal
    standards and regulatory requirements or expectations.



•Impairment of our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our
    customers if the models and approaches we use to select, manage,
    and underwrite customers become less predictive of future
    behaviors due to fundamental changes in economic conditions.



•The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit
    exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments,
    including forecasts of economic conditions and how these
    economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers
    to repay their loans. In a highly uncertain economic
    environment, these processes may no longer be capable of
    accurate estimation and, in turn, may impact the reliability of
    our evaluation of our credit risk and exposure.



•Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to
    engage in securitization funding transactions on favorable terms
    or at all could be adversely affected by future disruptions in
    the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating
    agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.



•We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in
    the future because market developments significantly deplete the
    insurance fund of the FDIC and reduce the ratio of reserves to
    insured deposits.



•Financial institutions may be required, regardless of risk, to
    pay taxes or other fees to the U.S. Treasury. Such taxes or
    other fees could be designed to reimburse the U.S. Treasury
    for the many government programs and initiatives it may
    undertake as part of its economic stimulus efforts.



Financial
    services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of
    information about customers and counterparties.



In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other
    transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on
    behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial
    statements, credit reports and other financial information. We
    may also rely on representations of those customers,
    counterparties or other third parties, such as independent
    auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that
    information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial
    statements, credit reports or other financial information could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



Consumers
    may decide not to use banks to complete their financial
    transactions.



Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete
    through alternative methods financial transactions that
    historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now
    maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would
    have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also
    complete transactions such as paying billsand/ortransferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The
    process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as
    “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee
    income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related
    income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue
    streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on Us.



