ITEM 1.BUSINESS



D.R. Horton, Inc. is one of the largest homebuilding companies
    in the United States. We construct and sell homes through our
    operating divisions in 26 states and 72 metropolitan
    markets of the United States, primarily under the name of D.R.
    Horton,America’s Builder. Our common stock is
    included in the S&P 500 Index and listed on the New York
    Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “DHI.” Unless
    the context otherwise requires, the terms “D.R.
    Horton,” the “Company,” “we” and
    “our” used herein refer to D.R. Horton, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation, and its predecessors and subsidiaries.



Donald R. Horton began our homebuilding business in 1978. In
    1991, we were incorporated in Delaware to acquire the assets and
    businesses of our predecessor companies, which were residential
    home construction and development companies owned or controlled
    by Mr. Horton. In 1992, we completed our initial public
    offering of our common stock. The growth of our company over the
    years was achieved by investing available capital into our
    existing homebuilding markets and intostart-upoperations in new markets. Additionally, we acquired other
    homebuilding companies, which strengthened our position in
    existing markets and expanded our geographic presence and
    product offerings in other markets. Our homes generally range in
    size from 1,000 to 4,000 square feet and in price from
    $90,000 to $700,000. The current downturn in our industry has
    resulted in a substantial decrease in the size of our operations
    during the last four fiscal years as we have reacted to the
    significantly weakened market for new homes. For the year ended
    September 30, 2010, we closed 20,875 homes with an average
    closing sales price of approximately $206,100.



Through our financial services operations, we provide mortgage
    financing and title agency services to homebuyers in many of our
    homebuilding markets. DHI Mortgage, our wholly-owned subsidiary,
    provides mortgage financing services principally to the
    purchasers of homes we build. We generally do not retain or
    service the mortgages we originate but, rather, seek to sell the
    mortgages and related servicing rights to third-party
    purchasers. DHI Mortgage originates loans in accordance with
    purchaser guidelines and historically has sold substantially all
    of its mortgage production within 30 days of origination.
    Our subsidiary title companies serve as title insurance agents
    by providing title insurance policies, examination and closing
    services, primarily to the purchasers of our homes.



Our financial reporting segments consist of six homebuilding
    segments and a financial services segment. Our homebuilding
    operations are the most substantial part of our business,
    comprising approximately 98% of consolidated revenues, which
    totaled $4.4 billion in fiscal 2010. Our homebuilding
    operations generate most of their revenues from the sale of
    completed homes, with a lesser amount from the sale of land and
    lots. In addition to building traditional single-family detached
    homes, we also build attached homes, such as town homes,
    duplexes, triplexes and condominiums (including some mid-rise
    buildings), which share common walls and roofs. The sale of
    detached homes generated approximately 86%, 81%, and 77% of home
    sales revenues in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our
    financial services segment generates its revenues from
    originating and selling mortgages and collecting fees for title
    insurance agency and closing services.



We make available, as soon as reasonably practicable, on our
    Internet website all of our reports required to be filed with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These reports
    include our annual report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4, and 5, proxy
    statements and amendments to such reports. These reports are
    available in the “Investors” section of our Internet
    website. We will also provide these reports in electronic or
    paper format to our stockholders free of charge upon request
    made to our Investor Relations department. Our SEC filings are
    also available to the public on the SEC’s website at
    www.sec.gov, and the public may read and copy any document we
    file at the SEC’s public reference room located at
    100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.
    Please call the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330for further information on the operation of the public reference
    room.



Our principal executive offices are located at 301 Commerce
    Street, Suite 500, Fort Worth, Texas 76102. Our
    telephone number is(817) 390-8200,and our Internet website address iswww.drhorton.com.
    Information on our Internet website is not part of this annual
    report onForm 10-K.





Operating
    Strategy and Structure



For a substantial part of our company’s existence, we
    maintained significantyear-over-yeargrowth and profitability. We achieved this growth through an
    operating strategy focused on capturing greater market share,
    while also maintaining a strong balance sheet. To execute our
    strategy, we invested available capital in our existing
    homebuilding markets and opportunistically entered new markets.
    We also actively evaluated homebuilding acquisition
    opportunities as they arose, some of which resulted in
    acquisitions and contributed to our growth.



During the past four years, conditions in the homebuilding
    industry have been challenging. Although we believe the
    long-term fundamental factors that support housing demand remain
    positive, it is not possible to predict when current conditions
    will improve or if they will deteriorate from current levels.
    During the current downturn we have increased our cash balances
    by generating substantial cash flow from operations, primarily
    through reductions in inventory and mortgage loans held for
    sale, the receipt of tax refunds and by accessing the capital
    markets. While we will continue to conservatively manage our
    business, our increased liquidity provides us with flexibility
    in determining the appropriate operating strategy for each of
    our communities and markets to strike the best balance between
    cash flow generation and potential profit.



Geographic
    Diversity



From 1978 to late 1987, our homebuilding activities were
    conducted in the Dallas/Fort Worth area. We then began
    diversifying geographically by entering additional markets, both
    throughstart-upoperations and acquisitions. We now operate in 26 states
    and 72 markets. This provides us with geographic diversification
    in our homebuilding inventory investments and our sources of
    revenues and earnings. We believe our diversification strategy
    helps to mitigate the effects of local and regional economic
    cycles and enhances our long-term potential.



Economies
    of Scale



We are the largest homebuilding company in the United States in
    terms of number of homes closed in fiscal 2010. By the same
    measure, we are also one of the five largest builders in many of
    our markets in fiscal 2010. We believe that our national,
    regional and local scale of operations has provided us with
    benefits that may not be available in the same degree to some
    other smaller homebuilders, such as:



•Negotiation of volume discounts and rebates from national,
    regional and local materials suppliers and lower labor rates
    from certain subcontractors;•Enhanced leverage of our general and administrative activities,
    which allows us greater flexibility to compete for greater
    market share in each of our markets; and•Greater access to and lower cost of capital, due to our strong
    balance sheet and our lending and capital markets relationships.



Decentralized
    Operations



We decentralize our homebuilding activities to give operating
    flexibility to our local division presidents on certain key
    operating decisions. At September 30, 2010, we had 33
    separate homebuilding operating divisions, many of which operate
    in more than one market area. Generally, each operating division
    consists of a division president; land entitlement, acquisition
    and development personnel; a sales manager and sales personnel;
    a construction manager and construction superintendents;
    customer service personnel; a controller; a purchasing manager
    and office staff. We believe that division presidents and their
    management teams, who are familiar with local conditions,
    generally have better information on which to base decisions
    regarding their operations. Our division presidents receive
    performance bonuses based upon achieving targeted financial and
    operational measures in their operating divisions.





Operating
    Division Responsibilities



Each operating division is responsible for:



•Site selection, which involves



— A feasibility study;



— Soil and environmental reviews;



— Review of existing zoning and other governmental
    requirements; and



— Review of the need for and extent of offsite work
    required to meet local building codes;



•Negotiating lot option or similar contracts;•Obtaining all necessary land development and home construction
    approvals;•Overseeing land development;•Selecting building plans and architectural schemes;•Selecting and managing construction subcontractors and suppliers;•Planning and managing homebuilding schedules;•Developing and implementing local marketing plans; and•Coordinating post closing customer service and warranty repairs.



Centralized
    Controls



We centralize the key risk elements of our homebuilding business
    through our regional and corporate offices. We have four
    separate homebuilding regional offices. Generally, each regional
    office consists of a region president, legal counsel, a chief
    financial officer, a purchasing manager and limited office
    support staff. Each of our region presidents and their
    management teams are responsible for oversight of the operations
    of up to eleven homebuilding operating divisions, including:



•Review and approval of division business plans and budgets;•Review of all land and lot acquisition contracts;•Oversight of land and home inventory levels; and•Review of major personnel decisions and division president
    compensation plans.



Our corporate executives and corporate office departments are
    responsible for establishing our operational policies and
    internal control standards and for monitoring compliance with
    established policies and controls throughout our operations. The
    corporate office also has primary responsibility for direct
    management of certain key risk elements and initiatives through
    the following centralized functions:



•Financing;•Cash management;•Risk and litigation management;•Allocation of capital;•Issuance and monitoring of inventory investment guidelines to
    our operating divisions;•Environmental assessments of land and lot acquisitions;•Approval and funding of land and lot acquisitions;•Accounting and management reporting;







•Internal audit;•Information technology systems;•Administration of payroll and employee benefits;•Negotiation of national purchasing contracts;•Management of major national or regional supply chain
    initiatives;•Monitoring and analysis of margins, returns and
    expenses; and•Administration of customer satisfaction surveys and reporting of
    results.



Cost
    Management



We control overhead costs by centralizing certain administrative
    and accounting functions and by closely monitoring the number of
    administrative personnel and management positions in our
    operating divisions, as well as in our regional and corporate
    offices. We also seek to efficiently manage our advertising
    costs by directing many of our promotional activities toward
    local real estate brokers.



We control construction costs by striving to design our homes
    efficiently and by obtaining competitive bids for construction
    materials and labor. We also seek to negotiate favorable pricing
    from our primary subcontractors and suppliers based on the
    volume of services and products we purchase from them on a
    local, regional and national basis. We monitor our construction
    costs on each house as well as our inventory levels, margins,
    returns and expenses through our management information systems.



Acquisitions



As negative market conditions in the housing industry persist,
    we remain committed to maintaining our strong balance sheet and
    liquidity position. However, we will continue to evaluate
    opportunities for strategic acquisitions or expansions of our
    operations. We believe that the current housing industry
    downturn may provide us selected opportunities to enhance our
    operations through the acquisition of existing homebuilding
    companies or distressed real estate properties at attractive
    valuations. In certain instances, such acquisitions can provide
    us benefits not found instart-upoperations, such as: established land positions and inventories;
    and existing relationships with municipalities, land owners,
    developers, subcontractors and suppliers. We seek to limit the
    risks associated with acquiring other companies and distressed
    real estate properties by conducting extensive operational,
    financial and legal due diligence on each acquisition and by
    performing financial analysis to determine that each acquisition
    will have a positive impact on our earnings within an acceptable
    period of time.





Markets



We conduct our homebuilding operations in all of the geographic
    regions, states and markets listed below, and we conduct our
    mortgage and title operations in many of these markets. Our
    homebuilding operating divisions are aggregated into six
    reporting segments, also referred to as reporting regions, which
    comprise the markets below. Our financial statements contain
    additional information regarding segment performance.



StateReporting Region/MarketEast RegionDelawareCentral DelawareGeorgiaSavannahMarylandBaltimoreSuburban Washington, D.C.New JerseyNorth New JerseySouth New JerseyNorth CarolinaBrunswick CountyCharlotteGreensboro/Winston-SalemRaleigh/DurhamPennsylvaniaLancasterPhiladelphiaSouth CarolinaCharlestonColumbiaGreenvilleHilton HeadMyrtle BeachVirginiaNorthern VirginiaMidwest RegionColoradoColorado SpringsDenverFort CollinsIllinoisChicagoMinnesotaMinneapolis/St. PaulWisconsinKenoshaSoutheast RegionAlabamaBirminghamMobileFloridaDaytona BeachFort Myers/NaplesJacksonvilleMelbourneMiami/West Palm BeachOrlandoPensacolaSarasota CountyTampaGeorgiaAtlantaMacon

StateReporting Region/MarketSouth Central RegionLouisianaBaton RougeLafayetteNew MexicoLas CrucesOklahomaOklahoma CityTexasAustinDallasFort WorthHoustonKilleen/Temple/WacoRio Grande ValleySan AntonioSouthwest RegionArizonaPhoenixTucsonNew MexicoAlbuquerqueWest RegionCaliforniaBay AreaCentral ValleyImperial ValleyLos Angeles CountyRiverside CountySacramentoSan Bernardino CountySan Diego CountyVentura CountyHawaiiHawaiiMauiOahuIdahoBoiseNevadaLas VegasRenoOregonAlbanyCentral OregonPortlandUtahSalt Lake CityWashingtonSeattle/TacomaVancouver









When evaluating new or existing homebuilding markets for
    purposes of capital allocation, we consider local,
    market-specific factors, including among others:



•Economic conditions;•Employment levels and job growth;•Median income level of potential homebuyers;•Local housing affordability and typical mortgage products
    utilized;•Market for homes at entry-level price point;•Availability of land and lots on acceptable terms;•Land entitlement and development processes;•New and secondary home sales activity;•Competition; and•Prevailing housing products, features, cost and pricing.



Land
    Policies



We acquire land after we have completed due diligence and
    generally after we have obtained the rights (known as
    entitlements) to begin development or construction work
    resulting in an acceptable number of residential lots. Before we
    acquire lots or tracts of land, we will, among other things,
    complete a feasibility study, which includes soil tests,
    independent environmental studies and other engineering work,
    and evaluate the status of necessary zoning and other
    governmental entitlements required to develop and use the
    property for home construction. Although we purchase and develop
    land primarily to support our homebuilding activities, we also
    sell land and lots to other developers and homebuilders where we
    have excess land and lot positions.



We also enter into land/lot option contracts, in which we obtain
    the right, but generally not the obligation, to buy land or lots
    at predetermined prices on a defined schedule commensurate with
    anticipated home closings or planned land development. Our
    option contracts generally are non-recourse, which limits our
    financial exposure to our earnest money deposited with land and
    lot sellers and any preacquisition due diligence costs incurred
    by us. This enables us to control land and lot positions with
    limited capital investment, which substantially reduces the
    risks associated with land ownership and development.



Almost all of our land and lot positions are acquired directly
    by us. We have avoided entering into joint venture arrangements
    due to their increased costs and complexity, as well as the loss
    of operational control inherent in such arrangements. We are a
    party to a very small number of joint ventures that were
    acquired through acquisitions of other homebuilders. All of
    these joint ventures are consolidated in our financial
    statements.



We attempt to mitigate our exposure to real estate inventory
    risks by:



•Managing our supply of land/lots controlled (owned and optioned)
    in each market based on anticipated future home closing levels;•Monitoring local market and demographic trends, housing
    preferences and related economic developments, such as new job
    opportunities, local growth initiatives and personal income
    trends;•Utilizing land/lot option contracts, where possible;•Seeking to acquire developed lots which are substantially ready
    for home construction;•Limiting the size of acquired land parcels to smaller tracts,
    where possible;







•Generally commencing construction of custom features or optional
    upgrades on homes under contract only after the buyer’s
    receipt of mortgage approval and receipt of satisfactory
    deposits from the buyer; and•Monitoring and managing the number of speculative homes (homes
    under construction without an executed sales contract) built in
    each subdivision.



The benefits of this strategy have been limited by the sustained
    weak conditions in the homebuilding industry over the past four
    fiscal years.



Construction



Our home designs are selected or prepared in each of our markets
    to appeal to local tastes and preferences of homebuyers in each
    community. We also offer optional interior and exterior features
    to allow homebuyers to enhance the basic home design and to
    allow us to generate additional revenues from each home sold. We
    have adjusted our product offerings to address affordability
    issues, which have become increasingly important in the current
    weak market conditions.



Substantially all of our construction work is performed by
    subcontractors. Subcontractors typically are retained for a
    specific subdivision pursuant to a contract that obligates the
    subcontractor to complete construction at anagreed-uponprice. Agreements with the subcontractors and suppliers we use
    generally are negotiated for each subdivision. We compete with
    other homebuilders for qualified subcontractors, raw materials
    and lots in the markets where we operate. We employ construction
    superintendents to monitor homes under construction, participate
    in major design and building decisions, coordinate the
    activities of subcontractors and suppliers, review the work of
    subcontractors for quality and cost controls and monitor
    compliance with zoning and building codes. In addition, our
    construction superintendents play a significant role in working
    with our homebuyers by assisting with option selection and home
    modification decisions, educating buyers on the construction
    process and instructing buyers on post-closing home maintenance.



Construction time for our homes depends on the weather,
    availability of labor, materials and supplies, size of the home,
    and other factors. We typically complete the construction of a
    home within three to six months.



We typically do not maintain significant inventories of
    construction materials, except for work in progress materials
    for homes under construction. Generally, the construction
    materials used in our operations are readily available from
    numerous sources. We have contracts exceeding one year with
    certain suppliers of our building materials that are cancelable
    at our option with a 30 day notice. In recent years, we
    have not experienced delays in construction due to shortages of
    materials or labor that have materially affected our
    consolidated operating results.



Marketing
    and Sales



We market and sell our homes through commissioned employees and
    independent real estate brokers. We typically conduct home sales
    from sales offices located in furnished model homes in each
    subdivision, and we typically do not offer our model homes for
    sale until the completion of a subdivision. Our sales personnel
    assist prospective homebuyers by providing them with floor
    plans, price information, tours of model homes and assisting
    them with the selection of options and other custom features. We
    train and inform our sales personnel as to the availability of
    financing, construction schedules, and marketing and advertising
    plans. As our customers are typically first-time ormove-uphomebuyers, we attempt to adjust our product mix and pricing
    within our homebuilding markets to keep our homes affordable. As
    market conditions warrant, we may provide potential homebuyers
    with one or more of a variety of incentives, including discounts
    and free upgrades, to be competitive in a particular market. Due
    to the weak industry conditions of the past four fiscal years,
    we have offered an increased level of incentives to homebuyers.



We advertise in our local markets as necessary through
    newspapers, marketing brochures, newsletters and email or other
    electronic means to prospective homebuyers and real estate
    brokers. We also use billboards, radio and television
    advertising and our Internet website to market the location,
    price range and availability of





our homes. To minimize advertising costs, we attempt to operate
    in subdivisions in conspicuous locations that permit us to take
    advantage of local traffic patterns. We also believe that model
    homes play a substantial role in our marketing efforts, so we
    expend significant effort to create an attractive atmosphere in
    our model homes.







Customer
    Service and Quality Control



Our operating divisions are responsible for pre-closing quality
    control inspections and responding to customers’
    post-closing needs. We believe that a prompt and courteous
    response to homebuyers’ needs during and after construction
    reduces post-closing repair costs, enhances our reputation for
    quality and service and ultimately leads to significant repeat
    and referral business from the real estate community and
    homebuyers. We typically provide our homebuyers with a ten-year
    limited warranty for major defects in structural elements such
    as framing components and foundation systems, a two-year limited
    warranty on major mechanical systems, and a one-year limited
    warranty on other construction components. The subcontractors
    who perform the actual construction also provide us with
    warranties on workmanship and are generally prepared to respond
    to us and the homeowner promptly upon request. In addition, some
    of our suppliers provide manufacturer’s warranties on
    specified products installed in the home.



Sales
    Order Backlog



At September 30, 2010, the value of our backlog of sales
    orders was $850.8 million (4,128 homes), a decrease of 25%
    from $1,142.0 million (5,628 homes) at September 30,
    2009. The average sales price of homes in backlog was $206,100
    at September 30, 2010, up 2% from the $202,900 average at
    September 30, 2009. Sales order backlog represents homes
    under contract but not yet closed at the end of the period. Many
    of the contracts in our sales order backlog are subject to
    contingencies, including mortgage loan approval and





buyers selling their existing homes, which can result in
    cancellations. A portion of the contracts in backlog will not
    result in closings due to cancellations. Substantially all of
    the homes in our sales backlog at September 30, 2010 are
    scheduled to close in fiscal year 2011. Further discussion of
    our backlog is provided in Item 7 “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” under Part II of this annual report onForm 10-K.



Customer
    Mortgage Financing



We provide mortgage financing services principally to purchasers
    of our homes in the majority of our homebuilding markets through
    our wholly-owned subsidiary, DHI Mortgage. DHI Mortgage
    coordinates and expedites the sales transaction by ensuring that
    mortgage commitments are received and that closings take place
    in a timely and efficient manner. DHI Mortgage originates
    mortgage loans for a substantial portion of our homebuyers and,
    when necessary to fulfill the needs of some homebuyers, also
    brokers loans to third-party lenders who directly originate the
    mortgage loans. During the year ended September 30, 2010,
    approximately 90% of DHI Mortgage’s loan volume related to
    homes closed by our homebuilding operations, and DHI Mortgage
    provided mortgage financing services for approximately 61% of
    our total homes closed.



To limit the risks associated with our mortgage operations, DHI
    Mortgage only originates loan products that it believes may be
    sold to third-party purchasers. DHI Mortgage generally sells the
    loans and their servicing rights to third-party purchasers
    shortly after origination with limited recourse provisions. In
    markets where we currently do not provide mortgage financing, we
    work with a variety of mortgage lenders that make available to
    homebuyers a range of mortgage financing programs.



Title Services



Through our subsidiary title companies, we serve as a title
    insurance agent in selected markets by providing title insurance
    policies, examination and closing services to the purchasers of
    homes we build and sell. We currently assume little or no
    underwriting risk associated with these title policies.



Employees



At September 30, 2010, we employed 3,214 persons, of
    whom 860 were sales and marketing personnel, 1,001 were
    executive, administrative and clerical personnel, 678 were
    involved in construction and 675 worked in mortgage and title
    operations. We had fewer than 10 employees covered by
    collective bargaining agreements. Employees of some of the
    subcontractors that we use are represented by labor unions or
    are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believe that
    our relations with our employees and subcontractors are good.



Competition



The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete in
    each of our markets with numerous other national, regional and
    local homebuilders for homebuyers, desirable properties, raw
    materials, skilled labor and financing. We also compete with
    resales of existing homes and with the rental housing market.
    Our homes compete on the basis of quality, price, design,
    mortgage financing terms and location. In the current weak
    housing market, competition among homebuilders has greatly
    intensified, especially as to pricing and incentives, as
    builders attempt to maximize sales volume despite the weak
    housing demand. The current market conditions have also led to a
    large number of foreclosed homes being offered for sale, which
    has increased competition for homebuyers and affected pricing.
    Our financial services business competes with other mortgage
    lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage bankers
    and other financial institutions, some of which have greater
    access to capital, different lending criteria and potentially
    broader product offerings.



Governmental
    Regulation and Environmental Matters



The homebuilding industry is subject to extensive and complex
    regulations. We and the subcontractors we use must comply with
    various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including
    zoning, density and





development requirements, building, environmental, advertising
    and real estate sales rules and regulations. These regulations
    and requirements affect the development process, as well as
    building materials to be used, building designs and minimum
    elevation of properties. Our homes are inspected by local
    authorities where required, and homes eligible for insurance or
    guarantees provided by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA)
    and the Veterans Administration (VA) are subject to inspection
    by them. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the
    administering governmental authorities. In addition, our new
    housing developments may be subject to various assessments for
    schools, parks, streets and other public improvements.



Our homebuilding operations are also subject to a variety of
    local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and
    regulations concerning protection of health, safety and the
    environment. The particular environmental laws for each site
    vary greatly according to location, environmental condition and
    the present and former uses of the site and adjoining properties.



Our mortgage company and title insurance agencies must also
    comply with various federal and state laws and regulations.
    These include eligibility and other requirements for
    participation in the programs offered by the FHA, VA, Government
    National Mortgage Association (GNMA), Federal National Mortgage
    Association (Fannie Mae) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage
    Corporation (Freddie Mac). These also include required
    compliance with consumer lending and other laws and regulations
    such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against
    discrimination and real estate settlement procedures. All of
    these laws and regulations may subject our operations to
    examination by the applicable agencies.



Seasonality



We have typically experienced seasonal variations in our
    quarterly operating results and capital requirements. Prior to
    the current downturn in the homebuilding industry, we generally
    had more homes under construction, closed more homes and had
    greater revenues and operating income in the third and fourth
    quarters of our fiscal year. This seasonal activity increased
    our working capital requirements for our homebuilding operations
    during the third and fourth fiscal quarters and increased our
    funding requirements for the mortgages we originated in our
    financial services segment at the end of these quarters. As a
    result of seasonal activity, our quarterly results of operations
    and financial position at the end of a particular fiscal quarter
    are not necessarily representative of the balance of our fiscal
    year.



In contrast to our typical seasonal results, the weakness in
    homebuilding market conditions during the past four years has
    mitigated our historical seasonal variations. Also, in fiscal
    2010 the expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit impacted
    the timing of our construction activities, home sales and
    closing volumes. Although we may experience our typical
    historical seasonal pattern in the future, given the current
    market conditions, we can make no assurances as to when or
    whether this pattern will recur.



