ITEM 1.BUSINESS



D.R. Horton, Inc. is one of the largest homebuilding companies
    in the United States. We construct and sell homes through our
    operating divisions in 25 states and 73 metropolitan
    markets of the United States, primarily under the name of D.R.
    Horton,America’s Builder. Our common stock is
    included in the S&P 500 Index and listed on the New York
    Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “DHI.” Unless
    the context otherwise requires, the terms “D.R.
    Horton,” the “Company,” “we” and
    “our” used herein refer to D.R. Horton, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation, and its predecessors and subsidiaries.



Donald R. Horton began our homebuilding business in 1978. In
    1991, we were incorporated in Delaware to acquire the assets and
    businesses of our predecessor companies, which were residential
    home construction and development companies owned or controlled
    by Mr. Horton. In 1992, we completed our initial public
    offering of our common stock. Our company’s growth over the
    years was achieved by investing available capital into our
    existing homebuilding markets and intostart-upoperations in new markets. Additionally, we acquired other
    homebuilding companies, which strengthened our position in
    existing markets and expanded our geographic presence and
    product offerings in other markets. Our homes generally range in
    size from 1,000 to 4,000 square feet and in price from
    $90,000 to $600,000. The current downturn in our industry has
    resulted in a substantial decrease in the size of our operations
    during the last five fiscal years as we have adapted to the
    significantly weakened new homes market. For the year ended
    September 30, 2011, we closed 16,695 homes with an average
    closing sales price of approximately $212,200.



Through our financial services operations, we provide mortgage
    financing and title agency services to homebuyers in many of our
    homebuilding markets. DHI Mortgage, our wholly-owned subsidiary,
    provides mortgage financing services principally to the
    purchasers of homes we build. We generally do not retain or
    service the mortgages we originate but, rather, seek to sell the
    mortgages and related servicing rights to third-party
    purchasers. DHI Mortgage originates loans in accordance with
    purchaser guidelines and historically has sold substantially all
    of its mortgage production within 30 days of origination.
    Our subsidiary title companies serve as title insurance agents
    by providing title insurance policies, examination and closing
    services, primarily to the purchasers of our homes.



Our financial reporting segments consist of six homebuilding
    segments and a financial services segment. Our homebuilding
    operations are the most substantial part of our business,
    comprising approximately 98% of consolidated revenues, which
    totaled $3.6 billion in fiscal 2011. Our homebuilding
    operations generate most of their revenues from the sale of
    completed homes, with a lesser amount from the sale of land and
    lots. In addition to building traditional single-family detached
    homes, we also build attached homes, such as town homes,
    duplexes, triplexes and condominiums (including some mid-rise
    buildings), which share common walls and roofs. The sale of
    detached homes generated approximately 88%, 86%, and 81% of home
    sales revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our
    financial services segment generates its revenues from
    originating and selling mortgages and collecting fees for title
    insurance agency and closing services.



Available
    Information



We make available, as soon as reasonably practicable, on our
    Internet website all of our reports required to be filed with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These reports can
    be found on the “Investors” page of our website under
    “SEC Filings” and include our annual and quarterly
    reports onForm 10-Kand10-Q(including related filings in XBRL format), current reports onForm 8-K,beneficial ownership reports on Forms 3, 4, and 5, proxy
    statements and amendments to such reports. Our SEC filings are
    also available to the public on the SEC’s website at
    www.sec.gov, and the public may read and copy any document we
    file at the SEC’s public reference room located at
    100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Further
    information on the operation of the public reference room can be
    obtained by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.In addition to our SEC filings, our corporate governance
    documents, including our Code of Ethical Conduct for the CEO,
    CFO and Senior Financial Officers, are available on the
    “Investors” page of our





website under “Corporate Governance.” Our stockholders
    may also obtain these documents in paper format free of charge
    upon request made to our Investor Relations department.



Our principal executive offices are located at 301 Commerce
    Street, Suite 500, Fort Worth, Texas 76102. Our
    telephone number is(817) 390-8200,and our Internet website address iswww.drhorton.com.
    Information contained on our website is not incorporated by
    reference into this annual report onForm 10-Kunless expressly noted.



Operating
    Strategy and Structure



For a substantial part of our company’s existence, we
    maintained significantyear-over-yeargrowth and profitability. We achieved this growth through an
    operating strategy focused on capturing greater market share,
    while also maintaining a strong balance sheet. To execute our
    strategy, we invested available capital in our existing
    homebuilding markets and opportunistically entered new markets.
    We also actively evaluated homebuilding acquisition
    opportunities as they arose, some of which resulted in
    acquisitions and contributed to our growth.



For the past five years, conditions in the homebuilding industry
    have been challenging. During this time, we have reduced our
    SG&A cost structure, rebid the costs in our homes,
    redesigned our product to be more efficient to build, reduced
    our homes under construction to more closely match current
    demand and enforced very conservative land and lot inventory
    investment guidelines. We have generated significant cash from
    operations by reducing our land inventory, our homes under
    construction and our mortgage loans held for sale, and from
    income tax refunds. We used this cash to reduce our outstanding
    notes payable and to increase our cash balances. As a result of
    all of these actions, we have a strong liquidity position and
    have improved our balance sheet leverage, both on a gross and
    net basis, from the beginning of the housing downturn. We will
    continue to conservatively manage our business, and our
    liquidity and balance sheet strength provide us with flexibility
    in determining the appropriate operating strategy for each of
    our communities and markets to strike the best balance between
    cash flow generation and potential profit.



Geographic
    Diversity



From inception to 1987, our homebuilding activities were
    conducted in the Dallas/Fort Worth area. We then
    diversified geographically by entering additional markets, both
    throughstart-upoperations and acquisitions. We now operate in 25 states
    and 73 markets. This provides us with geographic diversification
    in our homebuilding inventory investments and our sources of
    revenues and earnings. We believe our diversification strategy
    helps to mitigate the effects of local and regional economic
    cycles and enhances our long-term potential.



Economies
    of Scale



We are the largest homebuilding company in the United States in
    terms of number of homes closed in fiscal 2011. By the same
    measure, we are also one of the five largest builders in many of
    our markets in fiscal 2011. We believe that our national,
    regional and local scale of operations has provided us with
    benefits that may not be available in the same degree to some
    other smaller homebuilders, such as:



•Negotiation of volume discounts and rebates from national,
    regional and local materials suppliers and lower labor rates
    from certain subcontractors;•Enhanced leverage of our general and administrative activities,
    which allows us greater flexibility to compete for greater
    market share in each of our markets; and•Greater access to and lower cost of capital, due to our strong
    balance sheet and our lending and capital markets relationships.







Decentralized
    Operations



We decentralize our homebuilding activities to give operating
    flexibility to our local division presidents on certain key
    operating decisions. At September 30, 2011, we had 29
    separate homebuilding operating divisions, many of which operate
    in more than one market area. Generally, each operating division
    consists of a division president; land entitlement, acquisition
    and development personnel; a sales manager and sales personnel;
    a construction manager and construction superintendents;
    customer service personnel; a controller; a purchasing manager
    and office staff. We believe that division presidents and their
    management teams, who are familiar with local conditions,
    generally have better information on which to base decisions
    regarding their operations. Our division presidents receive
    performance bonuses based upon achieving targeted financial and
    operational measures related to their operating divisions.



Operating
    Division Responsibilities



Each operating division is responsible for:



•Site selection, which involves



— A feasibility study;



— Soil and environmental reviews;



— Review of existing zoning and other governmental
    requirements; and



— Review of the need for and extent of offsite work
    required to meet local building codes;



•Negotiating lot option or similar contracts;•Obtaining all necessary land development and home construction
    approvals;•Selecting land development subcontractors and ensuring their
    work meets our contracted scopes;•Selecting building plans and architectural schemes;•Selecting construction subcontractors and ensuring their work
    meets our contracted scopes;•Planning and managing homebuilding schedules;•Developing and implementing local marketing plans; and•Coordinating post-closing customer service and warranty repairs.



Centralized
    Controls



We centralize the key risk elements of our homebuilding business
    through our regional and corporate offices. We have four
    separate homebuilding regional offices. Generally, each regional
    office consists of a region president, legal counsel, a chief
    financial officer, a purchasing manager and limited office
    support staff. Each of our region presidents and their
    management teams are responsible for oversight of the operations
    of certain homebuilding operating divisions, including:



•Review and approval of division business plans and budgets;•Review of all land and lot acquisition contracts;•Oversight of land and home inventory levels; and•Review of major personnel decisions and division president
    compensation plans.



Our corporate executives and corporate office departments are
    responsible for establishing our operational policies and
    internal control standards and for monitoring compliance with
    established policies and controls





throughout our operations. The corporate office also has primary
    responsibility for direct management of certain key risk
    elements and initiatives through the following centralized
    functions:



•Financing;•Cash management;•Risk and litigation management;•Allocation of capital;•Issuance and monitoring of inventory investment guidelines to
    our operating divisions;•Environmental assessments of land and lot acquisitions;•Approval and funding of land and lot acquisitions;•Accounting and management reporting;•Internal audit;•Information technology systems;•Administration of payroll and employee benefits;•Negotiation of national purchasing contracts;•Monitoring and analysis of margins, expenses and
    profitability; and•Administration of customer satisfaction surveys and reporting of
    results.



Cost
    Management



We control overhead costs by centralizing certain administrative
    and accounting functions and by closely monitoring the number of
    administrative personnel and management positions in our
    operating divisions, as well as in our regional and corporate
    offices. We also seek to efficiently manage our advertising
    costs by directing many of our promotional activities toward
    local real estate brokers.



We control construction costs by striving to design our homes
    efficiently and by obtaining competitive bids for construction
    materials and labor. We also seek to negotiate favorable pricing
    from our primary subcontractors and suppliers based on the
    volume of services and products we purchase from them on a
    local, regional and national basis. We monitor our construction
    costs on each house as well as our inventory levels, margins,
    expenses and profitability through our management information
    systems.



Acquisitions



We are committed to maintaining our strong balance sheet and
    liquidity position; however, we will continue to evaluate
    opportunities for strategic acquisitions or expansions of our
    operations. We believe that the current housing industry
    downturn may provide us selected opportunities to enhance our
    operations through the acquisition of existing homebuilding
    companies or distressed real estate properties at attractive
    valuations. In certain instances, such acquisitions can provide
    us benefits not found instart-upoperations, such as: established land positions and inventories;
    and existing relationships with municipalities, land owners,
    developers, subcontractors and suppliers. We seek to limit the
    risks associated with acquiring other companies and distressed
    real estate properties by conducting extensive operational,
    financial and legal due diligence on each acquisition and by
    performing financial analysis to determine that each acquisition
    will have a positive impact on our earnings within an acceptable
    period of time.





Markets



We conduct our homebuilding operations in the geographic
    regions, states and markets listed below, and we conduct our
    mortgage and title operations in many of these markets. Our
    homebuilding operating divisions are aggregated into six
    reporting segments, also referred to as reporting regions, which
    comprise the markets below. Our financial statements contain
    additional information regarding segment performance.



StateReporting Region/MarketEast RegionDelawareCentral DelawareGeorgiaSavannahMarylandBaltimoreSuburban Washington, D.C.New JerseyNorth New JerseySouth New JerseyNorth CarolinaCharlotteFayettevilleGreensboro/Winston-SalemJacksonvilleRaleigh/DurhamWilmingtonPennsylvaniaLancasterPhiladelphiaSouth CarolinaCharlestonColumbiaGreenvilleHilton HeadMyrtle BeachVirginiaNorthern VirginiaMidwest RegionColoradoColorado SpringsDenverFort CollinsIllinoisChicagoMinnesotaMinneapolis/St. PaulSoutheast RegionAlabamaBirminghamMobileMontgomeryTuscaloosaFloridaDaytona BeachFort Myers/NaplesJacksonvilleMelbourne/Vero BeachMiami/West Palm BeachOrlandoPensacola/Panama CityTampa/SarasotaGeorgiaAtlantaMiddle Georgia

StateReporting Region/MarketSouth Central RegionLouisianaBaton RougeLafayetteNew MexicoLas CrucesOklahomaOklahoma CityTexasAustinDallasEl PasoFort WorthHoustonKilleen/Temple/WacoRio Grande ValleySan AntonioSouthwest RegionArizonaPhoenixTucsonNew MexicoAlbuquerqueWest RegionCaliforniaBay AreaCentral ValleyImperial ValleyLos Angeles CountyRiverside CountySacramentoSan Bernardino CountySan Diego CountyVentura CountyHawaiiHawaiiMauiOahuIdahoBoiseNevadaLas VegasRenoOregonPortlandUtahSalt Lake CityWashingtonSeattle/TacomaVancouver









When evaluating new or existing homebuilding markets for
    purposes of capital allocation, we consider local,
    market-specific factors, including among others:



•Economic conditions;•Employment levels and job growth;•Income level of potential homebuyers;•Local housing affordability and typical mortgage products
    utilized;•Market for homes at our targeted price points;•Availability of land and lots on acceptable terms;•Land entitlement and development processes;•New and secondary home sales activity;•Competition; and•Prevailing housing products, features, cost and pricing.



Land
    Policies



We acquire land after we have completed due diligence and
    generally after we have obtained the rights (known as
    entitlements) to begin development or construction work
    resulting in an acceptable number of residential lots. Before we
    acquire lots or tracts of land, we will, among other things,
    complete a feasibility study, which includes soil tests,
    independent environmental studies and other engineering work,
    and evaluate the status of necessary zoning and other
    governmental entitlements required to develop and use the
    property for home construction. Although we purchase and develop
    land primarily to support our homebuilding activities, we also
    sell land and lots to other developers and homebuilders where we
    have excess land and lot positions.



We also enter into land/lot option contracts, in which we obtain
    the right, but generally not the obligation, to buy land or lots
    at predetermined prices on a defined schedule commensurate with
    anticipated home closings or planned development. Our option
    contracts generally are non-recourse, which limits our financial
    exposure to our earnest money deposited with land and lot
    sellers and any pre-acquisition due diligence costs incurred by
    us. This enables us to control land and lot positions with
    limited capital investment, which substantially reduces the
    risks associated with land ownership and development.



Almost all of our land and lot positions are acquired directly
    by us. We have avoided entering into joint venture arrangements
    due to their increased costs and complexity, as well as the loss
    of operational control inherent in such arrangements. We are a
    party to a very small number of joint ventures that were
    acquired through acquisitions of other homebuilders. All of
    these joint ventures are consolidated in our financial
    statements.



We attempt to mitigate our exposure to real estate inventory
    risks by:



•Managing our supply of land/lots controlled (owned and optioned)
    in each market based on anticipated future home closing levels;•Monitoring local market and demographic trends, housing
    preferences and related economic developments, such as new job
    opportunities, local growth initiatives and personal income
    trends;•Utilizing land/lot option contracts, where possible;•Seeking to acquire developed lots which are substantially ready
    for home construction;•Limiting the size of acquired land parcels to smaller tracts,
    where possible;







•Generally commencing construction of custom features or optional
    upgrades on homes under contract only after the buyer’s
    receipt of mortgage approval and receipt of satisfactory
    deposits from the buyer; and•Monitoring and managing the number of speculative homes (homes
    under construction without an executed sales contract) built in
    each subdivision.



Construction



Our home designs are selected or prepared in each of our markets
    to appeal to local tastes and preferences of homebuyers in each
    community. We also offer optional interior and exterior features
    to allow homebuyers to enhance the basic home design and to
    allow us to generate additional revenues from each home sold. We
    continually adjust our product offerings to address our
    customers’ expectations for affordability, home size and
    features.



Substantially all of our construction work is performed by
    subcontractors. Subcontractors typically are selected after a
    competitive bidding process and retained for a specific
    subdivision pursuant to a contract that obligates the
    subcontractor to complete construction at anagreed-uponprice. Agreements with the subcontractors and suppliers we use
    generally are negotiated for each subdivision. We compete with
    other homebuilders for qualified subcontractors, raw materials
    and lots in the markets where we operate. We employ construction
    superintendents to monitor homes under construction, participate
    in major design and building decisions, coordinate the
    activities of subcontractors and suppliers, review the work of
    subcontractors for quality and cost controls and monitor
    compliance with zoning and building codes. In addition, our
    construction superintendents play a significant role in working
    with our homebuyers by assisting with option selection and home
    modification decisions, educating buyers on the construction
    process and instructing buyers on post-closing home maintenance.



Construction time for our homes depends on the weather,
    availability of labor, materials and supplies, size of the home,
    and other factors. We typically complete the construction of a
    home within three to six months.



We typically do not maintain significant inventories of
    construction materials, except for work in progress materials
    for homes under construction. Generally, the construction
    materials used in our operations are readily available from
    numerous sources. We have contracts exceeding one year with
    certain suppliers of our building materials that are cancelable
    at our option with a 30 day notice. In recent years, we
    have not experienced delays in construction due to shortages of
    materials or labor that have materially affected our
    consolidated operating results.



Marketing
    and Sales



We market and sell our homes through commissioned employees and
    independent real estate brokers. We typically conduct home sales
    from sales offices located in furnished model homes in each
    subdivision, and we typically do not offer our model homes for
    sale until the completion of a subdivision. Our sales personnel
    assist prospective homebuyers by providing them with floor
    plans, price information, tours of model homes and assisting
    them with the selection of options and other custom features. We
    train and inform our sales personnel as to the availability of
    financing, construction schedules, and marketing and advertising
    plans. As our customers are typically first-time ormove-uphomebuyers, we attempt to adjust our product mix and pricing
    within our homebuilding markets to keep our homes affordable. As
    market conditions warrant, we may provide potential homebuyers
    with one or more of a variety of incentives, including discounts
    and free upgrades, to be competitive in a particular market.



We market our homes and communities to prospective homebuyers
    and real estate brokers in our local markets through electronic
    media, including email, social networking sites and our company
    Internet website, as well as brochures, flyers, newsletters and
    promotional events. We also use billboards, radio, television
    and newspaper advertising as necessary in each local market. To
    minimize advertising costs, we attempt to operate in
    subdivisions in conspicuous locations that permit us to take
    advantage of local traffic patterns. We believe





that model homes play a substantial role in our marketing
    efforts and therefore expend significant effort to create an
    attractive atmosphere in our model homes.



We also build a limited number of speculative homes in most of
    our subdivisions. These homes enhance our marketing and sales
    efforts to prospective homebuyers who are relocating to these
    markets, as well as to independent brokers, who often represent
    homebuyers requiring a completed home within a short time frame.
    We determine our speculative homes strategy in each market based
    on local market factors, such as new job growth, the number of
    job relocations, housing demand and supply, seasonality, current
    sales contract cancellation trends and our past experience in
    the market. We expect to maintain a level of speculative home
    inventory in our markets based on our current and planned sales
    pace, and we monitor and adjust speculative home inventory on an
    ongoing basis as conditions warrant. Speculative homes help to
    provide us with opportunities to sell additional homes at a
    profit and generate positive returns and cash flows on our
    inventory of owned lots.



Our sales contracts require an earnest money deposit which
    varies in amount among our markets and subdivisions.
    Additionally, customers are generally required to pay additional
    deposits when they select options or upgrade features for their
    homes. Most of our sales contracts stipulate that when customers
    cancel their contracts with us, we have the right to retain
    their earnest money and option deposits; however, our operating
    divisions occasionally choose to refund the deposit. Our sales
    contracts also include a financing contingency which permits
    customers to cancel and receive a refund of their deposit if
    they cannot obtain mortgage financing at prevailing or specified
    interest rates within a specified period. Our contracts may
    include other contingencies, such as the sale of an existing
    home. As a percentage of gross sales orders, cancellations of
    sales contracts in fiscal 2011 were 27%, compared to 26% in
    fiscal 2010. The length of time between the signing of a sales
    contract for a home and delivery of the home to the buyer
    (closing) is generally from two to six months.



Customer
    Service and Quality Control



Our operating divisions are responsible for pre-closing quality
    control inspections and responding to customers’
    post-closing needs. We believe that a prompt and courteous
    response to homebuyers’ needs during and after construction
    reduces post-closing repair costs, enhances our reputation for
    quality and service and ultimately leads to significant repeat
    and referral business from the real estate community and
    homebuyers. We typically provide our homebuyers with a ten-year
    limited warranty for major defects in structural elements such
    as framing components and foundation systems, a two-year limited
    warranty on major mechanical systems, and a one-year limited
    warranty on other construction components. The subcontractors
    who perform the actual construction also provide us with
    warranties on workmanship and are generally prepared to respond
    to us and the homeowner promptly upon request. In addition, some
    of our suppliers provide manufacturer’s warranties on
    specified products installed in the home.



Sales
    Order Backlog



At September 30, 2011, the value of our backlog of sales
    orders was $1,036.2 million (4,854 homes), an increase of
    22% from $850.8 million (4,128 homes) at September 30,
    2010. The average sales price of homes in backlog was $213,500
    at September 30, 2011, up 4% from the $206,100 average at
    September 30, 2010. Sales order backlog represents homes
    under contract but not yet closed at the end of the period. Many
    of the contracts in our sales order backlog are subject to
    contingencies, including mortgage loan approval and buyers
    selling their existing homes, which can result in cancellations.
    A portion of the contracts in backlog will not result in
    closings due to cancellations. Substantially all of the homes in
    our sales backlog at September 30, 2011 are scheduled to
    close in fiscal year 2012. Further discussion of our backlog is
    provided in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”
    under Part II of this annual report onForm 10-K.





Customer
    Mortgage Financing



We provide mortgage financing services principally to purchasers
    of our homes in the majority of our homebuilding markets through
    our wholly-owned subsidiary, DHI Mortgage. DHI Mortgage
    coordinates and expedites the sales transaction by ensuring that
    mortgage commitments are received and that closings take place
    in a timely and efficient manner. DHI Mortgage originates
    mortgage loans for a substantial portion of our homebuyers.
    During the year ended September 30, 2011, approximately 85%
    of DHI Mortgage’s loan volume related to homes closed by
    our homebuilding operations, and DHI Mortgage provided mortgage
    financing services for approximately 61% of our total homes
    closed.



To limit the risks associated with our mortgage operations, DHI
    Mortgage originates loan products that we believe can be sold to
    third-party purchasers. DHI Mortgage generally sells the loans
    and their servicing rights to third-party purchasers shortly
    after origination with limited recourse provisions. In markets
    where we currently do not provide mortgage financing, we work
    with a variety of mortgage lenders that make available to
    homebuyers a range of mortgage financing programs.



Title Services



Through our subsidiary title companies, we serve as a title
    insurance agent in selected markets by providing title insurance
    policies, examination and closing services primarily to the
    purchasers of homes we build and sell. We currently assume
    little or no underwriting risk associated with these title
    policies.



Employees



At September 30, 2011, we employed 3,010 persons, of
    whom 804 were sales and marketing personnel, 959 were executive,
    administrative and clerical personnel, 619 were involved in
    construction and 628 worked in mortgage and title operations. We
    believe that our relations with our employees are good.



Competition



The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete with
    numerous other national, regional and local homebuilders for
    homebuyers, desirable properties, raw materials, skilled labor,
    employees, management talent and financing. We also compete with
    resales of existing homes and with the rental housing market.
    Our homes compete on the basis of quality, price, design,
    mortgage financing terms and location. Our competition remains
    intense with other homebuilders, especially as to pricing and
    incentives. Additionally, the large number of foreclosed homes
    being offered for sale creates competition for homebuyers and
    negatively affects pricing. Our financial services business
    competes with other mortgage lenders, including national,
    regional and local mortgage bankers and other financial
    institutions, many of which have greater access to capital,
    different lending criteria and potentially broader product
    offerings.



Governmental
    Regulation and Environmental Matters



The homebuilding industry is subject to extensive and complex
    regulations. We and the subcontractors we use must comply with
    various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including
    zoning, density and development requirements, building,
    environmental, advertising, labor and real estate sales rules
    and regulations. These regulations and requirements affect the
    development process, as well as building materials to be used,
    building designs and minimum elevation of properties. Our homes
    are inspected by local authorities where required, and homes
    eligible for insurance or guarantees provided by the Federal
    Housing Administration (FHA) and the Veterans Administration
    (VA) are subject to inspection by them. These regulations often
    provide broad discretion to the administering governmental
    authorities. In addition, our new housing developments may be
    subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and
    other public improvements.



Our homebuilding operations are also subject to a variety of
    local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and
    regulations concerning protection of health, safety and the
    environment. The particular environmental laws for each site
    vary greatly according to location, environmental condition and
    the present and former uses of the site and adjoining properties.





Our mortgage company and title insurance agencies must comply
    with various federal and state laws and regulations. These
    include eligibility and other requirements for participation in
    the programs offered by the FHA, VA, Government National
    Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae), Federal National Mortgage
    Association (Fannie Mae) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage
    Corporation (Freddie Mac). These also include required
    compliance with consumer lending and other laws and regulations
    such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against
    discrimination and real estate settlement procedures. These laws
    and regulations subject our operations to examination by the
    applicable agencies.



Seasonality



We have typically experienced seasonal variations in our
    quarterly operating results and capital requirements. Prior to
    the current downturn in the homebuilding industry which began to
    affect our seasonal patterns in fiscal 2007, we generally had
    more homes under construction, closed more homes and had greater
    revenues and operating income in the third and fourth quarters
    of our fiscal year. This seasonal activity increased our working
    capital requirements for our homebuilding operations during the
    third and fourth fiscal quarters and increased our funding
    requirements for the mortgages we originated in our financial
    services segment at the end of these quarters. As a result of
    seasonal activity, our quarterly results of operations and
    financial position at the end of a particular fiscal quarter are
    not necessarily representative of the balance of our fiscal year.



Although the weakness in homebuilding market conditions
    mitigated our historical seasonal variations in recent years,
    our home closings and income before income taxes were higher in
    the second half of fiscal 2011 than in the first half of the
    year. However, given the current uncertain outlook for market
    conditions we can make no assurances as to whether this pattern
    will continue beyond the current fiscal year.



