Item 1.    BUSINESS.

Company Background

Avery Dennison Corporation ("Avery Dennison," the "Company," "Registrant," or "Issuer," and which may be referred to as "we" or "us")
was incorporated in Delaware in 1977 as Avery International Corporation, the successor corporation to a California corporation of the same name that had been incorporated in 1946. In 1990, we merged
one of our subsidiaries into Dennison Manufacturing Company ("Dennison"), as a result of which Dennison became our wholly-owned subsidiary and in connection with which our name was changed to Avery
Dennison Corporation. You can learn more about us by visiting our website at www.averydennison.com. Our website address provided in this Form 10-K is not
intended to function as a hyperlink and the information on our website is not, nor should it be considered, part of this report or incorporated by reference in this report.

Business Overview and Reportable Segments

Our businesses include the production of pressure-sensitive materials, and a variety of tickets, tags, labels other converted products,
and office and consumer products. Some pressure-sensitive materials are sold to label printers and converters that "convert" the materials into labels and other products through embossing, printing,
stamping and die-cutting. Some are sold by us in converted form as printable media, tapes and reflective sheeting. We also manufacture and sell a variety of office and consumer products,
other converted products and items not involving pressure-sensitive components, such as binders, organizing systems, markers, fasteners and business forms, as well as tickets, tags, radio-frequency
identification ("RFID") inlays and tags, and imprinting equipment and related services for retailers and apparel manufacturers.

Our
reportable segments in 2012 were:

•Pressure-sensitive Materials; and•Retail Branding and Information Solutions.

In
the fourth quarter of 2012, we realigned our segment reporting to reflect a new operating structure. This included the consolidation of certain operations, the streamlining of our
corporate organization, and the realignment of organizational structures and accountabilities. These actions were reflected in the movement of Performance Tapes and RFID inlay manufacturing businesses
from other specialty converting businesses into our reportable segments. Our Performance Tapes business is now included in the Pressure-sensitive Materials ("PSM") segment, and our RFID inlay
manufacturing business is now included in the Retail Branding and Information Solutions ("RBIS") segment. In addition, we adopted a new corporate expense allocation methodology whereby the allocation
of corporate costs to the segments and other businesses was refined to better reflect costs required to support their respective operations. Under the new methodology, costs for which (i) a
significant portion of the benefit derived from activity directly relates to operating unit performance, and (ii) the level of resourcing is impacted by operating unit decisions, are fully
allocated to operations. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to reflect these changes.

In
addition to our reportable segments, we have other specialty converting businesses comprised of Vancive Medical Technologies™ ("Vancive") and Designed and Engineered
Solutions ("DES").

In
2011, we entered into an agreement to sell our Office and Consumer Products ("OCP") business to 3M Company ("3M"). On October 3, 2012, we and 3M mutually agreed to terminate
the agreement. On January 29, 2013, we entered into an agreement to sell our OCP and DES businesses to CCL Industries Inc. ("CCL") for a total purchase price of
$500 million in cash, subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, and is expected
to close in mid-2013. The operating results of the DES business,









reported
in our other specialty converting businesses for all periods presented in this Form 10-K, are expected to be classified as discontinued operations beginning in the first
quarter of 2013. The OCP business is reported as discontinued operations in this Form 10-K.

In
2012, the PSM and RBIS segments contributed approximately 71% and 25%, of our total sales, respectively.

In
2012, international operations constituted a substantial majority of our business, representing approximately 72% of our sales. As of December 29, 2012, we operated
approximately 200
manufacturing and distribution facilities worldwide, employed approximately 30,000 persons, and had operations in over 50 countries.

Pressure-sensitive Materials Segment

Our PSM segment manufactures and sells Fasson®-, JAC®-, and Avery Dennison®-brand
pressure-sensitive label and packaging materials, Avery®- and Avery Dennison®-brand graphics and graphic films, Avery Dennison®-brand reflective products, Avery
Dennison®-brand tapes and performance polymers (largely used to manufacture pressure-sensitive materials). The business of this segment tends not to be seasonal, except for certain outdoor
graphics and reflective products and operations in Europe. Pressure-sensitive materials consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and fabrics, which are coated with company-developed and
purchased adhesives, and then laminated with specially coated backing papers and films. They are sold in roll or sheet form with either solid or patterned adhesive coatings, and are available in a
wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties. These label and packaging materials are sold worldwide to label printers and converters for labeling, decorating, fastening,
electronic data processing and special applications in the home and personal care, beer and beverage, durables, pharmaceutical, wine and spirits, and food market segments.

A
pressure-sensitive, or self-adhesive, material is one that adheres to a surface by press-on contact. It generally consists of four elements: a face material,
which may be paper, metal foil, plastic film or fabric; an adhesive, which may be permanent or removable; a release coating; and a backing material to protect the adhesive against premature contact
with other surfaces, which can also serve as the carrier for supporting and dispensing individual labels. When the products are to be used, the release coating and protective backing are removed,
exposing the adhesive, and the label or other face material is pressed or rolled into place.

Because
self-adhesive materials are easy to apply without the need for adhesive activation, the use of self-adhesive materials can provide cost savings compared
with other materials that require heat- or moisture-activated adhesives. When used in package decoration applications, the visual appeal of self-adhesive materials helps foster
increased sales of the product on which the materials are applied. Self-adhesive materials provide consistent and versatile adhesion and are available in a large selection of materials in
nearly any size, shape and color.

Our
graphics and reflective businesses sell a variety of films and other products to the architectural, commercial sign, digital printing, and other related market segments. We also sell
durable cast and reflective films to the construction, automotive, and fleet transportation market segments; and reflective films for traffic and safety applications. We provide sign shops, commercial
printers and designers a broad range of pressure-sensitive materials to enable the creation of impactful and informative, brand
and decorative graphics. We have an array of pressure-sensitive vinyl and specialty materials designed for digital imaging, screen printing and sign cutting applications.

Our
performance tapes business manufactures and sells coated tapes and adhesive transfer tapes for use in non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems in various
industries. These tapes are sold to industrial original equipment manufacturers, converters, and disposable diaper producers worldwide in roll form and are available in a wide range of face materials,
sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties.









Performance
polymer products include a range of solvent- and emulsion-based acrylic polymer adhesives, protective coatings and other polymer additives for internal use, as well as for
sale to other companies.

In
the PSM segment, our larger competitors for our label and packaging materials business include Raflatac, a subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene Corporation, MacTac, a division of
Bemis Company, Ritrama, Inc., Flexcon Corporation, Inc., and various regional firms. For graphics and reflective products, our largest competitors are 3M and the Orafol Group. For
performance tapes, our competitors include 3M, Tesa-SE, and Nitto Denko Corporation. We believe that entry of competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and materials is
limited by technical knowledge and capital requirements. We believe that our technical knowledge, relative size and scale of operations, ability to serve our customers with a broad line of quality
products and service programs, distribution and brand strength, and development and commercialization of new products are among the more significant factors in maintaining and further developing our
competitive position.

Retail Branding and Information Solutions Segment

Our RBIS segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of branding and information solutions to retailers, brand owners,
apparel manufacturers, distributors and industrial customers on a global basis. The business of this segment tends to be seasonal, with higher volume generally in advance of the fall
(back-to-school), spring and holiday shipping periods.

RBIS
branding solutions include creative services, brand embellishments, graphic tickets, tags, and labels, and sustainable packaging. RBIS information solutions include
RFID-enabled inventory accuracy, visibility and loss prevention solutions, price ticketing and marking, care, content, and country or origin compliance solutions, and brand protection and
security solutions.

In
the RBIS segment, our competitors include Checkpoint Systems, Inc., R-pac Internation Corporation, and SML Group Limited. We believe that our global distribution
network, reliable service, product quality and consistency and our ability to serve our customers consistently wherever they manufacture with comprehensive solutions are the key advantages in
maintaining and further developing our competitive position.

Other specialty converting businesses

Other specialty converting businesses include our DES and Vancive businesses. These businesses manufacture and sell specialty tapes,
highly engineered films, pressure-sensitive postage stamps and other converted products. These businesses are generally not seasonal, except for certain automotive products due to plant shutdowns by
automotive manufacturers.

Our
DES business manufactures custom pressure-sensitive labels and multi-layer film constructions for durable goods, electronics and consumer packaged goods. These products are sold
primarily to original equipment manufacturers, tier suppliers and packaging converters. For the automotive market segment, the business manufactures custom pressure-sensitive and heat-seal
labels, and pressure-sensitive films, which are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers. Businesses within our DES division include our performance films business, which
produces a variety of decorative and functional films designed for injection mold applications that are sold primarily to the automotive industry, and specialty print-receptive films to the industrial
label market segment and proprietary wood grain and other patterns of film laminates for housing exteriors; our business media business, which designs and markets customized products for printing and
information workflow applications; and our security printing business, which manufactures and sells self-adhesive battery labels to a battery manufacturer and self-adhesive
stamps to the U.S. Postal Service.









Our
Vancive business manufactures an array of pressure-sensitive adhesive products for surgical, wound care, ostomy, and electromedical applications. These products are sold primarily to
medical supply and device manufacturers and healthcare providers.

We
compete with a number of diverse businesses. We believe that entry of competitors into these specialty converting businesses is limited by capital and technical requirements. We
believe that our ability to serve our customers with quality, cost-effective products and newly-developed and commercialized products are among the more significant factors in developing
and maintaining our competitive position.

Office and Consumer Products

Our Office and Consumer Products business manufactures and sells a wide range of Avery®-branded printable media and other
products. We develop, manufacture, source and sell a wide range of Avery®-branded products for office, school and home uses, including printable media, such as copier, ink-jet
and laser printer labels, related computer software, ink-jet and laser printer card and index products, and organization, filing and presentation products, such as binders, dividers and
sheet protectors. We also offer a wide range of other stationery products, including writing instruments, markers, adhesives and specialty products under brand names such as Avery®,
Marks-A-Lot® and HI-LITER®. The array of our product offerings varies by geographic market.

This
business tends to be seasonal, with higher volume related to the back-to-school season. In addition, this business's sales are concentrated in a few major
customers, primarily office products superstores, mass market retailers and wholesalers. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the business's financial
results.

In
this business, our larger competitors include 3M, Acco Brands Corporation, Esselte Corporation and private-label brands. We believe that the more significant factors in maintaining
and further developing our competitive position include our brand strength, customer relationships, service excellence, large installed base of software that facilitates the use of many of our
products, ability to serve our customers with a broad line of quality products, and development and commercialization of new products.

Segment Financial Information

Certain financial information on our reporting segments and other specialty converting businesses for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010
appears in Note 12, "Segment
Information," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders (our "2012 Annual Report") and is incorporated herein by reference.

Foreign Operations

Certain financial information about our geographic areas for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 appears in Note 12, "Segment
Information," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our 2012 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

Working Capital

Certain financial information about our working capital for fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 appears in the "Financial Condition"
section of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our 2012 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

Many of our current products are the result of our research and development efforts. Our research efforts are directed primarily toward
developing new products and operating techniques and improving product performance, often in close association with customers. These efforts also include patent and product development work, and focus
on improving adhesives, materials and coating processes, as well as









related
product applications and ventures. In addition, these efforts often focus on projects relating to printing and coating technologies, as well as adhesive, release and ink chemistries.

Our
expenses for research and development were $105.1 million in 2012, $96.2 million in 2011, and $88.4 million in 2010.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments individually.
Our principal trademarks are Avery Dennison, our logo, Fasson and Avery. We believe these trademarks are significantly strong in the market segments in which our products compete.

Manufacturing and Environmental Matters

We use various raw materials, primarily paper, plastic films and resins, as well as specialty chemicals purchased from various
commercial and industrial sources, which are subject to price fluctuations. Although shortages can occur from time to time, these raw materials are generally available.

We
produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies. Emissions from these operations contain small
amounts of volatile organic compounds, which are regulated by agencies of federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to
minimize these emissions.

A
portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive materials utilizes certain organic solvents which, unless controlled, could be emitted into the atmosphere. Emissions
of these substances are regulated by agencies of federal, state, local and foreign governments. In connection with the maintenance and acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment, we invest in
solvent capture and control units to assist in regulating these emissions.

We
have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives, hot-melt adhesives, and solventless and emulsion silicone
systems have been installed in many of our facilities.

Based
on current information, we do not believe that the cost of complying with applicable laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position or results of operations.

For
information regarding our potential responsibility for cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see "Legal Proceedings" (Part I, Item 3) and "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" (Part II, Item 7).

Available Information

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge in the "Investors" section of our website at www.averydennison.com as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing with or furnishing to the
SEC. We also make available on our website our (i) Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, (ii) Amended and Restated Bylaws, (iii) Corporate Governance Guidelines,
(iv) Code of Conduct, which applies to our directors, officers and employees, (v) Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, (vi) the charters
of the Audit, Compensation and Executive Personnel, and Governance and Social Responsibility Committees of our Board of Directors, and (vii) Audit Committee Complaint Procedures for Accounting
and Auditing Matters. These documents are also available free of charge in print to stockholders who request them by writing to: Secretary, Avery Dennison Corporation, 150 North Orange Grove
Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91103.









