Item 1.BUSINESS.

Company Background

Avery Dennison Corporation (“Avery Dennison,” the “Company,” “Registrant,”
or “Issuer,” and which may be referred to as “we” or “us”) was incorporated in Delaware in 1977 as Avery International Corporation, the successor corporation to a California corporation of the same name that had been
incorporated in 1946. In 1990, we merged one of our subsidiaries into Dennison Manufacturing Company (“Dennison”), as a result of which Dennison became our wholly-owned subsidiary and in connection with which our name was changed to Avery
Dennison Corporation.You can learn more about us by visiting our website at www.averydennison.com. Our website address provided in this Form 10-K is not intended to function as a hyperlink and the information on our website is not, nor should it
be considered, part of this report or incorporated by reference in this report.

Business Overview and Reporting Segments

Our businesses include the production of pressure-sensitive materials, and a variety of tickets, tags,
labels other converted products, and office and consumer products. Some pressure-sensitive materials are sold to label printers and converters that “convert” the materials into labels and other products through embossing, printing,
stamping and die-cutting. Some are sold by us in converted form as printable media, tapes and reflective sheeting. We also manufacture and sell a variety of office and consumer products, other converted products and items not involving
pressure-sensitive components, such as binders, organizing systems, markers, fasteners and business forms, as well as tickets, tags, radio-frequency identification (“RFID”) inlays and labels, and imprinting equipment and related services
for retailers and apparel manufacturers.

Our reportable segments in 2011 were:



•Pressure-sensitive Materials; and



•Retail Branding and Information Solutions.

In 2011, we entered into an agreement to sell our Office and Consumer Products business to 3M Company (“3M”) for
gross cash proceeds of $550 million, subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. This business is reported as a discontinued operation in
this Form 10-K.

In addition to our reporting segments, we have other specialty converting businesses comprised
of several businesses that produce specialty tapes and highly engineered labels including RFID inlays and labels, and other converted products.

In 2011, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment and Retail Branding and Information Solutions segment contributed approximately 66% and 25%, respectively, of our total sales.

In 2011, international operations constituted a substantial majority of our business, representing approximately 73% of
our sales. As of December 31, 2011, we operated approximately 200 manufacturing and distribution facilities worldwide, employed over 30,000 persons, and conducted business in over 60 countries.

Pressure-sensitive Materials Segment

Our Pressure-sensitive Materials segment manufactures and sells
Fasson®-, JAC®-, and Avery Dennison®-brand
pressure-sensitive label and packaging materials, Avery®- and Avery Dennison®-brand graphics and graphic films, Avery Dennison®-brand reflective products, and performance polymers (largely used to manufacture pressure-sensitive materials). The business of this segment tends not to be seasonal,
except for certain outdoor graphics and reflective products and operations in Western Europe. Pressure-sensitive materials consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and fabrics, which are coated with Company-developed and purchased
adhesives, and then laminated with specially coated backing papers and films. They are sold in roll or







sheet form with either solid or patterned adhesive coatings, and are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties. These label and packaging materials
are sold worldwide to label printers and converters for labeling, decorating, fastening, electronic data processing and special applications in the home and personal care, beer and beverage, durables, pharmaceutical, wine and spirits, and food
market segments.

A pressure-sensitive, or self-adhesive, material is one that adheres to a surface by press-on
contact. It generally consists of four elements: a face material, which may be paper, metal foil, plastic film or fabric; an adhesive, which may be permanent or removable; a release coating; and a backing material to protect the adhesive against
premature contact with other surfaces, and which can also serve as the carrier for supporting and dispensing individual labels. When the products are to be used, the release coating and protective backing are removed, exposing the adhesive, and the
label or other face material is pressed or rolled into place.

Because self-adhesive materials are easy to
apply without the need for adhesive activation, the use of self-adhesive materials can provide cost savings compared with other materials that require heat- or moisture-activated adhesives. When used in package decoration applications, the visual
appeal of self-adhesive materials often helps foster increased sales of the product on which the materials are applied. Self-adhesive materials provide consistent and versatile adhesion and are available in a large selection of materials in nearly
any size, shape and color.

Our graphics solutions consist of a variety of films and other products sold to the
architectural, commercial sign, digital printing, and other related market segments. We also sell durable cast and reflective films to the construction, automotive, and fleet transportation market segments; scrim-reinforced vinyl material for banner
sign applications; and reflective films for traffic and safety applications. Our graphics and reflective businesses are organized on a worldwide basis to serve the expanding commercial graphic arts market segment, including wide-format digital
printing applications. We also manufacture and sell proprietary weather-resistant films that are used for outdoor applications.

Performance polymer products include a range of solvent- and emulsion-based acrylic polymer adhesives, protective coatings and other polymer additives for internal use, as well as for sale to other
companies.

In this segment, our larger competitors for label and packaging materials are Raflatac, a
subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene, and Morgan Adhesives, a division of Bemis Company, Inc. For graphics and reflective products, our largest competitor is 3M Company. We believe that entry of competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and
materials is limited by technical knowledge and capital requirements. We believe that our technical knowledge, relative size and scale of operations, ability to serve our customers with a broad line of quality products and service programs,
distribution and brand strength, and development and commercialization of new products are among the more significant factors in maintaining and further developing our competitive position.

Retail Branding and Information Solutions Segment

Our
Retail Branding and Information Solutions segment designs, manufactures and sells a wide variety of brand identification and information management products for retailers, apparel manufacturers, distributors and industrial customers on a worldwide
basis. The business of this segment tends to be seasonal, with higher volume generally in advance of the fall (back-to-school), spring, and holiday shipping periods.

Our brand identification products include woven and printed labels, graphic tags and barcode tags. Our information
management products include price tickets, carton labels, RFID tags and printing applications. Services include supply chain and security management, and retail store efficiency. Our solution-enabling products include printers, fastening and
application devices, and security management products.

In this segment, our competitors include SML Group and
Checkpoint Systems. We believe that our ability to serve our customers consistently wherever they manufacture with comprehensive brand identification and information management solutions, and our global distribution network, reliable service, and
product quality and consistency are the key advantages in maintaining and further developing our competitive position.







Other specialty converting businesses

Other specialty converting businesses include our performance tapes, designed and engineered solutions, and RFID
businesses. These businesses manufacture and sell specialty tapes, highly engineered films, RFID inlays and labels, pressure-sensitive postage stamps and other converted products. These businesses are generally not seasonal, except for certain
automotive products due to plant shutdowns by automotive manufacturers.

The performance tapes business
manufactures and sells single- and double-coated tapes and adhesive transfer tapes for use in non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems in various industries. These tapes are sold to industrial and medical original equipment
manufacturers, converters, and disposable diaper producers worldwide in roll form and are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and adhesive properties.

Our designed and engineered solutions business manufactures custom pressure-sensitive labels and multi-layer film
constructions for durable goods, electronics and consumer packaged goods. These products are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers, tier suppliers and packaging converters. For the automotive market segment, the businesses manufacture
custom pressure-sensitive and heat-seal labels, pressure-sensitive films and engineered fasteners, which are sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers and their suppliers. Businesses within our designed and engineered solutions division
include our performance films business, which produces a variety of decorative and functional films designed for injection mold applications that are sold primarily to the automotive industry; our business media business, which designs and markets
customized products for printing and information workflow applications; and our security printing business, which manufactures and sells self-adhesive battery labels to a battery manufacturer and self-adhesive stamps to the U.S. Postal Service. In
addition, we sell specialty print-receptive films to the industrial label market segment and proprietary wood grain and other patterns of film laminates for housing exteriors.

Our RFID business manufactures RFID inlays and labels for use in the Retail Branding and Information Solutions segment and
other end market segments.

We compete with a number of diverse businesses. Our largest competitor for this
group of businesses is 3M in the performance tapes business. We believe that entry of competitors into these specialty converting businesses is limited by capital and technical requirements. We believe that our ability to serve our customers with
quality, cost effective products and newly-developed and commercialized products are among the more significant factors in developing and maintaining our competitive position.

Office and Consumer Products

Our
Office and Consumer Products business manufactures and sells a wide range of Avery®-branded printable media and
other products. This business tends to be seasonal, with higher volume related to the back-to-school season. In 2011, we signed a definitive agreement with 3M under which 3M agreed to purchase the Office and Consumer Products business. The results
of this business have been classified as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.

This business’s sales are concentrated in a few major customers, primarily office products superstores, mass market distributors and wholesalers. The loss of one or more of these customers could have
a material adverse effect on the business’s financial results. We manufacture and sell a wide range of
Avery®-branded products for office, school and home uses, including printable media, such as copier, ink-jet and
laser printer labels, related computer software, ink-jet and laser printer card and index products, and organization, filing and presentation products, such as binders, dividers and sheet protectors. We also offer a wide range of other stationery
products, including writing instruments, markers, adhesives and specialty products under brand names such as
Avery®, Marks-A-Lot®and HI-LITER®. The array of
our product offerings varies by geographic market.

In this business, our larger competitors include 3M, Acco
Brands Corporation, Esselte Corporation and manufacturers of private-label brands. We believe that the more significant factors in maintaining and further developing our competitive position include our brand strength, customer relationships,
service excellence, large







installed base of software that facilitates the use of many of our products, ability to serve our customers with a broad line of quality products, and development and commercialization of new
products.

Segment Financial Information

Certain financial information on our reporting segments and other specialty converting businesses for the three years ended December 31, 2011 appears in Note 12, “Segment Information,” in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders (our “2011 Annual Report”) and is incorporated herein by reference.

Foreign Operations

Certain financial information about our
geographic areas for the three years ended December 31, 2011 appears in Note 12, “Segment Information,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our 2011 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

Research and Development

Many of our current products are the result of our research and development efforts. Our expenses for research, design and testing of new products and applications by our operating units and the Avery
Research Center located in Pasadena, California and the Philip M. Neal Asia Pacific Research Center in Kunshan, China (the “Research Centers”) were $92.4 million in 2011, $85.6 million in 2010, and $78.9 million in 2009.

Our operating units’ research efforts are directed primarily toward developing new products and operating techniques
and improving product performance, often in close association with customers. The Research Centers support our operating units’ patent and product development work, and focuses on improving adhesives, materials and coating processes, as well as
related product applications and ventures. These efforts often focus on projects relating to printing and coating technologies, as well as adhesive, release and ink chemistries.

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

The loss of individual
patents or licenses would not be material to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery, Fasson, Avery Dennison and our logo. We believe these trademarks are significant in the market segments
in which our products compete.

Manufacturing and Environmental Matters

We use various raw materials, primarily paper, plastic films and resins, as well as specialty chemicals purchased from
various commercial and industrial sources, which are subject to price fluctuations. Although shortages could occur from time to time, these raw materials are generally available.

We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies.
Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of volatile organic compounds, which are regulated by agencies of federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to
minimize these emissions.

A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive materials utilizes certain
organic solvents which, unless controlled, would be emitted into the atmosphere. Emissions of these substances are regulated by agencies of federal, state, local and foreign governments. In connection with the maintenance and acquisition of certain
manufacturing equipment, we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in regulating these emissions.

We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives,
hot-melt adhesives or solventless silicone systems have been installed in many of our facilities.







Based on current information, we do not believe that the cost of complying
with applicable laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

For information regarding our potential responsibility for cleanup costs at certain hazardous
waste sites, see “Legal Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3) and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (Part II, Item 7).

Available Information

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge in the “Investors” section of our website at www.averydennison.com as soon as reasonably practicable
after electronic filing with or furnishing to the SEC. We make available on our website our (i) Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, (ii) Amended and Restated Bylaws, (iii) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (iv) Code
of Conduct, which applies to our directors, officers and employees, (v) Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, (vi) the charters of the Audit, Compensation and Executive Personnel, and Governance and
Social Responsibility Committees of our Board of Directors, (vii) Audit Committee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters, and (viii) Categorical Independence Standards. These materials are also available free of charge in
print to stockholders who request them by writing to: Secretary, Avery Dennison Corporation, 150 North Orange Grove Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91103.



