Item 1.BUSINESS



Company
    Background



Avery Dennison Corporation (“Avery Dennison,” the
    “Company,” “Registrant,” “Issuer,”
    which may be referred to as “we” or “us”)
    was incorporated in 1977 in the state of Delaware as Avery
    International Corporation, the successor corporation to a
    California corporation of the same name, which was incorporated
    in 1946. In 1990, the Company merged one of its subsidiaries
    into Dennison Manufacturing Company (“Dennison”), as a
    result of which Dennison became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
    Company, and in connection with which the Company’s name
    was changed to Avery Dennison Corporation.Our homepage on
    the internet is www.averydennison.com and you can learn more
    about us by visiting our Web site. Our Web site address provided
    in this annual report onForm 10-Kis not intended to function as a hyperlink and the information
    on our Web site is not and should not be considered part of this
    report and is not incorporated by reference in this document.



Business
    Overview and Reporting Segments



Our businesses include the production of pressure-sensitive
    materials, office products and a variety of tickets, tags,
    labels and other converted products. Some pressure-sensitive
    materials are sold to label printers and converters that
    “convert” the materials into labels and other products
    through embossing, printing, stamping and die-cutting. Some are
    sold by us in converted form as printable media, tapes and
    reflective sheeting. We also manufacture and sell a variety of
    office products and other converted products and other items not
    involving pressure-sensitive components, such as binders,
    organizing systems, markers, fasteners, business forms, as well
    as tickets, tags, radio-frequency identification
    (“RFID”) inlays and labels, and imprinting equipment
    for retail and apparel manufacturers.



A pressure-sensitive, or self-adhesive, material is one that
    adheres to a surface by press-on contact. It generally consists
    of four elements: a face material, which may be paper, metal
    foil, plastic film or fabric; an adhesive, which may be
    permanent or removable; a release coating; and a backing
    material to protect the adhesive against premature contact with
    other surfaces, and which can also serve as the carrier for
    supporting and dispensing individual labels. When the products
    are to be used, the release coating and protective backing are
    removed, exposing the adhesive, and the label or other face
    material is pressed or rolled into place.



Because self-adhesive materials are easy to apply without the
    need for adhesive activation, the use of self-adhesive materials
    often provides cost savings compared with other materials that
    require heat- or moisture-activated adhesives. When used in
    package decoration applications, the visual appeal of
    self-adhesive materials often helps foster increased sales of
    the product on which the materials are applied. Self-adhesive
    materials provide consistent and versatile adhesion and are
    available in a large selection of materials in nearly any size,
    shape and color.



We are subject to certain risks referred to in “Risk
    Factors” (Part I, Item 1A) and “Legal
    Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3) below,
    including those normally attending international and domestic
    operations, such as changes in economic or political conditions,
    currency fluctuations, exchange control regulations and the
    effect of international relations and domestic affairs of
    foreign countries on the conduct of business, legal proceedings,
    and the availability and pricing of raw materials.



No single customer represented 10% or more of our net sales or
    trade receivables at year end 2009 and 2008. However, our ten
    largest customers at year end 2009 represented approximately 13%
    of trade accounts receivable and consisted of six customers of
    our Office and Consumer Products segment and four customers of
    our Pressure-sensitive Materials segment. The financial position
    and operations of these customers are monitored on an ongoing
    basis (see “Critical Accounting Policies and
    Estimates” of Part I, Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition”). United States export
    sales are not a significant part of our business. Backlogs are
    not considered material in the industries in which we compete.





Our reporting segments are:



•Pressure-sensitive Materials•Retail Information Services•Office and Consumer Products



In addition to our reporting segments, we have other specialty
    converting businesses comprised of several businesses that
    produce specialty tapes and highly engineered labels including
    RFID inlays and labels, and other converted products.



In 2007, we completed the acquisition of Paxar Corporation
    (“Paxar”), a global leader in retail tag, ticketing,
    and branding systems. In 2008, we completed the acquisition of
    DM Label Group (“DM Label”), a manufacturer of labels,
    tags and tickets for retail and apparel applications, including
    woven labels. These operations are included in the
    Company’s Retail Information Services segment. See Retail
    Information Services Segment below for further information.



In 2009, the Pressure-sensitive Materials segment contributed
    approximately 56% of our total sales, while the Retail
    Information Services and Office and Consumer Products segments
    contributed approximately 22% and 14%, respectively, of our
    total sales.



In 2009, international operations constituted a significant
    portion of our business and represented approximately 66% of our
    sales. We expanded our operations, focusing particularly on
    Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. As of January 2,
    2010, we operated approximately 200 manufacturing and
    distribution facilities and employed approximately
    32,000 persons in over 60 countries, worldwide.



Pressure-sensitive
    Materials Segment



The Pressure-sensitive Materials segment manufactures and sells
    Fasson-, JAC-, and Avery Dennison-brand pressure-sensitive
    materials, Avery-brand graphics and graphic films, Avery
    Dennison-brand reflective products, and performance polymers.
    The business of this segment is generally not seasonal, except
    for certain outdoor graphics and reflective products and
    operations in Western Europe. Pressure-sensitive materials
    consist primarily of papers, plastic films, metal foils and
    fabrics, which are coated with Company-developed and purchased
    adhesives, and then laminated with specially coated backing
    papers and films. They are sold in roll or sheet form with
    either solid or patterned adhesive coatings, and are available
    in a wide range of face materials, sizes, thicknesses and
    adhesive properties. These materials are sold to label printers
    and converters for labeling, decorating, fastening, electronic
    data processing and special applications on a worldwide basis.



Graphic products consist of a variety of films and other
    products sold to the architectural, commercial sign, digital
    printing, and other related markets. We also sell durable cast
    and reflective films to the construction, automotive, and fleet
    transportation markets, scrim-reinforced vinyl material for
    banner sign applications, and reflective films for traffic and
    safety applications. Our graphic and reflective businesses are
    organized on a worldwide basis to serve the expanding commercial
    graphic arts market, including wide-format digital printing
    applications. We also manufacture and sell proprietary films
    that are used for outdoor, weather-resistant applications.



Performance polymer products include a range of solvent- and
    emulsion-based acrylic polymer adhesives, protective coatings
    and other polymer additives for internal use, as well as for
    sale to other companies.



In this segment, our larger competitors are Raflatac, a
    subsidiary of UPM-Kymmene; Morgan Adhesives
    (“MACtac”), a division of the Bemis Company; and 3M
    Company (for graphic and reflective products). Entry of
    competitors into the field of pressure-sensitive adhesives and
    materials may be limited by capital requirements and a need for
    technical knowledge. We believe that our relative size and scale
    of operations, our ability to serve our customers with a broad
    line of quality products and service programs, our distribution
    and brand strength, and the development and commercialization of
    new products are among the more significant factors in
    developing and maintaining our competitive position.





Retail
    Information Services Segment



The Retail Information Services segment designs, manufactures
    and sells a wide variety of price marking and brand
    identification products for retailers, apparel manufacturers,
    distributors and industrial customers on a worldwide basis. The
    business of this segment is seasonal, with higher volume
    generally in advance of the fall (back-to-school), spring, and
    holiday shipping periods.



Our brand identification products include woven and printed
    labels, graphic tags and barcode tags. Our information
    management products include price tickets, carton labels, RFID
    tags and printing applications. Services include supply chain
    and security management, and retail store efficiency. Our
    solution enabling products include barcode printers, molded
    plastic fastening and application devices, and security
    management products.



As discussed above, we completed the acquisitions of Paxar and
    DM Label in 2007 and 2008, respectively. The combination of
    these businesses into this segment increases our presence in the
    retail information and brand identification market, broadens the
    range of our product and service capabilities, and improves our
    ability to meet customer demands for product innovation. The
    integration of these acquisitions into our operations has
    resulted in significant cost synergies.



In this segment, some of our competitors are SML Group,
    Checkpoint Systems, Inc. and Shore to Shore, Inc. We believe
    that our ability to serve our customers with product innovation,
    a comprehensive brand identification and information management
    product line, our global distribution network, service, quality,
    and geographic reach are the key advantages in developing and
    maintaining our competitive position.



Office
    and Consumer Products Segment



The Office and Consumer Products segment manufactures and sells
    a wide range of Avery-brand printable media and other products.
    The business of this segment is seasonal, with higher volume
    related to the back-to-school season.



This segment’s products are generally sold through office
    products superstores, mass market distributors, wholesalers and
    dealers. We manufacture and sell a wide range of Avery-brand
    products for office, school and home uses: printable media, such
    as copier, ink-jet and laser printer labels, related computer
    software, ink-jet and laser printer card and index products; and
    organization, filing and presentation products, such as binders,
    dividers and sheet protectors. We also offer a wide range of
    other stationery products, including writing instruments,
    markers, adhesives and specialty products under brand names such
    as Avery,Marks-A-Lotand HI-LITER. The extent of product offerings varies by
    geographic market.



In this segment, our larger competitors are Acco Brands
    Corporation, Esselte Corporation and manufacturers of private
    brands. We believe that our brand strength, a large installed
    base of software that facilitates the use of many of our
    products, our ability to serve our customers with a broad line
    of quality products, and the development and commercialization
    of new products are among the more significant factors in
    developing and maintaining our competitive position.



Other
    specialty converting businesses



Other specialty converting businesses include our specialty
    tape, industrial, performance films and automotive products,
    business media, RFID and security printing businesses. These
    businesses manufacture and sell specialty tapes, highly
    engineered films, RFID inlays, pressure-sensitive postage stamps
    and other converted products. These businesses are generally not
    seasonal, except for certain automotive products due to plant
    shutdowns by automotive manufacturers.



The specialty tape business manufactures and sells single- and
    double-coated tapes and adhesive transfer tapes for use in
    non-mechanical fastening, bonding and sealing systems in various
    industries, which are sold to industrial and medical original
    equipment manufacturers, converters, and disposable diaper
    producers worldwide. These products are sold in roll form and
    are available in a wide range of face materials, sizes,
    thicknesses and adhesive properties.





Our industrial and automotive products businesses primarily
    consist of custom pressure-sensitive and heat-seal labels for
    the automotive and durable goods industries. These products are
    sold primarily to original equipment manufacturers.



Our performance films business produces a variety of decorative
    and functional films, primarily for the automotive industry,
    that are designed for injection mold applications.



Our business media business designs and markets customized
    products for printing and information workflow applications.



Our RFID business manufactures RFID inlays and labels and makes
    use of our existing distribution by marketing to our label
    converting customers.



Our security printing business manufactures and sells
    self-adhesive battery labels to a battery manufacturer, and
    self-adhesive stamps to the U.S. Postal Service.



In addition, we sell specialty print-receptive films to the
    industrial label market, metallic dispersion products to the
    packaging industry, and proprietary wood grain and other
    patterns of film laminates for housing exteriors, and interior
    and exterior automotive applications.



We compete with a number of diverse businesses. Our largest
    competitor for this group of businesses is 3M Company in the
    specialty tape business. Entry of competitors into these
    specialty converting businesses may be limited by capital and
    technical requirements. We believe that our ability to serve our
    customers with quality, cost effective products and the
    development and commercialization of new products are among the
    more significant factors in developing and maintaining our
    competitive position.



Financial
    Information about Segments



Certain financial information on our reporting segments and
    other specialty converting businesses for the three years ended
    January 2, 2010, which appear in Note 12,
    “Segment Information,” in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements of our 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders,
    are incorporated herein by reference.



Foreign
    Operations



Certain financial information about our geographic areas for the
    three years ended January 2, 2010, which appear in
    Note 12, “Segment Information,” in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements of our 2009 Annual Report to
    Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.



Research
    and Development



Many of our current products are the result of our research and
    development efforts. Our expenses for research, design and
    testing of new products and applications by our operating units
    and the Avery Research Center (the “Research Center”)
    located in Pasadena, California were $90.7 million in 2009,
    $94 million in 2008, and $95.5 million in 2007. A
    significant number of our research and development activities
    are conducted at the Research Center, which supports each of our
    operating segments.



Our operating units’ research efforts are directed
    primarily toward developing new products and operating
    techniques and improving product performance, often in close
    association with customers. The Research Center supports our
    operating units’ patent and product development work, and
    focuses on improving adhesives, materials and coating processes,
    as well as related product applications and ventures. These
    efforts often focus on projects relating to printing and coating
    technologies, as well as adhesive, release and ink chemistries.



Patents,
    Trademarks and Licenses



The loss of individual patents or licenses would not be material
    to us taken as a whole, nor to our operating segments
    individually. Our principal trademarks are Avery, Fasson, Avery
    Dennison and the Company’s symbol. These trademarks are
    significant in the markets in which our products compete.





Other
    Matters



We use various raw materials, primarily paper, plastic films and
    resins, as well as specialty chemicals purchased from various
    commercial and industrial sources, which are subject to price
    fluctuations. Although shortages could occur from time to time,
    these raw materials are generally available.



We produce a majority of our self-adhesive materials using
    water-based emulsion and hot-melt adhesive technologies.
    Emissions from these operations contain small amounts of
    volatile organic compounds, which can be regulated by agencies
    of federal, state, local and foreign governments. We continue to
    evaluate the use of alternative materials and technologies to
    minimize these emissions.



A portion of our manufacturing process for self-adhesive
    materials utilizes certain organic solvents which, unless
    controlled, would be emitted into the atmosphere. Emissions of
    these substances are regulated by agencies of federal, state,
    local and foreign governments. In connection with the
    maintenance and acquisition of certain manufacturing equipment,
    we invest in solvent capture and control units to assist in
    regulating these emissions.



We have developed adhesives and adhesive processing systems that
    minimize the use of solvents. Emulsion adhesives, hot-melt
    adhesives or solventless silicone systems have been installed in
    our facilities in Peachtree City, Georgia; Fort Wayne and
    Greenfield, Indiana; Painesville, Ohio; and Quakertown,
    Pennsylvania; as well as in other plants in the United States,
    Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, Colombia, France,
    Germany, India, Korea, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, the
    Netherlands, South Africa, Thailand and the United Kingdom.



Based on current information, we do not believe that the cost of
    complying with applicable laws regulating the discharge of
    materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
    protection of the environment, will have a material effect upon
    our capital expenditures, consolidated financial position or
    results of operations.



For information regarding our potential responsibility for
    cleanup costs at certain hazardous waste sites, see “Legal
    Proceedings” (Part I, Item 3) and
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition” (Part II,
    Item 7).



Available
    Information



Our Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are available free of charge by way of a third-party
    hyperlink service through our Web site, www.averydennison.com
    (in the “Investors” section), as soon as reasonably
    practical after electronic filing with or furnishing of such
    material to the SEC. We make available at the Web site our
    (i) Corporate Governance Guidelines, (ii) Code of
    Ethics and Business Conduct, which applies to our directors and
    employees, (iii) Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive
    Officer and Senior Financial Officers, (iv) the charters of
    the Audit, Compensation and Executive Personnel, and Nominating
    and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors, and
    (v) Audit Committee Complaint Handling Procedures. These
    materials are also available free of charge in print to
    stockholders who request them by writing to: Secretary, Avery
    Dennison Corporation, 150 North Orange Grove Boulevard,
    Pasadena, California 91103.



