10-K


d10k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the

Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2010

Commission File No. 001-14817

PACCAR Inc

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (425) 468-7400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, $1 par value

The NASDAQ Global Select Market LLC

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes

¨

No

x

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for at least the past 90 days.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes

¨

No

x

The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2010:

Common Stock,
$1 par value - $ 14.1 billion

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s classes of common stock, as of January 31,
2011:

Common Stock, $1 par value –

365,331,459

shares

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

Portions of the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting to be held on April 20, 2011 are incorporated by reference into Part III.

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS.

(a) General
Development of Business

PACCAR Inc (the Company or PACCAR), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1971, is the
successor to Pacific Car and Foundry Company which was incorporated in Washington in 1924. The Company traces its predecessors to Seattle Car Manufacturing Company formed in 1905.

(b) Financial Information About Industry Segments and Geographic Areas

Information about the Company’s industry segments and geographic areas in response to Items 101(b), (c)(1)(i), and (d) of
Regulation S-K appears on page 74 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 and is incorporated herein by reference.

(c) Narrative Description of Business

The Company has two principal industry
segments, (1) design, manufacture and distribution of light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks and related aftermarket parts and (2) finance and leasing products and services provided to customers and dealers. Light and medium-duty trucks
have a gross vehicle weight (GVW) ranging from 16,000 to 33,000 lbs (Class 5 to 7) in North America and 6 to 15 metric tonnes in Europe. Heavy duty trucks have a GVW of over 33,000 lbs (Class 8 market) in North America and over 15 metric tonnes in
Europe. The Company’s finance and leasing activities are principally related to Company products and associated equipment. Other manufactured products include industrial winches.

TRUCKS

The Company and its subsidiaries design and manufacture heavy-duty
diesel trucks which are marketed under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. These trucks, which are built in three plants in the United States, three in Europe and one each in Australia, Canada and Mexico, are used world-wide for
over-the-road and off-highway hauling of freight, petroleum, wood products, construction and other materials. The Company competes in the North American Class 5 - 7 markets primarily with conventional models. These trucks are assembled at facilities
in Ste. Therese, Canada and in Mexicali, Mexico, which are operated by the Company’s wholly owned subsidiaries located in those countries. The Company competes in the European light/medium market with DAF cab-over-engine trucks assembled in the
United Kingdom by Leyland, one of the Company’s wholly owned subsidiaries. Commercial trucks and related aftermarket parts comprise the largest segment of the Company’s business, accounting for 89.7% of total 2010 net sales and
revenues.

Substantially all trucks and related aftermarket parts are sold to independent dealers. The Kenworth and Peterbilt
nameplates are marketed and distributed by separate divisions in the U.S. and a foreign subsidiary in Canada. The Kenworth nameplate is also marketed and distributed by foreign subsidiaries in Mexico and Australia. The DAF nameplate is marketed and
distributed by a foreign subsidiary headquartered in the Netherlands. A U.S. division, PACCAR International, also markets all three nameplates outside each of their primary markets. The decision to operate as a subsidiary or as a division is
incidental to Truck segment operations and reflects legal, tax and regulatory requirements in the various countries where PACCAR operates.


The Truck segment utilizes centrally managed purchasing, information technology, technical
research and testing, treasury and finance functions. Certain manufacturing plants in North America produce trucks for more than one nameplate in common production facilities, while other plants produce trucks for only one nameplate, depending on
various factors. As a result of the close similarity of the business models employed by each nameplate, best manufacturing practices within the Company are shared on a routine basis.

The Company’s trucks have a reputation for high quality and are essentially custom products, most of which are ordered by dealers
according to customer specification. Some units are ordered by dealers for stocking to meet the needs of certain customers who require immediate delivery or for customers that require chassis to be fitted with specialized bodies. For a
significant portion of the Company’s truck operations, major components, such as engines, transmissions and axles, as well as a substantial percentage of other components, are purchased from component manufacturers pursuant to PACCAR and
customer specifications. DAF, which is more vertically integrated, manufactures its own engines and axles and a higher percentage of other components for its heavy truck models. The material costs of trucks and parts includes raw
materials, partially processed materials, such as castings, and finished components manufactured by independent suppliers. The cost of materials purchased from suppliers of raw materials, partially processed materials and finished components make up
more than 85% of the cost of new trucks and parts. The value of finished truck components manufactured by independent suppliers ranges from approximately 45% in Europe to approximately 90% in North America. In addition to purchased
materials, the Company’s cost of sales includes labor and factory overhead, vehicle and parts delivery, and warranty. Accordingly, except for certain factory overhead costs such as depreciation, property taxes and utilities, the
Company’s cost of sales are highly variable in relation to sales.

Raw materials and other components used in the
manufacture of trucks are purchased from a number of suppliers. The Company’s DAF subsidiary purchases fully assembled cabs from a competitor, Renault V.I., for its European light-duty product line pursuant to a joint product
development and long-term supply contract. Sales of trucks manufactured with these cabs amounted to approximately 3% of consolidated revenues in 2010. A short-term loss of supply, and the resulting interruption in the production of these
trucks, would not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. However, a loss of supply for an extended period of time would either require the Company to contract for an alternative source of supply or to
manufacture cabs itself. Other than these components, the Company is not limited to any single source for any significant component, although the sudden inability of a supplier to deliver components could have a temporary adverse effect on
production of certain products. No significant shortages of materials or components were experienced in 2010. Manufacturing inventory levels are based upon production schedules and orders are placed with suppliers accordingly.

Aftermarket truck parts are sold and delivered to the Company’s independent dealers through the Company’s parts distribution
network. Parts are both manufactured by the Company and purchased from various suppliers. Aftermarket parts inventory levels are determined largely by anticipated customer demand and the need for timely delivery. As a percentage of total
consolidated net sales and revenues, parts sales were 21.3% in 2010, 23.4% in 2009, and 15.1% in 2008.

Key factors
affecting Truck segment earnings include the number of new trucks and aftermarket parts sold in the markets served and the margins realized on the sales. The Company’s sales of new trucks is dependent on the size of the truck markets served and
the Company’s share of those markets. Aftermarket parts sales are influenced by the total number of the Company’s trucks in service and the average age and mileage of those trucks. Truck segment sales and margins tend to be cyclical
related to the level of overall economic activity, the


availability of capital and the amount of freight being transported. The Company’s cost per truck and parts sold consist primarily of material costs which are influenced by commodities
prices such as steel, copper, aluminum and petroleum. The Company utilizes long term supply agreements with its suppliers to reduce the variability of the unit cost of purchased materials and finished components. The Company’s spending on
research and development varies based on product development cycles and government requirements such as the periodic need to meet diesel engine emissions standards in the various markets served. The Company maintains rigorous control of Selling,
General and Administrative (SG&A) expenses and seeks to minimize such costs.

There were three other principal competitors
in the U.S. and Canada Class 8 truck market in 2010. The Company’s share of the U.S. and Canadian market was 24.1% of retail sales in 2010. In Europe there were five other principal competitors in the commercial vehicle market in 2010,
including parent companies to two competitors of the Company in the United States. In 2010, DAF had a 15.2% share of the Western and Central European heavy-duty market and a 7.7% share of the light/medium market. These markets are highly competitive
in price, quality and service, and PACCAR is not dependent on any single customer for its sales. There are no significant seasonal variations in sales.

The Peterbilt, Kenworth, and DAF nameplates are recognized internationally and play an important role in the marketing of the Company’s truck products. The Company engages in a continuous program of
trademark and trade name protection in all marketing areas of the world.

The Company’s truck products are subject to
environmental noise and emission regulations and competing manufacturers are subject to the same regulations. The Company believes the cost of complying with noise and emission regulations will not be detrimental to its business.

The Company had a total production backlog of $3.5 billion at the end of 2010. Within this backlog, orders scheduled for delivery within
three months (90 days) are considered to be firm. The 90-day backlog approximated $2.0 billion at December 31, 2010, $1.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and $0.8 billion at December 31, 2008. Production of the year-end 2010
backlog is expected to be substantially completed during 2011.

OTHER BUSINESS

The Truck and Other businesses include a division of the Company which manufactures industrial winches in two U.S. plants and markets them
under the Braden, Carco, and Gearmatic nameplates. The markets for these products are highly competitive and the Company competes with a number of well established firms. Sales of industrial winches were approximately 1% of net sales and
revenues in 2010, 2009, and 2008.

The Braden, Carco, and Gearmatic trademarks and trade names are recognized
internationally and play an important role in the marketing of those products.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

In North America, Australia and 16 European countries, the Company provides financing and leasing arrangements, principally for its
manufactured trucks, through wholly owned finance companies operating under the PACCAR Financial trade name. They provide inventory financing for independent dealers selling PACCAR products, and retail loan and lease financing for new and used
trucks and other transportation equipment sold principally by its independent dealers. Receivables are secured by the products financed or leased. The terms of loan and lease contracts vary with the type and usage of equipment but generally range
from three to five


years. Payment is required on dealer inventory financing when the floored truck is sold to a customer or upon maturity of the flooring loan whichever comes first. Dealer inventory loans generally
mature within one to two years.

The Company also conducts full service leasing operations through wholly owned subsidiaries
in North America and Germany under the PacLease trade name. Selected dealers in North America are franchised to provide full service leasing. The Company provides its franchisees equipment financing and administrative support. The Company also
operates full service lease outlets on its own behalf.

The Company funds its financing activities primarily through
commercial paper, bank loans and by issuing medium-term debt through public debt markets. The Company attempts to match the maturity and interest rate characteristics of the debt with the maturity and interest rate characteristics of loans and
leases.

Key factors in determining the earnings of the Financial Services segment include the volume of new loans and leases,
the yield earned on the loans and leases, the costs of funding investments in loans and leases and the ability to collect the amounts owed to the Company. New loan and lease volume is dependent on the volume of new trucks sold by the Company and the
share of those truck sales that are financed by the Financial Services segment. Finance market share is influenced by the extent of competition in the financing market. The Company’s competitors primarily include banks and independent finance
and leasing companies.

The revenue earned on loans and leases depends on market interest and lease rates and the ability of
the Company to differentiate itself from the competition by superior industry knowledge and customer service. Dealer inventory loans have variable rates with rates reset monthly based on an index pertaining to the applicable local market. Retail
loan and lease contracts normally have fixed rates over the contract term. The Company obtains funds either through fixed rate borrowings or through variable rate borrowings which have been effectively converted to fixed rate through the use of
interest rate contracts. This enables the Company to obtain a stable spread between the cost of borrowing and the yield on fixed rate contracts over the contract term. Included in Financial Services cost of revenues is depreciation on equipment on
operating leases. The amount of depreciation on operating leases principally depends on the amount of leased equipment, and the average term of the lease which ranges from two to four years and residual values which generally range from 30 to 50%.
The margin earned is the difference between the revenues on loan and lease contracts and the direct costs of operation including interest and depreciation.

The Company incurs credit losses when customers are unable to pay the full amounts due under loan and finance lease contracts. The Company takes a conservative approach to underwriting new retail business
in order to minimize credit losses and the related provision for losses. Retail loan and lease customers consist of medium and large commercial trucking companies, independent owner operators and other businesses that use trucks in their operations.
The ability of these customers to pay their obligations to the Company depends on the state of the general economy, the extent of freight demand, freight rates and the cost of fuel. The Company limits its exposure to any one customer, with no one
customer amounting to more than 2% of the aggregate portfolio. The Company generally requires a down payment and secures its interest in the underlying truck equipment collateral and may include other collateral or personal guarantees. In the event
of default, the Company will repossess the vehicle and sell it in the open market primarily through its dealer network. The Company will take legal means to recover any shortfall between the amounts owed and the amounts recovered from sale of the
collateral. The amount of credit losses depends on the rate of default on loans and finance leases and, in the event of repossession, the ability to recover the amount owed from sale of the collateral which is affected by used truck


prices. The Company’s experience over the last fifty years financing truck sales has been that periods of economic weakness result in higher past dues and increased rates of repossession.
Used truck prices tend to fall during periods of economic weakness. As a result, credit losses tend to increase during those periods. The Company provides an allowance for credit losses based on specifically identified customer risks and an analysis
of estimated losses inherent in the portfolio, considering the amount of past due accounts, the trends of used truck prices and the economic climate in each of its markets.

Financial Services selling general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs associated with originating and servicing the Company’s loan and lease portfolios. These cost vary
somewhat depending on overall levels of business activity, but given the ongoing nature of servicing activities tend be relatively stable.

PATENTS

The Company
owns numerous patents which relate to all product lines. Although these patents are considered important to the overall conduct of the Company’s business, no patent or group of patents is considered essential to a material part of the
Company’s business.

REGULATION

As a manufacturer of highway trucks, the Company is subject to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards promulgated by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration as well as environmental laws and regulations in the United States, and is subject to similar regulations in Canada, Mexico, Australia and Europe. In addition, the Company is subject to certain other licensing requirements
to do business in the United States and Europe. The Company believes it is in compliance with laws and regulations applicable to safety standards, the environment and other licensing requirements in all countries where it has operations.

Information regarding the effects that compliance with international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the environment have
on the Company’s capital and operating expenditures and the Company’s involvement in environmental cleanup activities is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the
Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Items 7 and 8, respectively.

EMPLOYEES

On December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately 17,700 employees.

OTHER DISCLOSURES

The Company’s filings on Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K
and any amendments to those reports can be found on the Company’s website www.paccar.com free of charge as soon as practicable after the report is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report.

ITEM 1A.

RISK FACTORS.

The
following are significant risks which could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.

Business
and Industry Risks

Commercial truck market demand is variable.

Demand for commercial vehicles depends on economic
and other conditions in a given market and the introduction of new vehicles and technologies. The yearly demand for commercial vehicles may increase or decrease more than overall gross domestic product in markets the Company serves which are
principally North America


and Western Europe. Demand may also be affected by factors impacting new truck prices such as costs of raw materials and components and cost of compliance with governmental regulations (including
tariffs, engine emissions regulations, import regulations and taxes).

The Financial Services industry is highly
competitive.

The Company competes with banks, other commercial finance companies and financial services firms which may have lower costs of borrowing, higher leverage or market share goals that result in a willingness to offer lower
interest rates, which may lead to decreased margins, lower market share or both. A decline in the Company’s commercial truck unit sales, an increase in residual value risk due to lower used truck pricing and increased funding
costs are also factors which may negatively affect the Company’s financial services operations.

The Financial
Services segment is subject to credit risk.

The Financial Services segment is exposed to the risk of loss arising from the failure of a customer, dealer or counterparty to meet the terms of the loans, leases and derivative contracts with the
Company. Although the financial assets of the Financial Services segment are secured by underlying equipment collateral, in the event a customer cannot meet its obligations to the Company, there is a risk that the value of the underlying collateral
will not be sufficient to recover the amounts owed to the Company resulting in credit losses.

The Financial Services
segment is subject to liquidity risk

. The global economy is recovering from a recession and financial markets liquidity has improved. The Company’s Financial Services segment has been able to issue commercial paper and medium-term notes and
obtain bank debt. If commercial paper, medium-term notes and bank debt do not provide the necessary liquidity in the future, the Financial Services segment may limit its financing of retail and wholesale assets. This may have a negative effect
on the Company’s Financial Services segment results.

Political, Regulatory and Economic Risks

The Company’s operations could be subject to currency and interest rate fluctuations.

The Company’s consolidated
financial statements, which are presented in U.S. dollars, are affected by foreign currency exchange fluctuations through both translation and transaction risk. The Company uses certain derivative financial instruments and localized production of
its products to reduce, but not eliminate, the effects of interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.

The Company may be adversely affected by political instabilities, fuel shortages or interruptions in transportation systems, natural
calamities, wars, terrorism and labor strikes.

The Company is subject to various risks associated with conducting business worldwide.

ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

The Company
received a comment letter from the staff of the SEC dated June 9, 2010 regarding a review of PACCAR’s December 31, 2009 Form 10-K, the March 31, 2010 Form 10-Q and the Schedule 14A filed March 10, 2010. The Company responded
to that letter as well as a follow-up letter dated September 7, 2010. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company is preparing a response to a follow-up letter dated February 7, 2011 relating primarily to the level
of detail of certain Financial Services disclosures.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES.

The Company
and its subsidiaries own and operate manufacturing plants in five U.S. states, three countries in Europe, and one each in Australia, Canada and Mexico. The Company also has fourteen parts distribution centers, sales and service offices, and finance
and administrative offices which are operated in owned or leased premises in these and other countries. Facilities for product testing and research and development are located in Washington state and the Netherlands. The Company’s
corporate headquarters is located in owned premises in Bellevue, Washington. The Company considers all of the properties used by its businesses to be suitable for their intended purposes.


The Company continuously invests in facilities, equipment and processes to provide
manufacturing and warehouse capacity to meet its customers’ needs.

The following summarizes the number of the
Company’s manufacturing plants by geographical location within indicated industry segments:

U.S.

Canada

Australia

Mexico

Europe

Truck






Other


—

—

—

—

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

The
Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of business. Management believes that the disposition of such lawsuits will not materially affect the Company’s business or financial condition.

In January 2011, the European Union (EU) Competition Commission commenced an investigation of all major European commercial
vehicle manufacturers, including subsidiaries of the Company, concerning whether such companies participated in agreements or concerted practices to coordinate their commercial policy in the EU. The Company’s subsidiaries are cooperating
fully with the EU Competition Commission.

On October 28, 2010, a National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) administrative
law judge issued a decision that since the Company did not provide certain information to the union representing employees at Peterbilt’s truck assembly plant in Madison, Tennessee, during collective bargaining
negotiations in 2008, the employer-directed work stoppage was not in conformity with certain provisions of the National Labor Relations Act from July 16, 2008 and that the Company should reimburse approximately 300 plant employees,
with interest, for wage and benefit losses incurred during the work stoppage which ended on April 6, 2009. The Company disagrees with this decision and filed its exceptions with the NLRB. The Company believes that resolution
of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on its results.

In September 2010, the United Kingdom Office of Fair
Trading (OFT) notified all major commercial vehicle manufacturers operating in the U.K., that it had commenced an investigation into whether such manufacturers agreed to set prices or limit supply of their commercial vehicles and spare parts. The
Company’s U.K. subsidiaries are cooperating fully with the OFT.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

(a)

Market Information, Holders, Dividends, Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans and Performance Graph

Data regarding Market Information, Holders and Dividends are included in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 2010, under the caption “Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends” and are incorporated herein by reference.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans.

The following
table provides information as of December 31, 2010 regarding compensation plans under which PACCAR equity securities are authorized for issuance.

Plan Category

Number of

Securities to 
be

Issued on Exercise

of Outstanding

Options 
and

Other Rights

Weighted-average

Exercise Price 
of

Outstanding Options

Securities

Available for

Future 
Grant

(Excluding Shares

Reflected in

Column
(1))

Stock compensation

(1

)

(2

)

(3

)

plans approved by stockholders

5,651,744

$

32.18

18,519,908

All stock compensation
plans have been approved by the stockholders.

The number of securities to be issued includes those issuable under the PACCAR
Inc Long Term Incentive Plan (LTI Plan) and the Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (RSDC Plan). Securities to be issued include 369,437 shares that represent deferred cash awards payable in stock. The
weighted-average exercise price does not include the securities that represent deferred cash awards.

Securities available
for future grant are authorized under the following two plans: (i) 17,566,297 shares under the LTI Plan, and (ii) 953,611 shares under the RSDC Plan.

Data regarding the Performance Graph are included in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, under the caption “Stockholder Return Performance Graph” and are
incorporated herein by reference.

(b)

Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities

Not applicable

(c)

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

There were no repurchases of PACCAR’s common stock in the 4

th

Quarter of 2010. On October 29, 2007, the Board of Directors
approved a plan to repurchase up to $300 million of PACCAR’s outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2010, $292 million of shares have been repurchased under this plan. On July 8, 2008, PACCAR’s Board of Directors approved a
new plan to repurchase up to an additional $300 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock. No repurchases were made under this plan.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

Information in response to Item 301 of Regulation S-K appears in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 2010 under the caption “Selected Financial Data” and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Information in response to Item 303 of Regulation S-K appears in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 2010 under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Information in response to Item 305 of Regulation S-K appears in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 under the caption “Market Risks and Derivative
Instruments” and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

The following consolidated financial statements of the registrant, included in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, are incorporated herein by reference:

Consolidated Statements of Income

— Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008

Consolidated Balance Sheets

— December 31, 2010 and 2009

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

—
Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

— Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

— Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009
and 2008

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

— December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008

Information in response to Item 302(A) of
Regulation S-K appears in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 under the caption “Quarterly Results (Unaudited)” and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

The registrant has not had any disagreements with its independent auditors on accounting or financial disclosure matters.


ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures.

The Company’s management, with the participation of the Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial
Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Principal
Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.

Management’s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting on page 76 and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Company’s Internal Control over Financial Reporting on page 77 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the
year ended December 31, 2010, are incorporated herein by reference.

There have been no changes in the Company’s
internal controls over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2010 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION.

Not
applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.

Item 401(a), (d), and (e) of Regulation S-K:

The following information
is included in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 20, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference:

•

Identification of directors, family relationships, and business experience is included under the caption “ITEM 1: ELECTION OF DIRECTORS.”

Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K:

Executive Officers of the registrant as of March 1, 2011:


Officers are elected annually but may be appointed or removed on interim dates.

Item 405 of Regulation S-K:

The information required by this item is included in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 20, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 406 of Regulation S-K:

The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to the registrant’s senior financial officers including the Chief Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer. The Company,
in accordance with Item 406 of Regulation S-K, has posted this Code of Ethics on its website at www.paccar.com. The Company intends to disclose on its website any amendments to, or waivers from, its Code of Ethics that are required to
be publicly disclosed pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report.

Item 407(d)(4) and 407(d)(5) of Regulation S-K:

The following information is included in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 20, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference:

•

Identification of the audit committee is included under the caption “THE AUDIT COMMITTEE.”

•

Identification of audit committee financial experts is included under the caption “AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT.”


ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The following information is included in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 20, 2011 and is
incorporated herein by reference:

•

Compensation of Directors is included under the caption “COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS.”

•

Compensation of Executive Officers and Related Matters is included under the caption “COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS.”

•

Compensation Committee Report is under the caption “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT.”

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

Stock ownership information is included under the captions “STOCK OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS” and “STOCK
OWNERSHIP OF OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS” in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 20, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Information regarding equity compensation plans required by Regulation S-K Item 201(d) is provided in Item 5 of this

Form 10-K.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.

No transactions with management and others as defined by Item 404 of Regulation S-K occurred in 2010.

Information concerning director independence is included under the caption “BOARD GOVERNANCE” in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 20, 2011 and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES.

Principal accountant fees and services information is included under the caption “INDEPENDENT AUDITORS” in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 20, 2011 and is
incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.






SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.


ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ITEM 15(c)

CERTAIN EXHIBITS

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010

PACCAR Inc

BELLEVUE, WASHINGTON