ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.

We have
described many of the trends and other factors that we believe could impact our business and future results in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. In
addition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to, and could be materially adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which
could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or our anticipated future results.

We depend on U.S. Government
customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in U.S. Government funding or a change in U.S. Government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.

We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate
termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.

Over its lifetime, a U.S. Government program may be implemented by the award of many different individual
contracts and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated in connection with major procurements, Congress generally
appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. Procurement funds are typically made available for obligation over the course of one to three years. Consequently, programs often receive only partial funding initially, and additional funds are obligated
only as Congress authorizes further appropriations. The termination of funding for a U.S. Government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which could have an adverse impact on our
operations. In addition, the termination of a program or the failure to commit additional funds to a program that already has been started could result in lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business.







Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to oversight audits by
U.S. Government representatives. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. We
have recorded contract revenues based on costs we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments, and we may be required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon completion and
final negotiation of audits. Negative audit findings could also result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of
time.

In addition, U.S. Government contracts generally contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part,
without prior notice at the U.S. Government’s convenience upon the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. We can give no assurance that one or more of our U.S. Government contracts will not be
terminated under these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or backlog lost as a result of any termination of our U.S. Government contracts. Because a significant
portion of our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under our U.S. Government contracts, the loss of one or more large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows.

Our government business also is subject to specific procurement regulations and a variety of socio-economic and
other requirements. These requirements, although customary in U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect
on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or debarment from
U.S. Government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various laws, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. Government security regulations,
employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper recording of costs and foreign corruption. The termination of a U.S. Government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts would have an adverse
impact on our operations and could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for future U.S. Government contracts.

We
could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.



ŸDisrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our customers;







ŸResult in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise
valuable information of ours or our customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes;

ŸCompromise national security and other sensitive government functions;

ŸRequire significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result;

ŸSubject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and

ŸDamage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the U.S. Government) and the public generally.

Any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows.

We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in
inflation.

We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally,
including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

We are dependent on sales to customers outside the U.S. The
percentage of our total revenue represented by revenue from products and services exported from the U.S. (including foreign military sales) or manufactured or rendered abroad was 30 percent in fiscal 2014, 26 percent in fiscal 2013 and
24 percent in fiscal 2012. Approximately 28 percent of our international business in fiscal 2014 was transacted in local currency. Losses resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect our results. We expect that
international revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. Also, a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and an increasing portion of our business activity is being conducted in, less-developed
countries. We are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including:



ŸCurrency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and currency revaluations;

ŸThe laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of
U.S. companies abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”);

ŸChanges in regulatory requirements, including business or operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other
trade restrictions;

ŸUncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees;

ŸThe complexity and necessity of using, and disruptions involving our, international dealers, distributors, sales representatives and consultants;

ŸThe difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed organization and culturally diverse workforces, including compliance with local laws and
practices;

ŸDifficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws;

ŸImport and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in export regulations;

ŸUncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for onerous contract
clauses; and







ŸRapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or
U.S. anti-boycott legislation.

Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct
of our employees, agents or business partners.

We have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures
designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials (such as
the FCPA), and to detect any such reckless or criminal acts committed. We cannot ensure, however, that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or detect all such reckless or criminal acts. If not prevented, such reckless or criminal acts
could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation.

We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales
to certain foreign governments.

We must first obtain export and other licenses and authorizations from various
U.S. Government agencies before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the U.S. For example, the U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least 15 to 60 days, depending on the size and location
of the proposed sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful
in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the U.S. could negatively impact our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The continued effects of the general weakness in the global economy and the
U.S. Government’s budget deficits and national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The economies of the U.S. and many foreign countries in which we do business continue to show weakness or limited improvement. We are
unable to predict the impact, severity and duration of these economic events. The continued effects of these economic events and the U.S. Government’s budget deficits and national debt and sequestration could have an adverse impact on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways. Possible effects of these economic conditions include the following:



ŸThe U.S. Government could reduce or delay its spending on, or reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in which we
participate;

ŸThe U.S. Government may be unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on September 30 and thus would be required
either to shut down or be funded pursuant to a “continuing resolution” that authorizes agencies of the U.S. Government to continue operations but does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which could result in reduced or
delayed orders or payments for products and services we provide. If the U.S. Government budget process results in a shutdown or prolonged operation under a continuing resolution, it may decrease our revenue, profitability or cash flows or otherwise
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations;

ŸU.S. Government spending could be impacted by sequestration or alternate arrangements, which increases the uncertainty as to, and the difficulty in
predicting, U.S. Government spending priorities and levels;

ŸWe may experience declines in revenue, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or other factors caused by the
economic problems of our customers and prospective customers (including U.S. Federal, state and local governments);

ŸWe may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and
subcontractors; and

ŸWe may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit facilities or in the debt
markets, or otherwise with financing our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or financing activities.

Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our
current and future markets.

Both our commercial and government businesses are characterized by rapidly changing
technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:



ŸIdentify emerging technological trends in our current and target markets;







ŸDevelop and maintain competitive products, systems, services and technologies;

ŸEnhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or other features that differentiate our products, systems, services and technologies
from those of our competitors; and

ŸDevelop, manufacture and bring to market cost-effective offerings quickly.

We participate in markets that are often
subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures.

We participate in U.S. and international markets that are subject to uncertain economic conditions. In particular, U.S. Government spending priorities and levels remain uncertain and difficult to
predict and are affected by numerous factors, including sequestration and whether it will be superseded by alternate arrangements. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in which we participate. Because all
components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent on estimates of growth in the markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures even more difficult. As a result, we may
make significant investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated benefits.

We cannot predict the consequences of future
geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability.

Ongoing instability and current conflicts in global markets, including in the Middle East and Asia, and the potential for other conflicts and future terrorist activities and other recent geo-political
events throughout the world have created economic and political uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and profitability. These matters cause uncertainty in the world’s financial and insurance
markets and may significantly increase the political, economic and social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate. These matters also may cause our insurance coverages and performance bonds to increase in cost, or in some cases, to
be unavailable altogether.

We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant
risks and uncertainties.

Strategic acquisitions and divestitures that we have made in the past, and may continue to
make, present significant risks and uncertainties, which include:



ŸDifficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation
issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks;

ŸDifficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets
in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration;

ŸDifficulty in consolidating and rationalizing IT infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating
software code;

ŸChallenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions;

ŸRisk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be
successful in those markets;

ŸRisk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any
indemnifying parties;

ŸPotential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested;







ŸRisk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions or within expected timeframes; and

ŸRisk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations.

Disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts
or services, could cause our products or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.

Third parties have claimed in the past and may
claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights.

The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

From time to time, we are defendants
in a number of litigation matters and are involved in a number of arbitrations. These actions may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the results of these
or new matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity.

We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. A significant portion of our
business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense, technology and communications systems and products. New technologies associated with these systems and products may be untested or unproven. Components of certain of the
defense systems and products we develop are inherently dangerous. Failures of satellites, missile systems, air traffic control systems, homeland security applications and aircraft have the potential to cause loss of life and extensive property
damage. In most circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the







U.S. Government. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear
substantial costs from an accident or incident. It also is not possible for us to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Substantial claims resulting from an incident in excess of U.S. Government indemnity
and our insurance coverage would harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our standing with our customers and the
public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future.

Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a number of factors including:



ŸThe jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;

ŸAdjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;

ŸIncreases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of
goodwill or other long-term assets in connection with acquisitions;

ŸChanges in available tax credits;

ŸChanges in share-based compensation expense;

ŸChanges in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;

ŸChanges in domestic or international tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and

ŸThe resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities.

Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact our results of operations for future periods.

We have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other
significant disruption.

Our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our Government Communications Systems
segment are located in Florida and significant operations of our Integrated Network Solutions segment are located in Houston, Texas, which areas are subject to the risk of major hurricanes. Our worldwide operations and operations of our suppliers
could be subject to natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires, water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages
and blackouts, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and manmade disasters or disruptions. In the event of such a natural disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the
operations of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers; destruction of facilities; and/or loss of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Changes in the regulatory framework under which our managed satellite and terrestrial
communications solutions operations are operated could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our
managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, and any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

In our managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions operations, we compete for satellite bandwidth with other commercial
entities, such as other satellite communications services providers and broadcasting companies, and with governmental entities, such as the military. In certain markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be







limited and/or pricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive pressure. In such cases, we may be unable to secure sufficient bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite
communications services, either at favorable rates or at all. This inability could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and
write-downs that would adversely affect our results of operations.

Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies

Note 3: Discontinued Operations

We must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could
seriously harm us.

Our business has a continuing need to attract and retain significant numbers of skilled personnel,
including personnel holding security clearances, to support our growth and to replace individuals whose employment has terminated due to retirement or for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, as has
been the case from time to time in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts if our needs for such
employees were unmet.



