ITEM 1A.RISK
    FACTORS.



We have described many of the trends and other factors that we
    believe could impact our business and future results in
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this
    Report. In addition, our business, operating results, cash flows
    and financial condition are subject to, and could be materially
    adversely affected by, various risks and uncertainties,
    including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of
    which could cause our actual results to vary materially from
    recent results or our anticipated future results.



We
    depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of
    our revenue, and the loss of this relationship or a shift in
    U.S. Government funding priorities could have adverse
    consequences on our future business.



We
    depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often
    are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and
    heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to
    fund one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact
    on our business.

Over its lifetime, a U.S. Government program may be
    implemented by the award of many different individual contracts
    and subcontracts. The funding of U.S. Government programs
    is subject to Congressional appropriations.





Although multi-year contracts may be authorized and appropriated
    in connection with major procurements, Congress generally
    appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis. Procurement funds are
    typically made available for obligation over the course of three
    years. Consequently, programs often receive only partial funding
    initially, and additional funds are obligated only as Congress
    authorizes further appropriations. The termination of funding
    for a U.S. Government program would result in a loss of
    anticipated future revenue attributable to that program, which
    could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, the
    termination of a program or the failure to commit additional
    funds to a program that already has been started could result in
    lost revenue and increase our overall costs of doing business.



Generally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    oversight audits by U.S. Government representatives. Such
    audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any
    costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract
    will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must
    be refunded. We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs
    we expect to realize upon final audit. However, we do not know
    the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and we may be
    required to materially reduce our revenues or profits upon
    completion and final negotiation of audits. Negative audit
    findings could also result in termination of a contract,
    forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
    suspension or prohibition from doing business with the
    U.S. Government.



In addition, U.S. Government contracts generally contain
    provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, without
    prior notice at the U.S. Government’s convenience upon
    the payment only for work done and commitments made at the time
    of termination. We can give no assurance that one or more of our
    U.S. Government contracts will not be terminated under
    these circumstances. Also, we can give no assurance that we
    would be able to procure new contracts to offset the revenue or
    backlog lost as a result of any termination of our
    U.S. Government contracts. Because a significant portion of
    our revenue is dependent on our performance and payment under
    our U.S. Government contracts, the loss of one or more
    large contracts could have a material adverse impact on our
    financial condition.



Our government business also is subject to specific procurement
    regulations and a variety of socio-economic and other
    requirements. These requirements, although customary in
    U.S. Government contracts, increase our performance and
    compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future,
    thereby reducing our margins, which could have an adverse effect
    on our financial condition. Failure to comply with these
    regulations and requirements could lead to fines, penalties,
    repayments, or compensatory or treble damages, or suspension or
    debarment from U.S. Government contracting or
    subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for
    debarment are violations of various laws, including those
    related to procurement integrity, export control,
    U.S. Government security regulations, employment practices,
    protection of the environment, accuracy of records, proper
    recording of costs and foreign corruption. The termination of a
    U.S. Government contract or relationship as a result of any
    of these acts would have an adverse impact on our operations and
    could have an adverse effect on our standing and eligibility for
    future U.S. Government contracts.



We
    enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses
    in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in
    inflation.





We
    could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber
    attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant
    disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we
    operate for certain of our customers.

e-mails,

day-to-day



•Disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and
    therefore our operationsand/orthose
    of certain of our customers;•Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss,
    theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential,
    sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or our
    customers, including trade secrets, which others could use to
    compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise
    harmful purposes and outcomes;•Compromise national security and other sensitive government
    functions;•Require significant management attention and resources to remedy
    the damages that result;•Subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits,
    penalties or termination; or•Damage our reputation among our customers (particularly agencies
    of the U.S. Government and potential customers of Cyber
    Integrated Solutions) and the public generally,



Any or all of which could have a negative impact on our results
    of operations, financial condition and cash flows.



We
    derive a significant portion of our revenue from international
    operations and are subject to the risks of doing business
    internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates.

We are dependent on sales to customers outside the United
    States. In fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, revenue
    from products and services exported from the U.S. or
    manufactured or rendered abroad was 22 percent,
    14 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of our total
    revenue. Approximately 33 percent of our international
    business in fiscal 2011 was transacted in local currency. Losses
    resulting from currency rate fluctuations can adversely affect
    our results. We expect that international revenue will continue
    to account for a significant portion of our total revenue. Also,
    a significant portion of our international revenue is from, and
    an increasing portion of our business activity is being
    conducted in, less-developed countries. We are subject to risks
    of doing business internationally, including:



•Currency exchange controls, fluctuations of currency and
    currency revaluations;•The laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments
    relating to investments and operations, as well as
    U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies
    abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;





•Changes in regulatory requirements, including business or
    operating license requirements, imposition of tariffs or
    embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions;•Uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of
    funding, credit or guarantees;•The complexity and necessity of using international dealers,
    distributors, sales representatives and consultants;•The difficulties of managing a geographically dispersed
    organization and culturally diverse workforces, including
    compliance with local laws and practices;•Difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held
    abroad in a tax-efficient manner and changes in tax laws;•Import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as
    well as unforeseen changes in export regulations;•Uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and
    intellectual property rights and occasional requirements for
    onerous contract clauses; and•Rapid changes in government, economic and political policies,
    political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of
    international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation.



Our
    reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the
    improper conduct of our employees, agents or business
    partners.

We have implemented compliance controls, policies and procedures
    designed to prevent reckless or criminal acts from being
    committed by our employees, agents or business partners that
    would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate,
    including laws governing payments to government officials (such
    as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), and to detect any such
    reckless or criminal acts committed. We cannot ensure, however,
    that our controls, policies and procedures will prevent or
    detect all such reckless or criminal acts. If not prevented,
    such reckless or criminal acts could subject us to civil or
    criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties
    and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to
    conduct business, our results of operations and our reputation.



We may
    not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to
    conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent
    proposed sales to certain foreign governments.

We must first obtain export and other licenses and
    authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before
    we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies
    outside of the United States. For example, the
    U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least15-60 days,depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to
    authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to
    foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action
    to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we
    will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary
    licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or
    delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability
    to sell products or technologies outside of the United States
    could negatively impact our results of operations and financial
    condition.



The
    continued effects of the general downturn in the global economy
    and the U.S. Government’s budget deficits and national debt
    could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results
    or financial condition.

There has been a general downturn in the global economy and the
    economies of the United States and many foreign countries in
    which we do business continue to show weakness. Although
    governments worldwide, including the U.S. Government, have
    initiated sweeping economic plans, we are unable to predict the
    impact, severity and duration of these economic events. The
    continuing effects of the general downturn in the global economy
    and the U.S. Government’s budget deficits and national
    debt could have an adverse impact on our business, operations
    results or financial condition in a number of ways. Possible
    effects of these economic conditions include the following:



•The U.S. Government could reduce or delay its spending on,
    reprioritize its spending away from, the government programs in
    which we participate;•The U.S. Government may be unable complete its budget
    process before the end of its fiscal year on September 30 and
    thus would be required either to shut down or to be funded
    pursuant to a “continuing resolution” that authorizes
    agencies of the U.S. Government to continue operations but
    does not authorize new spending initiatives, either of which
    could result in reduced or delayed orders or payments for
    products and services we provide. While this historically has
    not had a material adverse impact on our business, operating
    results or financial condition, if the U.S. Government
    budget process results in a shutdown or prolonged operation
    under a continuing resolution, it may decrease our revenues,
    profitability or cash flows or otherwise have a material adverse
    effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.





•We may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash
    flows as a result of reduced or delayed orders or payments or
    other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers
    and prospective customers (including U.S. Federal, state
    and local governments);•We may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other
    problems associated with financial constraints faced by our
    suppliers and subcontractors; and•We may incur increased costs or experience difficulty with
    future borrowings under our commercial paper program or credit
    facilities or in the debt markets, or otherwise with financing
    our operating, investing (including any future acquisitions) or
    financing activities.



Our
    future success will depend on our ability to develop new
    products, services and technologies that achieve market
    acceptance in our current and future markets.

Both our commercial and government businesses are characterized
    by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry
    standards. Accordingly, our performance depends on a number of
    factors, including our ability to:



•Identify emerging technological trends in our current and target
    markets;•Develop and maintain competitive products and services;•Enhance our offerings by adding innovative hardware, software or
    other features that differentiate our products and services from
    those of our competitors; and•Develop, manufacture and bring cost-effective offerings to
    market quickly.





We
    participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain
    economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth
    in our markets and, as a result, future income and
    expenditures.

We participate in U.S. and international markets that are
    subject to uncertain economic conditions. As a result, it is
    difficult to estimate the level of growth in the markets in
    which we participate. Because all components of our budgeting
    and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth in the
    markets we serve, the uncertainty renders estimates of or
    guidance relating to future revenue, income and expenditures
    even more difficult. As a result, we may make significant
    investments and expenditures but never realize the anticipated
    benefits.



We
    cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events,
    but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate,
    our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our
    profitability.

Ongoing instability and current conflicts in the Middle East and
    Asia and the potential for further conflicts and future
    terrorist activities and other recent geo-political events
    throughout the world have created economic and political
    uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, operations and profitability. These matters cause
    uncertainty in the world’s financial and insurance markets
    and may increase significantly the political, economic and
    social instability in the geographic areas in which we operate.
    These matters also have caused the premiums charged for our
    insurance coverages to increase and may cause further increases
    or some coverages to be unavailable altogether.





We
    have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions that
    involve significant risks and uncertainties.

We have made, and we may continue to make, strategic
    acquisitions that involve significant risks and uncertainties.
    These risks and uncertainties include:



•Difficulty in identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions,
    including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or
    fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other
    acquisition risks;•Difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and
    operations, including combining product and service offerings,
    and in entering into new markets in which we are not
    experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while
    maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the
    risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other
    problems associated with integration;•Difficulty in consolidating and rationalizing IT infrastructure,
    which may include multiple legacy systems from various
    acquisitions and integrating software code;•Challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and
    other benefits expected from acquisitions;•Risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the
    strategic acquisitions do not prove to be those needed to be
    successful in those markets;•Risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the
    limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the
    financial resources of any indemnifying parties;•Potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired
    businesses; and•Risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our
    existing operations.



Disputes
    with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors
    to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our
    components, parts or services, could cause our products or
    services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or
    unsatisfactory manner.



Third
    parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future
    that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their
    intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe
    upon our intellectual property rights.





The
    outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is
    unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations.

We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and, from
    time to time, are involved in a number of arbitrations. These
    actions may divert financial and management resources that would
    otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can
    be given that the results of these or new matters will be
    favorable to us. An adverse resolution of lawsuits or
    arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.



We
    face certain significant risk exposures and potential
    liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or
    indemnity.



Changes
    in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our
    results of operations.

Our future effective tax rate may be adversely affected by a
    number of factors including:



•The jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned
    and taxed;•Adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax
    returns;•Increases in expenses not fully deductible for tax purposes,
    including write-offs of acquired in-process research and
    development and impairment of goodwill in connection with
    acquisitions;•Changes in available tax credits;•Changes in share-based compensation expense;•Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities;•Changes in domestic or international tax laws or the
    interpretation of such tax laws; and•The resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various
    tax authorities.



Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could
    adversely impact our results of operations for future periods.



We
    have significant operations in Florida and other locations that
    could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a
    natural disaster or other significant disruption.

Our corporate headquarters and significant operations of our
    Government Communications Systems segment are located in
    Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred. Our worldwide
    operations and operations of our suppliers could be subject to
    natural disasters or other significant disruptions, including
    hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes, fires,
    water shortages, other extreme weather conditions, medical
    epidemics, acts of terrorism, power shortages and blackouts,
    telecommunications failures, cyber attacks and other natural and
    manmade disasters or disruptions. In the event of such a natural
    disaster or other disruption, we could experience disruptions or
    interruptions to our operations or the operations of our
    suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers or customers;
    destruction of facilities;and/orloss
    of life, all of which could materially increase our costs and
    expenses and materially adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.



Changes
    in the regulatory framework under which our managed satellite
    and terrestrial communications solutions operations are operated
    could adversely affect our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.

Our domestic satellite and terrestrial communications solutions
    are currently provided on a private carrier basis and are
    therefore subject to lighter regulation by the Federal
    Communications Commission (the “FCC”) and other
    Federal, state and local agencies than if provided on a common
    carrier basis. Our international satellite and





terrestrial communications solutions operations are regulated by
    governments of various countries other than the United States
    and by other international authorities. The regulatory regimes
    applicable to our international satellite and terrestrial
    communications solutions operations frequently require that we
    obtain and maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our
    operations in accordance with prescribed standards. Compliance
    with such requirements may inhibit our ability to quickly expand
    our operations into new countries, including in circumstances in
    which such expansion is required in order to provide
    uninterrupted service to existing customers with mobile
    operations as they move to new locations on short notice.
    Failure to comply with such regulatory requirements could
    subject us to various penalties or sanctions. The adoption of
    new laws or regulations, changes to the existing domestic or
    international regulatory framework, new interpretations of the
    laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material
    limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially
    harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.



We
    rely on third parties to provide satellite bandwidth for our
    managed satellite and terrestrial communications solutions, and
    any bandwidth constraints could harm our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

In our managed satellite and terrestrial communications
    solutions operations, we compete for satellite bandwidth with
    other commercial entities, such as other satellite
    communications services providers and broadcasting companies,
    and with governmental entities, such as the military. In certain
    markets and at certain times, satellite bandwidth may be limitedand/orpricing of satellite bandwidth could be subject to competitive
    pressure. In such cases, we may be unable to secure sufficient
    bandwidth needed to provide our managed satellite communications
    services, either at favorable rates or at all. This inability
    could harm our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.



Changes
    in future business conditions could cause business investments
    and/or recorded goodwill to become impaired, resulting in
    substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results
    of operations.

Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies

Note 22: Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long-Lived
    Assets



We
    must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so
    could seriously harm us.

Our business has a continuing need to attract significant
    numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding
    security clearances, to support our growth and to replace
    individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or
    for other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified
    personnel exceeds supply, as has been the case from time to time
    in recent years, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or
    training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or
    could experience difficulties in performing under our contracts
    if our needs for such employees were unmet.



In addition, we are currently undertaking a search for a
    successor chief executive officer, which is a critical
    management position. The search for and transition to a
    successor chief executive officer may result in disruptions to
    our business and uncertainty among investors, employees and
    others concerning our future direction and performance. It also
    may be more difficult for us to recruit and retain other
    personnel until a successor chief executive officer is
    identified and the transition is completed. Any such disruptions
    and uncertainty, as well as the failure to successfully
    identify, attractand/orretain a successor chief executive officer or other executives
    and key employees could have an adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.



