Item 1.BUSINESS

Overview

Ingersoll-Rand plc (IR-Ireland), an Irish public limited
company, and its consolidated subsidiaries (we, our, the Company) is a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and
perishables, secure homes and commercial properties, and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. Our business segments consist of Climate Solutions, Residential Solutions, Industrial Technologies and Security Technologies, each with strong
brands and leading positions within their respective markets. We generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium
brand names such as Club Car®, Hussmann®, Ingersoll-Rand®, Schlage®, Thermo King®and Trane®.

To achieve our mission of becoming a world leader in creating safe, comfortable and efficient environments, as well as to become a more diversified
company with strong growth and profitability prospects, we transformed our enterprise portfolio by divesting cyclical, low-growth and asset-intensive businesses. In addition, our acquisition strategy has helped deliver more consistent revenue and
earnings performance across all phases of the economic cycle. Aside from our portfolio transformation, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream, which includes revenues from parts, service, used equipment and rentals. We also
intend to continuously improve the efficiencies, capabilities, products and services of our high-potential businesses.

On July 1, 2009,
Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited (IR-Limited), a Bermuda company, completed a reorganization to change the jurisdiction of incorporation of the parent company of Ingersoll Rand from Bermuda to Ireland (the Ireland Reorganization). As a result,
IR-Ireland replaced IR-Limited as the ultimate parent company effective July 1, 2009. In conjunction with the Ireland Reorganization, IR-Limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary of IR-Ireland and the Class A common shareholders of
IR-Limited became ordinary shareholders of IR-Ireland. All references related to the Company prior to July 1, 2009 relate to IR-Limited.

Ireland Reorganization

On March 5,
2009, our board of directors approved a reorganization of the Company that would change the jurisdiction of incorporation of our parent company from Bermuda to Ireland. The first step in the Ireland Reorganization was the establishment of
IR-Limited’s tax residency in Ireland, which occurred in March 2009. Subsequently, IR-Ireland replaced IR-Limited as the ultimate parent company pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under Bermuda law. The Ireland Reorganization was accounted for
as a reorganization of entities under common control and accordingly, did not result in any changes to the consolidated amounts of assets, liabilities and equity. As a result of the Ireland Reorganization, IR-Limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary
of IR-Ireland and the Class A common shareholders of IR-Limited became ordinary shareholders of IR-Ireland.

On July 1, 2009,
IR-Limited completed the transfer of all the outstanding shares of Ingersoll-Rand Global Holding Company Limited (IR-Global) to Ingersoll-Rand International Holding Limited (IR-International), another wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of IR-Limited
incorporated in Bermuda, whereupon IR-International assumed the obligations of IR-Limited as an issuer or guarantor, as the case may be, under the indentures governing the Company’s outstanding notes, medium-term notes and debentures.
IR-Ireland and IR-Limited also fully and unconditionally guarantee the payment obligations of IR-International, IR-Global and Ingersoll-Rand Company, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of IR-Limited incorporated in New Jersey (IR-New Jersey), as the
case may be, as the issuers of debt securities under these indentures. Neither IR-Ireland nor IR-Limited has issued or intends to issue guarantees in respect of any public indebtedness incurred by Trane. In addition, any securities issued by the
Company that were convertible, exchangeable or exercisable into Class A common shares of IR-Limited became convertible, exchangeable or exercisable, as the case may be, into the ordinary shares of IR-Ireland.







The Ireland Reorganization did not have a material impact on our financial results. Ingersoll-Rand plc
continues to be subject to United States Securities and Exchange Commission reporting requirements and prepares financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Shares of Ingersoll-Rand plc continue to
trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IR”, the same symbol under which the Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited Class A common shares previously traded.

Bermuda Reorganization

IR-New Jersey was organized in 1905 under the laws of the State of
New Jersey as a consolidation of Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Company and the Rand Drill Company, whose businesses were established in the early 1870s.

IR-Limited was the successor to IR-New Jersey following a corporate reorganization that became effective on December 31, 2001 (the Bermuda Reorganization). The Bermuda Reorganization was accounted
for as a reorganization of entities under common control and accordingly, did not result in any changes to the consolidated amounts of assets, liabilities and equity.

Recent Acquisitions and Divestitures

On December 30, 2010, we completed the
divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the Energy Systems brand, to Flex Energy, LLC. The planned divestiture met both the component and held for sale criteria during the third quarter of 2010. Therefore, we
have reported this business as a discontinued operation and classified the assets and liabilities as held for sale for all periods presented.

On October 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our European refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the KOXKA brand, to an
affiliate of American Industrial Acquisition Corporation (AIAC Group). The planned divestiture met both the component and held for sale criteria during the second quarter of 2010. Therefore, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation
and classified the assets and liabilities as held for sale for all periods presented.

On June 5, 2008 (the Acquisition Date), we
completed our acquisition of 100% of the outstanding common shares of Trane Inc. (Trane). Trane, previously named American Standard Companies Inc., provides systems and services that enhance the quality and comfort of the air in homes and buildings
around the world. Trane’s systems and services have leading positions in commercial, residential, institutional and industrial markets; a reputation for reliability, high quality and product innovation; and a powerful distribution network. The
total cost of the acquisition was approximately $9.6 billion, which was funded by a combination of cash on hand, commercial paper and a 364-day senior unsecured bridge loan facility.

Business Segments

Our business segments provide products, services and solutions used to
increase the efficiency and productivity of both industrial and commercial operations and homes, as well as improve the security, safety, health and comfort of people around the world.

On December 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the Energy Systems brand. The business, which was previously reported as part of
the Industrial Technologies segment, designs, manufactures, markets, distributes, and services gas powered microturbine generators which feature energy efficient design and low emissions technology. Segment information has been revised to exclude
the results of this business for all periods presented.

On October 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our European refrigerated
display case business, which was sold under the KOXKA brand. The business, which was previously reported as part of the Climate Solutions segment, designs, manufactures and markets commercial refrigeration equipment through sales branches and a
network of distributors throughout Europe, Africa and the Middle East. KOXKA had two manufacturing facilities in Spain and employed 445 people. Segment information has been revised to exclude the results of this business for all periods presented.







Our business segments are as follows:

Climate Solutions

Our Climate Solutions segment delivers energy-efficient refrigeration
and Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) solutions throughout the world. Encompassing the transport and stationary refrigeration markets as well as the commercial HVAC markets, this segment offers customers a broad range of products,
services and solutions to manage controlled temperature environments. This segment, which had 2010 net revenues of $7.8 billion, includes the market-leading brands of Hussmann, Thermo King and Trane.

Residential Solutions

Our Residential
Solutions segment provides safety, comfort and efficiency to homeowners throughout North America and parts of South America. It offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions including mechanical and electronic locks,
energy-efficient HVAC systems, indoor air quality solutions, advanced controls, portable security systems and remote home management. This segment, which had 2010 net revenues of $2.1 billion, is comprised of well-known brands like American
Standard, Schlage and Trane.

Industrial Technologies

Our Industrial Technologies segment provides products, services and solutions that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. It offers our global customers a diverse and innovative
range of products including compressed air systems, tools, pumps, fluid handling systems, as well as golf, utility, and rough terrain vehicles. It also includes a diverse range of service offerings including full coverage and preventative
maintenance service contracts, service parts, installation, and remanufactured compressors and tools. This segment, which had 2010 net revenues of $2.5 billion, includes the Club Car, Ingersoll Rand, and ARO market-leading brands.

Security Technologies

Our Security
Technologies segment is a leading global provider of products and services that make environments safe, secure and productive. The segment’s market-leading products include electronic and biometric access control systems and software, locks and
locksets, door closers, exit devices, steel doors and frames, portable security devices, as well as time, attendance and personnel scheduling systems. These products serve a wide range of markets including the commercial construction market,
healthcare, retail, maritime and transport industries as well as educational and governmental facilities. This segment, which had 2010 net revenues of $1.7 billion, includes the CISA, LCN, Schlage and Von Duprin brands.

Products

Our principal products by
business segment include the following:



Climate
SolutionsAftermarket parts and serviceDiesel-powered temperature control systemsAir cleanersDisplay merchandisersAir conditionersFurnacesAir exchangersHeat pumpsAir handlersHumidifiersAirside and terminal devicesInstallation contractingApplied systemsPackage heating and cooling systemsAuxiliary idle reductionRefrigerated containersAuxiliary temperature managementRefrigeration and electrical housesBoilersRefrigeration systemsBuilding management systemsSurface and air sanitationBus and rail HVAC systemsThermostats/controlsCoils and condensersUnitary systemsContainers and gensetsVehicle-powered truck refrigeration systemsControl systemsWalk-in coolers and freezersCryogenic temperature control systems









Residential
SolutionsAir cleanersFurnacesAir conditionersHeat pumpsAir exchangersHumidifiersAir handlersPackage heating and cooling systemsDoor locks, latches and locksetsPortable security productsElectrical security productsThermostats/controlsElectronic access-control systemsUnitary systems



Industrial
TechnologiesAir and electric toolsGolf vehiclesAir balancersLubrication equipmentAir compressors & accessoriesMaterial handling equipmentAir motorsOn-Road Low Speed VehiclesAir treatmentPiston pumpsBlowersRough Terrain (AWD) VehiclesDiaphragm pumpsUtility vehiclesEngine-starting systemsVisage™ Mobile Golf Information SystemsFluid-handling equipment



Security
TechnologiesBiometric access control systemsElectrical security productsDoor closers and controlsElectronic access-control systemsDoor locks, latches and locksetsExit devicesDoors and door frames (steel)

These products are sold primarily under our name and under other names including American
Standard®, CISA®, Club Car®, Hussmann®, LCN®, Schlage®, Thermo King®, Von Duprin®and Trane®.

Competitive Conditions

Our products are
sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Due to the diversity of these products and the variety of markets served, we encounter a wide variety of competitors that vary by product line. They include well-established regional or
specialized competitors, as well as larger U.S. and non-U.S. corporations or divisions of larger companies.

The principal methods of
competition in these markets relate to price, quality, delivery, service and support, technology and innovation. We believe that we are one of the leading manufacturers in the world of HVAC systems and services, air compression systems, transport
temperature control products, refrigerated display merchandisers, refrigeration systems and controls, air tools, and golf and utility vehicles. In addition, we believe we are a leading supplier in U.S. markets for architectural hardware products,
mechanical locks and electronic and biometric access-control technologies.

Distribution

Our products are distributed by a number of methods, which we believe are appropriate to the type of product. U.S. sales are made through branch sales
offices and through distributors, dealers and large retailers across the country. Non-U.S. sales are made through numerous subsidiary sales and service companies with a supporting chain of distributors throughout the world.







Customers

We have no major customers that accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenues in 2010, 2009 or 2008. No material part of our business is dependent upon a single customer or a small group of
customers; therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse effect on our operations.

Raw Materials

We manufacture many of the components included in our products, which requires us to employ a wide variety of raw materials. Principal raw
materials, such as steel, copper and aluminum, are purchased from a large number of independent sources around the world. In the past, higher prices for some raw materials, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, have caused pricing pressures in
some of our businesses; we have historically been able to pass certain of these cost increases on to customers in the form of price increases.

We believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for the foreseeable future. There have been no raw material shortages which have
had a material adverse effect on our businesses. However, significant changes in certain material costs may have an adverse impact on our costs and operating margins. To mitigate this potential impact, we enter into long-term supply contracts in
order to manage our exposure to potential supply disruptions.

Working Capital

We manufacture products that usually must be readily available to meet our customers’ rapid delivery requirements. Therefore, we maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business
needs and our customers’ requirements. Such working capital requirements are not, however, in the opinion of management, materially different from those experienced by our major competitors. Our sales and payment terms are generally similar to
those of our competitors.

Research and Development

We engage in research and development activities in an effort to introduce new products, enhance existing product effectiveness, increase safety, improve ease of use and reliability as well as expand the
various applications for which our products may be appropriate. In addition, we continually evaluate developing technologies in areas that we believe will enhance our business for possible investment or acquisition. We anticipate that we will
continue to make significant expenditures for research and development activities as we look to maintain and improve our competitive position. Research and development expenditures, including qualifying engineering costs, were approximately $244.0
million in 2010, $255.0 million in 2009 and $201.1 million in 2008.

Patents and Licenses

We own numerous patents and patent applications, and are licensed under others. Although in aggregate we consider our patents and licenses to be valuable
to our operations, we do not believe that our business is materially dependent on a single patent or license or any group of them. In our opinion, engineering, production skills and experience are more responsible for our market position than our
patents and/or licenses.

Operations by Geographic Area

More than 35% of our 2010 net revenues were derived outside the U.S. and we sold products in more than 100 countries. Therefore, the attendant risks of manufacturing or selling in a particular country,
such as nationalization and establishment of common markets, would not be expected to have a significant effect on our non-U.S. operations. For a discussion of risks attendant to our non-U.S. operations, see “Risk Factors – Currency
exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations may adversely affect our results,” and “Risk Factors – Our global operations subject us to economic risks,” in Item 1A and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about
Market Risk” in Item 7A.







Backlog

Our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, were as follows:



Dollar amounts in millions20102009Climate Solutions$1,653.0$1,602.5Residential Solutions73.832.7Industrial Technologies412.3332.1Security Technologies165.1160.4Total$2,304.2$2,127.7

These backlog figures are based on orders received. While the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled
from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. We expect to ship substantially the entire backlog at
December 31, 2010 during 2011.

Environmental Matters

We continue to be dedicated to an environmental program intended to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process as well as to remediate identified
environmental concerns. As to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities.

We are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations
from the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state authorities. We have been also identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal Superfund and state remediation sites.
For all such sites, there are other PRPs and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal.

In estimating our liability, we have assumed
that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other PRPs who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other PRPs to participate has been taken into account, based generally on the parties’
financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. Additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future.

During 2010, we spent $11.6 million for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we have recorded reserves for environmental
matters of $81.0 million and $91.4 million, respectively. Given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain.

For a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
Environmental and Asbestos Matters and also Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Asbestos Matters

Certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits,
a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims has been filed against either IR-New Jersey or Trane and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical
products sold by IR-New Jersey or Trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. Neither IR-New Jersey nor Trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing
components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers.







See also the discussion under Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters and also Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010,
we employed approximately 59,000 people throughout the world.

Available Information

We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can
obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov.

In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website(http://www.ingersollrand.com)as soon as reasonably practicable after such
reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Board of Directors of the Company has also adopted and posted in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for
each of the Board’s standing committees. The contents of the Company’s website are not incorporated by reference in this report.

Certifications

New York Stock
Exchange Annual Chief Executive Officer Certification

The Company’s Chief Executive Officer submitted to the New York Stock Exchange
the Annual CEO Certification as the Company’s compliance with the New York Stock Exchange’s corporate governance listing standards required by Section 303A.12 of the New York Stock Exchange’s listing standards.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 Certification

The certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have been filed as exhibits to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.







