Item 1.BUSINESS

Overview

Ingersoll-Rand plc (IR-Ireland), an Irish public limited company, and its consolidated subsidiaries (we, our, the Company) is a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables, secure homes and commercial properties, and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. Our business segments consist of Climate Solutions, Residential Solutions, Industrial Technologies and Security Technologies, each with strong brands and leading positions within their respective markets. We generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as Club Car®, Ingersoll-Rand®, Schlage®, Thermo King®and Trane®.

To achieve our mission of becoming a world leader in creating safe, comfortable and efficient environments, as well as to become a more diversified company with strong growth and profitability prospects, we began transforming our enterprise portfolio in recent years by divesting cyclical, low-growth and asset-intensive businesses. In addition, our acquisition strategy has helped deliver more consistent revenue and earnings performance across all phases of the economic cycle. Aside from our portfolio transformation, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream from parts, service, used equipment and rentals; and to continuously improve the efficiencies and capabilities of the products and services of our high-potential businesses.  We also continue to focus on operational excellence strategies as a central theme to improving our Company.

On July 1, 2009, Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited (IR-Limited), a Bermuda company, completed a reorganization to change the jurisdiction of incorporation of our parent company from Bermuda to Ireland (the Ireland Reorganization). As a result, IR-Ireland replaced IR-Limited as the ultimate parent company effective July 1, 2009. The Ireland Reorganization was accounted for as a reorganization of entities under common control and accordingly, did not result in any changes to the consolidated amounts of assets, liabilities and equity. In conjunction with the Ireland Reorganization, IR-Limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary of IR-Ireland and the Class A common shareholders of IR-Limited became ordinary shareholders of IR-Ireland. All references related to the Company prior to July 1, 2009 relate to IR-Limited.

The Ireland Reorganization did not have a material impact on our financial results. IR-Ireland continues to be subject to United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reporting requirements and prepares financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Shares of IR-Ireland continue to trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IR”, the same symbol under which the IR-Limited Class A common shares previously traded.

Recent Acquisitions and Divestitures

Divested Operations

On September 30, 2011, we completed a transaction to sell our Hussmann refrigerated display case business to a newly-formed affiliate (Hussmann Parent) of private equity firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice, LLC (CD&R).  This transaction included the equipment business and certain of the service branches in the U.S. and Canada, and the equipment, service and installation businesses in Mexico, Chile, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan (Hussmann Business).  The transaction allowed Hussmann Parent the option to acquire the remaining North American Hussmann service and installation branches (Hussmann Branches).  Hussmann Parent completed the acquisition of the Hussmann Branches on November 30, 2011.  The Hussmann Business and Branches, which were reported as part of the Climate Solutions segment through their respective transaction dates, manufacture, market, distribute, install, and service refrigerated display merchandising equipment, refrigeration systems, over the counter parts, and other commercial and industrial refrigeration applications.  The transaction included, among other things, our ownership of common stock of Hussmann Parent, such that following the sale, CD&R would own cumulative convertible participating preferred stock of Hussmann Parent, initially representing

60%

of the outstanding capital stock (on an as-converted basis) of Hussmann Parent, and we would own all of the common stock, initially representing the remaining

40%

of the outstanding capital stock (on an as-converted basis) of Hussmann Parent.  See "Divestitures and Discontinued Operations" within Management's Discussion and Analysis and also Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of our divested operations.

Discontinued Operations

On December 30, 2011, we completed the divestiture of our security installation and service business, which was sold under the Integrated Systems and Services brand in the United States and Canada, to Kratos Public Safety & Security Solutions, Inc.  This business, which was previously reported as part of the Security Technologies segment, designs, installs and services security systems.  As a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.















On December 30, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our gas microturbine generator business, which was sold under the Energy Systems brand, to Flex Energy, Inc. The business, which was previously reported as part of the Industrial Technologies segment, designs, manufactures, markets, distributes, and services gas powered microturbine generators which feature energy efficient design and low emissions technology. As a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.

On October 4, 2010, we completed the divestiture of our European refrigerated display case business, which was sold under the KOXKA brand, to an affiliate of American Industrial Acquisition Corporation (AIAC Group). The business, which was previously reported as part of the Climate Solutions segment, designs, manufactures and markets commercial refrigeration equipment through sales branches and a network of distributors throughout Europe, Africa and the Middle East. As a result of the sale, we have reported this business as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.

See "Divestitures and Discontinued Operations" within Management's Discussion and Analysis and also Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of our discontinued operations.

Business Segments

Our business segments provide products, services and solutions used to increase the efficiency and productivity of both industrial and commercial operations and homes, as well as improve the security, safety, health and comfort of people around the world.

Our business segments are as follows:

Climate Solutions

Our Climate Solutions segment delivers energy-efficient refrigeration and Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) throughout the world. Encompassing the transport markets as well as the commercial HVAC markets, this segment offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions to manage controlled temperature environments.  This segment, which had2011net revenues of $8.3 billion, includes the market-leading brands of Thermo King and Trane.

Residential Solutions

Our Residential Solutions segment provides safety, comfort and efficiency to homeowners throughout North America and parts of South America. It offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions including mechanical and electronic locks, energy-efficient HVAC systems, indoor air quality solutions, advanced controls, portable security systems and remote home management. This segment, which had2011net revenues of $2.0 billion, is comprised of well-known brands like American Standard®, Schlage and Trane.

Industrial Technologies

Our Industrial Technologies segment provides products, services and solutions that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. It offers our global customers a diverse and innovative range of products including compressed air systems, tools, pumps, fluid and material handling systems, as well as golf, utility, and rough terrain vehicles. It also includes a diverse range of service offerings including full coverage and preventative maintenance service contracts, service parts, installation, and remanufactured compressors and tools. This segment, which had2011net revenues of $2.9 billion, includes the Club Car, Ingersoll Rand, and ARO®market-leading brands.

Security Technologies

Our Security Technologies segment is a leading global provider of products and services that make environments safe, secure and productive. The segment’s market-leading products include electronic and biometric access control systems and software, locks and locksets, door closers, exit devices, steel doors and frames, as well as time, attendance and personnel scheduling systems. These products serve a wide range of markets including the commercial construction market, healthcare, retail, and transport industries as well as educational and governmental facilities. This segment, which had2011net revenues of $1.6 billion, includes the CISA®, LCN®, Schlage and Von Duprin®market-leading brands.









Products

Our principal products by business segment include the following:



Climate SolutionsAftermarket parts and serviceControl systemsAir cleanersCryogenic temperature control systemsAir conditionersDiesel-powered temperature control systemsAir exchangersFurnacesAir handlersHeat pumpsAirside and terminal devicesHumidifiersApplied systemsInstallation contractingAuxiliary idle reductionPackage heating and cooling systemsAuxiliary temperature managementRefrigerated containersBoilersRefrigeration and electrical housesBuilding management systemsSurface and air sanitationBus and rail HVAC systemsThermostats/controlsCoils and condensersUnitary systemsContainers and gensetsVehicle-powered truck refrigeration systems

Residential SolutionsAir cleanersFurnacesAir conditionersHeat pumpsAir exchangersHumidifiersAir handlersPackage heating and cooling systemsDoor locks, latches and locksetsPortable security productsElectrical security productsThermostats/controlsElectronic access-control systemsUnitary systems

Industrial TechnologiesAir and electric toolsGolf vehiclesAir balancersLubrication equipmentAir compressors & accessoriesMaterial handling equipmentAir motorsOn-Road Low Speed VehiclesAir treatmentPiston pumpsBlowersRough Terrain (AWD) VehiclesDiaphragm pumpsUtility vehiclesEngine-starting systemsVisage®Mobile Golf Information SystemsFluid-handling equipment

Security TechnologiesBiometric access control systemsElectrical security productsDoor closers and controlsElectronic access-control systemsDoor locks, latches and locksetsExit devicesDoors and door frames (steel)Time, attendance, and personnel scheduling systems

These products are sold primarily under our name and under other names including American Standard, ARO, CISA, Club Car, LCN, Schlage, Thermo King, Von Duprin and Trane.









Competitive Conditions

Our products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Due to the diversity of these products and the variety of markets served, we encounter a wide variety of competitors that vary by product line. They include well-established regional or specialized competitors, as well as larger U.S. and non-U.S. corporations or divisions of larger companies.

The principal methods of competition in these markets relate to price, quality, delivery, service and support, technology and innovation. We believe that we are one of the leading manufacturers in the world of HVAC systems and services, air compression systems, transport temperature control products, air tools, and golf and utility vehicles. In addition, we believe we are a leading supplier in U.S. markets for architectural hardware products, mechanical locks and electronic and biometric access-control technologies.

Distribution

Our products are distributed by a number of methods, which we believe are appropriate to the type of product. U.S. sales are made through branch sales offices and through distributors, dealers and large retailers across the country. Non-U.S. sales are made through numerous subsidiary sales and service companies with a supporting chain of distributors throughout the world.

Customers

We have no customer that accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenues in2011,2010or2009. No material part of our business is dependent upon a single customer or a small group of customers; therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.

Raw Materials

We manufacture many of the components included in our products, which requires us to employ a wide variety of commodities. Principal commodities, such as steel, copper and aluminum, are purchased from a large number of independent sources around the world. In the past, higher prices for some commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, have caused pricing pressures in some of our businesses; we have historically been able to pass certain of these cost increases on to customers in the form of price increases.

We believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for the foreseeable future. There have been no commodity shortages which have had a material adverse effect on our businesses. However, significant changes in certain material costs may have an adverse impact on our costs and operating margins. To mitigate this potential impact, we enter into long-term supply contracts in order to manage our exposure to potential supply disruptions.

Working Capital

We manufacture products that usually must be readily available to meet our customers’ rapid delivery requirements. Therefore, we maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business needs and our customers’ requirements. Such working capital requirements are not, however, in the opinion of management, materially different from those experienced by our major competitors. We believe our sales and payment terms are competitive in and appropriate for the markets in which we compete.

Seasonality

Demand for certain segments of our products and services is influenced by weather conditions. For instance, Trane's sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the U.S. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. Therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of our business and impact overall results of operations.

Research and Development

We engage in research and development activities in an effort to introduce new products, enhance existing product effectiveness, increase safety, improve ease of use and reliability as well as expand the various applications for which our products may be appropriate. In addition, we continually evaluate developing technologies in areas that we believe will enhance our business for possible investment or acquisition. We anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development activities as we look to maintain and improve our competitive position. Research and development expenditures, including qualifying engineering costs, were approximately $257.3 millionin2011, $244.0 millionin2010and $255.0 millionin2009.









Patents and Licenses

We own numerous patents and patent applications, and are licensed under others. Although in aggregate we consider our patents and licenses to be valuable to our operations, we do not believe that our business is materially dependent on a single patent or license or any group of them. In our opinion, engineering, production skills and experience are more responsible for our market position than our patents and/or licenses.

Operations by Geographic Area

More than40%of our2011net revenues were derived outside the U.S. and we sold products in more than 100 countries. Therefore, the attendant risks of manufacturing or selling in a particular country, such as nationalization and establishment of common markets, may have an adverse impact on our non-U.S. operations. For a discussion of risks attendant to our non-U.S. operations, see “Risk Factors – Our global operations subject us to economic risks,” and “Risk Factors – Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results,” in Item 1A and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Item 7A.

Backlog

Our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, atDecember 31, was as follows:

In millions20112010Climate Solutions$1,395.8$1,653.0Residential Solutions42.868.6Industrial Technologies489.5412.3Security Technologies135.1131.3Total$2,063.2$2,265.2

These backlog figures are based on orders received. While the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. We expect to ship substantially all theDecember 31, 2011backlog during2012.

Environmental Matters

We continue to be dedicated to an environmental program intended to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process as well as to remediate identified environmental concerns. As to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities.

We are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state authorities. We have been also identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal Superfund and state remediation sites. For all such sites, there are other PRPs and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal.

In estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other PRPs who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other PRPs to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties’ financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. Additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future.

We incurred $3.1 million, $1.0 million, and$2.5 millionof expenses during the years endedDecember 31, 2011,2010, and2009, respectively, for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. As ofDecember 31, 2011and2010, we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $71.7 millionand $81.0 million, respectively.  Of these amounts $51.3 millionand $56.3 millionrelate to remediation of sites previously disposed by us.   Environmental reserves are classified as Accrued expenses and other current liabilities, or Other noncurrent liabilities based on their expected term.  Our total current environmental reserve atDecember 31, 2011and2010was $26.9 millionand $28.1 million, respectively. Given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain.

For a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters as well as Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.









Asbestos Matters

Certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in U.S. state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims have been filed against either Ingersoll-Rand Company (IR-New Jersey) or Trane and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by IR-New Jersey or Trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. Neither IR-New Jersey nor Trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers.

See also the discussion under Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters as well as Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2011, we employed approximately52,000people throughout the world.

Available Information

We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov.

In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website(http://www.ingersollrand.com)as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Board of Directors of the Company has also adopted and posted in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees. The contents of the Company’s website are not incorporated by reference in this report.

Certifications

New York Stock Exchange Annual Chief Executive Officer Certification

The Company’s Chief Executive Officer submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the Annual CEO Certification as the Company’s compliance with the New York Stock Exchange’s corporate governance listing standards required by Section 303A.12 of the New York Stock Exchange’s listing standards.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 Certification

The certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





