Item 1.BUSINESS

Overview

Ingersoll-Rand plc (IR-Ireland), a public limited company incorporated in Ireland in 2009, and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, we, our, the Company) is a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and perishables, and increase industrial productivity and efficiency. Our business segments consist of Climate and Industrial, both with strong brands and leading positions within their respective markets. We generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium brand names such as Trane®, Ingersoll-Rand®, Thermo King®, American Standard®and Club Car®.

To achieve our mission of being a world leader in creating comfortable and efficient environments, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream from parts, service, used equipment and rentals; and to continuously improve the efficiencies and capabilities of the products and services of our businesses. We also continue to focus on operational excellence strategies as a central theme to improving our earnings and cash flows.

Recent Divestitures

Discontinued Operations

On December 1, 2013 (the Distribution Date), we completed the spin-off of our commercial and residential security businesses to our shareholders (the spin-off). On the Distribution Date, each of our shareholders of record as of the close of business on November 22, 2013 (the Record Date) received one ordinary share of Allegion, plc (Allegion) for every three Ingersoll-Rand plc ordinary shares held as of the Record Date. Allegion is now an independent public company trading under the symbol “ALLE” on the New York Stock Exchange.

After the Distribution Date, we do not beneficially own any Allegion ordinary shares (other than approximately 7,045 shares received in a deferred compensation trust upon the spin-off as a result of the trust holding ordinary shares of Ingersoll-Rand plc as of the Record Date) and will no longer consolidate Allegion into our financial results. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013, Allegion's historical financial results for periods prior to the Distribution Date are reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements as a discontinued operation.

Divested Operations

On September 30, 2011 and November 30, 2011, we completed transactions to sell our Hussmann refrigerated display case business to a newly-formed affiliate (Hussmann Parent) of private equity firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice, LLC (CD&R). These transactions included the equipment business and certain of the service branches in the U.S. and Canada, and the equipment, service and installation businesses in Mexico, Chile, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan (Hussmann Business) and the remaining North American Hussmann service and installation branches (Hussmann Branches). We negotiated the final terms of the transaction to include our ownership of a portion of the common stock of Hussmann Parent, which represents significant continuing involvement. Therefore, the results of Hussmann are included in continuing operations for all periods presented, with our ownership interest reported using the equity method of accounting subsequent to September 30, 2011.

See “Discontinued Operations and Divestitures” within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and also Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of our discontinued and divested operations.

Business Segments

Our business segments provide products, services and solutions used to increase the efficiency and productivity of both industrial and commercial operations and homes, as well as improve the health and comfort of people around the world.

In the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company realigned its organizational structure to provide a greater focus on growth, continue implementation of business operating systems, build on our successful operational excellence philosophy and reduce complexity and costs. The Company’s new reporting structure includes the Climate and Industrial segments.

Our business segments are as follows:

Climate

Our Climate segment delivers energy-efficient solutions globally and includes Trane®and American Standard®Heating & Air Conditioning which provide heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, and commercial and residential building services, parts, support and controls; and Thermo King®transport temperature control solutions. This segment had2013net revenues of $9.4 billion.









Industrial

Our Industrial segment delivers products and services that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. It includes Ingersoll Rand®compressed air systems and services, power tools, material handling systems, ARO®fluid management equipment, as well as Club Car®golf, utility and rough terrain vehicles. This segment had2013net revenues of $2.9 billion.

Segment Revenue and profit information and additional financial data and commentary on recent financial results for operating segments are provided in the Review of Business Segments section in Part II, Item7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Products and Services

Our principal products and services by business segment include the following:

ClimateAftermarket parts and serviceEnergy management servicesAir cleanersFacility management servicesAir conditionersFurnacesAir exchangersHeat pumpsAir handlersHumidifiersAirside and terminal devicesInstallation contractingAuxiliary idle reductionPackage heating and cooling systemsAuxiliary temperature managementPerformance contractingBuilding management systemsRepair and maintenance servicesBus and rail HVAC systemsService agreementsChillersTemporary heating and cooling systemsCoils and condensersThermostats/controlsContainer refrigeration systems and gensetsTrailer refrigeration systemsControl systemsUnitary systemsCryogenic refrigeration systemsVehicle-powered truck refrigeration systemsDiesel-powered refrigeration systems

IndustrialAir compressors (centrifugal, reciprocating, and rotary)Hoists (air, electric, and manual)Aftermarket parts and accessoriesMotion control componentsAirendsPower tools (air, cordless, and electric)BlowersPrecision fastening systemsDryersPumps (diaphragm and piston)Engine starting systemsRough terrain (AWD) vehiclesErgonomic material handling systemsService contracts and programsFiltersUtility and low-speed vehiclesFluid handling systemsVisage®mobile golf information systemsGolf vehiclesWinches (air, electric, and hydraulic)

These products are sold primarily under our name and under other names including American Standard, ARO, Club Car, Thermo King and Trane.

Competitive Conditions

Our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Due to the diversity of these products and services and the variety of markets served, we encounter a wide variety of competitors that vary by product line and services. They include well-established regional or specialized competitors, as well as larger U.S. and non-U.S. corporations or divisions of larger companies.

The principal methods of competition in these markets relate to price, quality, delivery, service and support, technology and innovation. We believe that we are one of the leading manufacturers in the world of HVAC systems and services, air compression systems, transport temperature control products, air tools, and golf and utility vehicles.









Distribution

Our products are distributed by a number of methods, which we believe are appropriate to the type of product. U.S. sales are made through branch sales offices, distributors and dealers across the country. Non-U.S. sales are made through numerous subsidiary sales and service companies with a supporting chain of distributors throughout the world.

Customers

We have no customer that accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenues in2013,2012or2011. No material part of our business is dependent upon a single customer or a small group of customers; therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows.

Raw Materials

We manufacture many of the components included in our products, which requires us to employ a wide variety of commodities. Principal commodities, such as steel, copper and aluminum, are purchased from a large number of independent sources around the world. In the past, higher prices for some commodities, particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, have caused pricing pressures in some of our businesses; we have historically been able to pass certain of these cost increases on to customers in the form of price increases; however, we may not always be able to offset these cost increases with price increases.

We believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for the foreseeable future. There have been no commodity shortages which have had a material adverse effect on our businesses. However, significant changes in certain material costs may have an adverse impact on our costs and operating margins. To mitigate this potential impact, we enter into long-term supply contracts in order to manage our exposure to potential supply disruptions.

Working Capital

We manufacture products that usually must be readily available to meet our customers’ rapid delivery requirements. Therefore, we maintain an adequate level of working capital to support our business needs and our customers’ requirements. Such working capital requirements are not, however, in the opinion of management, materially different from those experienced by our major competitors. We believe our sales and payment terms are competitive in and appropriate for the markets in which we compete.

Seasonality

Demand for certain of our products and services is influenced by weather conditions. For instance, Trane's sales have historically tended to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because this represents summer in the U.S. and other northern hemisphere markets, which is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. Therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year and unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect certain segments of our business and impact overall results of operations.

Research and Development

We engage in research and development activities in an effort to introduce new products, enhance existing product effectiveness, improve ease of use and reliability as well as expand the various applications for which our products may be appropriate. In addition, we continually evaluate developing technologies in areas that we believe will enhance our business for possible investment or acquisition. We anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development activities as we look to maintain and improve our competitive position. Research and development expenditures were approximately $218.2 millionin2013, $235.4 millionin2012and $218.4 millionin2011.

Patents and Licenses

We own numerous patents and patent applications, and are licensed under others. Although in aggregate we consider our patents and licenses to be valuable to our operations, we do not believe that our business is materially dependent on a single patent or license or any group of them. In our opinion, engineering, production skills and experience are more responsible for our market position than our patents and/or licenses.

Operations by Geographic Area

More than40%of our2013net revenues were derived outside the U.S. and we sold products in more than 100 countries. Therefore, the attendant risks of manufacturing or selling in a particular country, such as nationalization and establishment of common markets, may have an adverse impact on our non-U.S. operations. For a discussion of risks associated with our non-U.S. operations, see









“Risk Factors – Our global operations subject us to economic risks,” and “Risk Factors – Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results,” in Item 1A and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Item 7A.

Backlog

Our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, atDecember 31, was as follows:

In millions20132012Climate$1,342.7$1,460.2Industrial517.4481.1Total$1,860.1$1,941.3

These backlog figures are based on orders received. While the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. We expect to ship substantially all theDecember 31, 2013backlog during2014.

Environmental Matters

We continue to be dedicated to an environmental program to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process and to remediate identified environmental concerns. As to the latter, we are currently engaged in site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities.

We are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state authorities. We have also been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal Superfund and state remediation sites. For all such sites, there are other PRPs and, in most instances, our involvement is minimal.

In estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of other PRPs who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other PRPs to participate has been taken into account, based on our understanding of the parties’ financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. Additional lawsuits and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future.

We incurred $(0.5) million, $3.1 million, and$1.2 millionof expenses during the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012, and2011, respectively, for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. As ofDecember 31, 2013and2012, we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $47.9 millionand $55.6 million, respectively. Of these amounts $42.1 millionand $41.2 million, respectively, relate to remediation of sites previously disposed by us. Our total current environmental reserve atDecember 31, 2013and2012was $13.5 millionand $18.0 million, respectively. Given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain.

For a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters as well as Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Asbestos Related Matters

Certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims have been filed against either Ingersoll-Rand Company (IR-New Jersey) or Trane U.S. Inc. (Trane) and generally allege injury caused by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by IR-New Jersey or Trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. Neither IR-New Jersey nor Trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third-party suppliers.

We incurred net costs after insurance recoveries of$56.2 million,$7.8 million, and$16.4 millionduring the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012, and2011, respectively, related to the settlement and defense of asbestos-related claims. Of these amounts,$55.8 million,$17.9 millionand$14.5 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012, and2011, respectively, relate to discontinued operations. Our total liability for asbestos-related matters and our total asset for probable asbestos-related insurance recoveries were$846.2 millionand$321.8 million, respectively, as ofDecember 31, 2013and$879.5 millionand$320.3 million, respectively, as ofDecember 31, 2012. Our total current liability for asbestos-related matters and our total current asset for probable asbestos-









related insurance recoveries was$69.1 millionand$22.3 million, respectively, as ofDecember 31, 2013and$69.1 millionand$22.5 million, respectively, as ofDecember 31, 2012.

See also the discussion under Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters as well as further detail in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we employed approximately42,000people throughout the world.

Available Information

We file annual, quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov.

In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Board of Directors of the Company has also adopted and posted in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees. The contents of the Company’s website are not incorporated by reference in this report.

Certifications

New York Stock Exchange Annual Chief Executive Officer Certification

The Company’s Chief Executive Officer submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the Annual CEO Certification as the Company’s compliance with the New York Stock Exchange’s corporate governance listing standards required by Section 303A.12 of the New York Stock Exchange’s listing standards.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 Certification

The certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



