Item 1.BUSINESS

Overview

Ingersoll-Rand plc (IR-Ireland), an Irish public limited
company, and its consolidated subsidiaries (we, our, the Company) is a diversified, global company that provides products, services and solutions to enhance the quality and comfort of air in homes and buildings, transport and protect food and
perishables, secure homes and commercial properties, and enhance industrial productivity and efficiency. Our business segments consist of Climate Solutions, Residential Solutions, Industrial Technologies and Security Technologies, each with strong
brands and leading positions within their respective markets. We generate revenue and cash primarily through the design, manufacture, sale and service of a diverse portfolio of industrial and commercial products that include well-recognized, premium
brand names such as Club Car®, Hussmann®, Ingersoll-Rand®,
Schlage®, Thermo King®and Trane®.

We are dedicated to inspiring progress for our customers, shareholders, employees and communities by achieving:



•Dramatic Growth, by focusing on innovative solutions for our customers;



•Operational Excellence, by pursuing continuous improvement in all of our operations; and



•Dual Citizenship, by bringing together the talents of all Ingersoll Rand people to leverage the capabilities of our global enterprise.

To achieve these goals and to become a more diversified company with strong growth prospects, we transformed our enterprise
portfolio by divesting cyclical, low-growth and asset-intensive businesses. In addition, our acquisition strategy has helped deliver more consistent revenue and earnings performance across all phases of the economic cycle. Aside from our portfolio
transformation, we continue to focus on increasing our recurring revenue stream, which includes revenues from parts, service, used equipment and rentals. We also intend to continuously improve the efficiencies, capabilities, products and services of
our high-potential businesses.

On July 1, 2009, Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited (IR-Limited), a Bermuda company, completed a
reorganization to change the jurisdiction of incorporation of the parent company of Ingersoll Rand from Bermuda to Ireland. As a result, IR-Ireland replaced IR-Limited as the ultimate parent company effective July 1, 2009. All references
related to the Company prior to July 1, 2009 relate to IR-Limited.

Ireland Reorganization

On March 5, 2009, our board of directors approved a reorganization of the Company that would change the jurisdiction of incorporation of our parent
company from Bermuda to Ireland (the Ireland Reorganization). The first step in the Ireland Reorganization was the establishment of IR-Limited’s tax residency in Ireland, which occurred in March 2009. Subsequently, IR-Ireland replaced
IR-Limited as the ultimate parent company pursuant to a scheme of arrangement under Bermuda law (the Scheme of Arrangement). Major milestones to complete the Scheme of Arrangement were as follows:



•On April 1, 2009, IR-Limited formed IR-Ireland as a direct subsidiary.



•On April 20, 2009, IR-Limited petitioned the Supreme Court of Bermuda to order the calling of a meeting of the Class A common shareholders of
IR-Limited to approve the Scheme of Arrangement.



•On April 23, 2009, the Supreme Court of Bermuda ordered IR-Limited to seek the approval of its Class A common shareholders on the Scheme of
Arrangement.









•On June 3, 2009, IR-Limited received the requisite approval from its Class A common shareholders.



•On June 11, 2009, the Supreme Court of Bermuda issued an order (the Sanction Order) approving the Scheme of Arrangement.

On June 30, 2009, IR-Limited filed the Sanction Order with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies and, at 12:01 a.m. on
July 1, 2009 (the Transaction Time) the following steps occurred simultaneously:



•All fractional shares of IR-Limited held of record were cancelled and IR-Limited paid to each holder of fractional shares that were cancelled an amount
based on the average of the high and low trading prices of the IR-Limited Class A common shares on the New York Stock Exchange on June 29, 2009.



•All previously outstanding whole Class A common shares of IR-Limited were cancelled.



•IR-Limited issued to IR-Ireland 319,166,220 Class A common shares.



•IR-Ireland issued 319,166,220 ordinary shares to holders of whole IR-Limited Class A common shares that were cancelled as a part of the Scheme of
Arrangement.



•All previously outstanding ordinary shares of IR-Ireland held by IR-Limited and its nominees were acquired by IR-Ireland and cancelled for no
consideration.

As a result of the Ireland Reorganization, IR-Limited became a wholly-owned subsidiary of IR-Ireland and the
Class A common shareholders of IR-Limited became ordinary shareholders of IR-Ireland.

The Ireland Reorganization did not have a material
impact on our financial results. Ingersoll-Rand plc will still continue to be subject to United States Securities and Exchange Commission reporting requirements and prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). Shares of Ingersoll-Rand plc will continue to trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IR”, the same symbol under which the Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited Class A common shares previously traded.

At the Transaction Time, IR-Limited completed the transfer of all the outstanding shares of Ingersoll-Rand Global Holding Company Limited
(IR-Global) to Ingersoll-Rand International Holding Limited (IR-International), another wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of IR-Limited incorporated in Bermuda, whereupon IR-International assumed the obligations of IR-Limited as an issuer or
guarantor, as the case may be, under the indentures governing the Company’s outstanding notes, medium-term notes and debentures. IR-Ireland and IR-Limited also fully and unconditionally guarantee the payment obligations of IR-International,
IR-Global and Ingersoll-Rand Company, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of IR-Limited incorporated in New Jersey (IR-New Jersey), as the case may be, as the issuers of debt securities under these indentures. Neither IR-Ireland nor IR-Limited has
issued or intends to issue guarantees in respect of any indebtedness incurred by Trane. In addition, any securities issued by the Company that were convertible, exchangeable or exercisable into Class A common shares of IR-Limited became
convertible, exchangeable or exercisable, as the case may be, into the ordinary shares of IR-Ireland.

Bermuda Reorganization

IR-New Jersey, was organized in 1905 under the laws of the State of New Jersey as a consolidation of Ingersoll-Sergeant Drill Company and
the Rand Drill Company, whose businesses were established in the early 1870s.

IR-Limited was the successor to IR-New Jersey following a
corporate reorganization that became effective on December 31, 2001 (the Bermuda Reorganization). The Bermuda Reorganization was accounted for as a reorganization of entities under common control and accordingly, did not result in any changes
to the consolidated amounts of assets, liabilities and shareholders’ equity.









Recent Acquisitions and
Divestitures

On June 5, 2008 (the Acquisition Date), we completed our acquisition of 100% of the outstanding common shares of Trane
Inc. (Trane). Trane, previously named American Standard Companies Inc., provides systems and services that enhance the quality and comfort of the air in homes and buildings around the world. Trane’s systems and services have leading positions
in commercial, residential, institutional and industrial markets; a reputation for reliability, high quality and product innovation; and a powerful distribution network. The total cost of the acquisition was approximately $9.6 billion, which was
funded by a combination of cash on hand, commercial paper and a 364-day senior unsecured bridge loan facility.

On November 30, 2007, we
completed the sale of our Bobcat, Utility Equipment and Attachments business units (collectively, Compact Equipment) to Doosan Infracore for cash proceeds of approximately $4.9 billion, subject to post-closing purchase price adjustments. Compact
Equipment manufactured and sold compact equipment including skid-steer loaders, compact track loaders, mini-excavators and telescopic tool handlers, portable air compressors, generators, light towers, general-purpose light construction equipment and
attachments. We are currently in the process of resolving the final purchase price adjustments with Doosan Infracore.

On April 30, 2007,
we completed the sale of our Road Development business unit to AB Volvo (publ) for cash proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion. The Road Development business unit manufactured and sold asphalt paving equipment, compaction equipment, milling machines
and construction-related material handling equipment.

Business Segments

Our business segments provide products, services and solutions used to increase the efficiency and productivity of both industrial and commercial operations and homes, as well as improve the security,
safety, health and comfort of people around the world.

In the fourth quarter of 2009, we realigned our external reporting structure to more
closely reflect our corporate and business strategies and to promote additional productivity and growth. Our segments are now as follows: Climate Solutions, Residential Solutions, Industrial Technologies and Security Technologies. As part of the
change, we eliminated the Air Conditioning Systems and Services segment which represented the acquired Trane business and created two new reportable segments, the Climate Solutions segment and the Residential Solutions segment. Our business segments
are as follows:

Climate Solutions

Our Climate Solutions segment delivers energy-efficient refrigeration and Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) solutions throughout the world. Encompassing the transport and stationary refrigeration markets as well as the
commercial HVAC markets, this segment offers customers a broad range of products, services and solutions to manage controlled temperature environments. This segment, which had 2009 net revenues of $7.3 billion, includes the market leading brands of
Hussmann, Thermo King and Trane.

Residential Solutions

Our Residential Solutions segment provides safety, comfort and efficiency to homeowners throughout North America and parts of South America. It offers customers a broad range of products, services and
solutions including mechanical and electronic locks, energy-efficient HVAC systems, indoor air quality solutions, advanced controls, portable security systems and remote home management. This segment, which had 2009 net revenues of $2.0 billion, is
comprised of well-known brands like American Standard, Schlage and Trane.

Industrial Technologies

Our Industrial Technologies segment provides products, services and solutions that enhance energy efficiency, productivity and operations. It offers our
global customers a diverse and innovative range of products including compressed air systems, tools, pumps, fluid handling systems, golf and utility vehicles in addition to environmentally friendly micro turbines. This segment, which had 2009 net
revenues of $2.2 billion, includes the Club Car and Ingersoll Rand market-leading brands.









Security Technologies

Our Security Technologies segment is a leading global provider of products and services that make environments safe, secure and productive.
The segment’s market-leading products include electronic and biometric access control systems and software, locks and locksets, door closers, exit devices, steel doors and frames, portable security devices, as well as time, attendance and
personnel scheduling systems. These products serve a wide range of markets including the commercial construction market, healthcare, retail, maritime and transport industries as well as educational and governmental facilities. This segment, which
had 2009 net revenues of $1.7 billion, includes the CISA, LCN, Schlage and Von Duprin brands.

Products

Our principal products by business segment include the following:



Climate SolutionsAftermarket parts and serviceDiesel-powered temperature control systemsAir cleanersDisplay merchandisersAir conditionersFurnacesAir exchangersHeat pumpsAir handlersHumidifiersAirside and terminal devicesInstallation contractingApplied systemsPackage heating and cooling systemsAuxiliary idle reductionRefrigerated containersAuxiliary temperature managementRefrigeration and electrical housesBoilersRefrigeration systemsBuilding management systemsSurface and air sanitationBus and rail HVAC systemsThermostats/controlsCoils and condensersUnitary systemsContainers and gensetsVehicle-powered truck refrigeration systemsControl systemsWalk-in coolers and freezersCryogenic temperature control systems



Residential
SolutionsAir cleanersFurnacesAir conditionersHeat pumpsAir exchangersHumidifiersAir handlersPackage heating and cooling systemsBoilersPortable security productsDoor locks, latches and locksetsThermostats/controlsElectrical security productsUnitary systemsElectronic access-control systems



Industrial
TechnologiesAir and electric toolsFluid-handling equipmentAir balancersGolf vehiclesAir compressors & accessoriesLubrication equipmentAir motorsMaterial handling equipmentAir treatmentMicroturbinesBlowersPiston pumpsDiaphragm pumpsUtility vehiclesEngine-starting systems









Security
TechnologiesAutomatic doorsDoors and door frames (steel)Biometric access control systemsElectrical security productsDoor closers and controlsElectronic access-control systemsDoor locks, latches and locksetsExit devices

These products are sold primarily under our name and under other names including American Standard®, CISA®, Club Car®, Hussmann®, LCN®, Schlage®, Thermo King®, Von Duprin®and Trane®.

Competitive Conditions

Our products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. Due to the diversity of these
products and the variety of markets served, we encounter a wide variety of competitors that vary by product line. They include well-established regional or specialized competitors, as well as larger U.S. and non-U.S. corporations or divisions of
larger companies.

The principal methods of competition in these markets relate to price, quality, delivery, service and support, technology
and innovation. We believe that we are one of the leading manufacturers in the world of HVAC systems and services, air compression systems, transport temperature control products, refrigerated display merchandisers, refrigeration systems and
controls, air tools, and golf and utility vehicles. In addition, we believe we are a leading supplier in U.S. markets for architectural hardware products, mechanical locks and electronic and biometric access-control technologies.

Distribution

Our products are distributed
by a number of methods, which we believe are appropriate to the type of product. U.S. sales are made through branch sales offices and through distributors, dealers and large retailers across the country. Non-U.S. sales are made through numerous
subsidiary sales and service companies with a supporting chain of distributors throughout the world.

Customers

We have no major customers that accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenues in 2009, 2008 or 2007. No material part of our business is
dependent upon a single customer or a small group of customers; therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a material adverse effect on our operations.

Raw Materials

We manufacture many of the components included in our products, which
requires us to employ a wide variety of raw materials. Principal raw materials, such as steel, copper and aluminum, are purchased from a large number of independent sources around the world. In the past, higher prices for some raw materials,
particularly steel and non-ferrous metals, have caused pricing pressures in some of our businesses; we have historically been able to pass certain of these cost increases on to customers in the form of price increases.

We believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for the foreseeable future. There have been no raw material shortages which have
had a material adverse effect on our businesses. However, significant changes in certain material costs may have an adverse impact on our costs and operating margins. To mitigate this potential impact, we enter into long-term supply contracts in
order to manage our exposure to potential supply disruptions.

Working Capital

We manufacture products that usually must be readily available to meet our customer’s rapid delivery requirements. Therefore, we maintain an adequate
level of working capital to support our business needs and our customers’ requirements. Such working capital requirements are not, however, in the opinion of management, materially different from those experienced by our major competitors. Our
sales and payment terms are generally similar to those of our competitors.









Research and Development

We engage in research and development activities in an effort to introduce new products, enhance existing products effectiveness, increase
safety, improve ease of use and reliability as well as expand the various applications for which our products may be appropriate. In addition, we continually evaluate developing technologies in areas that we believe will enhance our business for
possible investment or acquisition. We anticipate that we will continue to make significant expenditures for research and development activities as we look to maintain and improve our competitive position. Research and development expenditures,
including qualifying engineering costs, were $257.4 million in 2009, $204.6 million in 2008 and $128.6 million in 2007.

Patents and
Licenses

We own numerous patents and patent applications, and are licensed under others. Although in aggregate we consider our patents and
licenses to be valuable to our operations, we do not believe that our business is materially dependent on a single patent or license or any group of them. In our opinion, engineering, production skills and experience are more responsible for our
market position than our patents and/or licenses.

Operations by Geographic Area

More than 35% of our 2009 net revenues were derived outside the U.S. and we sold products in more than 100 countries. Therefore, the attendant risks of
manufacturing or selling in a particular country, such as nationalization and establishment of common markets, would not be expected to have a significant effect on our non-U.S. operations. For a discussion of risks attendant to our non-U.S.
operations, see “Risk Factors – Currency exchange rate and commodity price fluctuations may adversely affect our results,” “Risk Factors – Our global operations subject us to economic risks,” in Item 1A and
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Item 7A.

Backlog

Our approximate backlog of orders, believed to be firm, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were as follows:



Dollar amounts in millions20092008Climate Solutions$1,232.1$1,259.5Residential Solutions43.445.4Industrial Technologies341.6367.7Security Technologies160.4166.1Total$1,777.5$1,838.7

These backlog figures are based on orders received. While the major portion of our products are built in advance of order and either shipped or assembled from stock, orders for specialized machinery or
specific customer application are submitted with extensive lead times and are often subject to revision, deferral, cancellation or termination. We expect to ship substantially the entire backlog at December 31, 2009 during 2010.

Environmental Matters

We continue to be
dedicated to an environmental program intended to reduce the utilization and generation of hazardous materials during the manufacturing process as well as to remediate identified environmental concerns. As to the latter, we are currently engaged in
site investigations and remediation activities to address environmental cleanup from past operations at current and former manufacturing facilities.

We are sometimes a party to environmental lawsuits and claims and have received notices of potential violations of environmental laws and regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency and similar state authorities. We have been also
identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for cleanup costs associated with off-site waste disposal at federal Superfund and state remediation sites. For all such sites, there are other PRPs and, in most instances, our involvement is
minimal.

In estimating our liability, we have assumed that we will not bear the entire cost of remediation of any site to the exclusion of
other PRPs who may be jointly and severally liable. The ability of other PRPs to participate has been taken into account, based generally on the parties’ financial condition and probable contributions on a per site basis. Additional lawsuits
and claims involving environmental matters are likely to arise from time to time in the future.









During 2009, we spent $10.8
million for environmental remediation at sites presently or formerly owned or leased by us. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we have recorded reserves for environmental matters of $93.3 million and $100.9 million, respectively. We believe that
these expenditures and accrual levels will continue and may increase over time. Given the evolving nature of environmental laws, regulations and technology, the ultimate cost of future compliance is uncertain.

For a further discussion of our potential environmental liabilities, see also Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters and also Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.

Asbestos Matters

Certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company are named as defendants in asbestos-related lawsuits in
state and federal courts. In virtually all of the suits, a large number of other companies have also been named as defendants. The vast majority of those claims has been filed against either IR-New Jersey or Trane and generally allege injury caused
by exposure to asbestos contained in certain historical products sold by IR-New Jersey or Trane, primarily pumps, boilers and railroad brake shoes. Neither IR-New Jersey nor Trane was a producer or manufacturer of asbestos, however, some formerly
manufactured products utilized asbestos-containing components such as gaskets and packings purchased from third- party suppliers.

See also
the discussion under Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Environmental and Asbestos Matters and also Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.

Employees

As a result of the acquisition
of Trane in the second quarter of 2008, we increased our workforce by approximately 30,000 people. As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 57,000 people throughout the world.

Available Information

We file annual,
quarterly, and current reports, proxy statements, and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that are filed by us at http://www.sec.gov.

In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to all of the
foregoing reports, are made available free of charge on our Internet website (http://www.ingersollrand.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Board of Directors of
the Company has also adopted and posted in the Investor Relations section of its website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and charters for each of the Board’s standing committees.

Certifications

New York Stock Exchange
Annual Chief Executive Officer Certification

The Company’s Chief Executive Officer submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the
Annual CEO Certification as the Company’s compliance with the New York Stock Exchange’s corporate governance listing standards required by Section 303A.12 of the New York Stock Exchange’s listing standards.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302 Certification

The certifications of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have been filed as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.









