10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2009

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number 001-14920

McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED

(Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)

Maryland

52-0408290

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(IRS Employer

Identification No.)

18 Loveton Circle, Sparks, Maryland


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (410) 771-7301

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Not applicable.

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes

¨

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes

¨

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Check one:

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act).     Yes

¨

No

x

State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the
common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked prices of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.

The aggregate market value of the voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates at May 31, 2009: $224,351,586

The aggregate market value of the Non-Voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates at May 31, 2009: $3,597,996,913

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PART I

As used herein, references to “McCormick,” “we,” “us” and “our” are to McCormick & Company, Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries or, as the
context may require, McCormick & Company, Incorporated only.

Item 1.

Business

McCormick is a
global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices, herbs, seasonings, specialty foods and flavors to the entire food industry. Our major sales, distribution and production facilities are located in North America and Europe.
Additional facilities are based in Mexico, Central America, Australia, China, Singapore, Thailand and South Africa. McCormick & Company, Incorporated was formed in 1915 under Maryland law as the successor to a business established in 1889.

We operate in two business segments, consumer and industrial. The consumer segment sells spices, herbs,
extracts, seasoning blends, sauces, marinades, and specialty foods to the consumer food market under a variety of brands worldwide, including “McCormick

®

,” “Lawry’s

®

,” “Zatarain’s

®

,” “Old Bay

®

,

” “Thai Kitchen

®

,” “Simply Asia

®

,” “Ducros

®

,” “Schwartz

®

,”
“Vahine

®

,” “Silvo

®

,” “Club House

®

,” and “Billy Bee

®

.” The industrial segment sells seasoning blends, natural spices and herbs, wet flavors, coating systems, and compound flavors to multinational food manufacturers
and foodservice customers both directly and indirectly through distributors.

Please refer to pages 19 through 21, of our
Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009 for descriptions of our consumer and industrial businesses, and pages 6 through 13 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009 for a discussion of growth initiatives for the business. These pages of our
Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009, as well as all other page references to our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009 contained in this Form 10-K, are incorporated herein by reference.

For financial information about our business segments, please refer to pages 22 through 27, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
– Results of Operations” of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009, and Note 16, “Business Segments and Geographic Areas” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 61 and 62 of the Annual Report to
Stockholders for 2009.

For a discussion of our recent acquisition activity, please refer to page 30 “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis – Acquisitions” of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009, and Note 2, “Acquisitions” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 47 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.

Raw Materials

The most significant raw materials used by us in our business are dairy products, pepper, wheat, onion, capsicums, soybean oil, and garlic. Pepper and other spices and herbs are


generally sourced from countries other than the United States. Other raw materials, like cheese and onion, are primarily sourced from within the United States. We are not aware of any government
restrictions or other factors that would have a material adverse effect on the availability of these raw materials. Because the raw materials are agricultural products, they are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by
weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, and other factors beyond our control. We respond to this volatility in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, and
customer price adjustments.

Customers

McCormick’s products are sold directly to customers and also through brokers, wholesalers, and distributors. In the consumer segment,
products are resold to consumers through a variety of retail outlets, including grocery, mass merchandise, warehouse clubs, discount, and drug stores under a variety of brands. In the industrial segment, products are used by food and beverage
manufacturers as ingredients for their finished goods and by food service customers as ingredients for menu items to enhance the flavor of their foods. Customers for the industrial segment include food manufacturers and the food service industry
supplied both directly and indirectly through distributors.

We have a large number of customers for our products. In fiscal
years 2007 and 2008, sales to one of our customers, PepsiCo, Inc., accounted for approximately 10% of consolidated net sales. In fiscal year 2009, sales to two of our customers, PepsiCo, Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., each accounted for
approximately 11% of consolidated net sales. Sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 30% of consolidated net sales for the 2009 fiscal year.

The dollar amount of backlog orders for our business is not material to an understanding of our business, taken as a whole. No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or
termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government.

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents

McCormick owns a number of trademark registrations. Although in the aggregate these trademarks may be material to our
business, the loss of any one of those trademarks, with the exception of our “McCormick,” “Lawry’s,” “Zatarain’s,” “Club House,” “Ducros,” “Schwartz,” and “Vahine,”
trademarks, would not have a material adverse effect on our business. The “McCormick” trademark is extensively used by us in connection with the sale of our food products in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. markets. The terms of the trademark
registrations are as prescribed by law and the registrations will be renewed for as long as we deem them to be useful.

We
have entered into a number of license agreements authorizing the use of our trademarks by affiliated and non-affiliated entities. The loss of these license agreements would not have a material adverse effect on our business. The term of the license
agreements is generally three to five years or until such time as either party terminates the agreement. Those agreements with specific terms are renewable upon agreement of the parties.


We also own various patents, none of which individually are viewed as material to our
business.

Seasonality

Due to seasonal factors inherent in McCormick’s business, our sales, income, and cash from operations generally are lower in the first two quarters of the fiscal year, increase in the third quarter
and are significantly higher in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. This seasonality reflects customer and consumer buying patterns, primarily in the consumer segment.

Working Capital

In order to meet increased demand for our consumer products during our fourth quarter, McCormick usually builds its inventories during the third quarter of the fiscal year. We generally finance working
capital items (inventory and receivables) through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of our liquidity and capital resources, see Note 6 “Financing
Arrangements” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 48 and 49 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009, and the “Liquidity and Financial Condition” section of “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis” on pages 27 through 30 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.

Competition

McCormick competes in a geographic market that is international and highly competitive. Our strategies for competing in each of our segments
include a focus on price and value, product quality and innovation, and superior service. Additionally, in the consumer segment, we focus on brand recognition and loyalty, effective advertising, promotional programs, and the identification and
satisfaction of consumer preferences. For further discussion, see pages 19 through 21 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.

Research and Development

Many of McCormick’s products are prepared from confidential formulas
developed by our research laboratories and product development teams, as well as from, in some cases, customer proprietary formulas. Expenditures for research and development were $48.9 million in 2009, $51.0 million in 2008, and $49.3 million in
2007. The amount spent on customer-sponsored research activities is not material to us.

Environmental Regulations

The cost of compliance with federal, state, and local provisions related to protection of the environment has had no
material effect on McCormick’s business. There were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in fiscal year 2009 and there are no material expenditures planned for such purposes in fiscal year 2010.


Employees

McCormick had approximately 7,500 full time employees worldwide as of December 31, 2009. We believe our relationship with employees to
be good. We have no collective bargaining contracts in the United States. At our foreign subsidiaries, approximately 1,300 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or similar arrangements.

Financial Information about Geographic Locations

For information on the net sales and long-lived assets of McCormick by geographic area, see Note 16, “Business Segments and Geographic Areas” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on
pages 61 and 62 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.

Foreign Operations

McCormick is subject in varying degrees to certain risks typically associated with a global business, such as local economic and market
conditions, restrictions on investments, royalties and dividends, and exchange rate fluctuations. Approximately 38% of sales in fiscal year 2009 were from non-U.S. operations. For information on how McCormick manages these risks, see the
“Market Risk Sensitivity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 31 through 33 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.

Forward-Looking Information

For a discussion of forward-looking
information, see the “Forward-Looking Information” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on page 36 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.

Available Information

Our principal corporate internet website address is: www.mccormickcorporation.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC maintains an Internet web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding McCormick. Our website also includes our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Ethics Policy and charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of
Directors.


Item 1A.

Risk Factors

The
following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you buy our Common Stock or Common Stock Non-Voting, you should know that making such an
investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have been highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could
be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.

Damage to Our Reputation or Brand Name, Loss of Brand Relevance or Increase in Private Label Use by Customers or Consumers Could Negatively Impact Us.

Our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. In order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous
quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure conformity to specification and compliance with law. We also continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to
increase awareness and relevance of our brand through effective marketing and other measures. A serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer
relationships, or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brand, which may lead to customers or consumers purchasing other brands or private label brands that may or may not be manufactured by us, could have a material negative impact on
our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of branded and private label product offerings. If a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label, it could have a
significant impact on our consumer business.

The Consolidation of Customers May Put Pressures on Our Operating Margins
and Profitability.

Our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have consolidated in
recent years and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the U.S., the European Union, and other major markets. Such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated
customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products, and shifting shelf space
currently used for our products to private label products. These factors and others could have an adverse impact on our future sales growth and profitability.


Issues Regarding Procurement of Raw Materials May Negatively Impact Us.

Our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing
and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. The most significant raw materials used by us in our business are dairy products, pepper, wheat, onion, capsicums, soybean oil, and garlic.
While future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, and customer price
adjustments. We have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. Any actions taken in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. Therefore, we
cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results.

In addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the availability risk of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, political unrest in the producing countries, changes
in governmental agricultural programs, and other factors beyond our control. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, or operating results.

Further, political, socio-economic, and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities, in
developing countries create risks for food safety. Although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will
not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results.

Our Profitability May Suffer as a
Result of Competition in Our Markets.

The food industry is intensely competitive. Competition in our product
categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. From time to time, we may need to
reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures. Such pressures also may impair our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases.

Our Operations may be Impaired as a Result of Disasters, Business Interruptions or Similar Events.

A natural disaster such as an earthquake, fire, flood, or severe storm, or a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack, an epidemic
affecting our operating activities, major facilities, or employees’ and customers’ health, or a computer system failure, could cause an interruption or delay in our business and loss of inventory and/or data or render us unable to accept
and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us
from delivering products in a timely manner.


We cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues
we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. In the event that an earthquake, natural
disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely
manner, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed.

We May Not Be Able to
Successfully Consummate Proposed Acquisitions or Divestitures or Integrate Acquired Businesses.

From time to time, we
may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. These potential acquisitions and divestitures may present financial, managerial, and operational challenges, including diversion of
management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or
sellers. In addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. If we are unable to consummate
such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected.

Our Foreign Operations are Subject to Additional Risks.

We operate our business and market our products internationally. In fiscal year 2009, 38% of our sales were generated in foreign countries.
Our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with U.S. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign
jurisdictions, and other economic or political uncertainties. Additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. All of these risks could result in
increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect our profitability.

Fluctuations in
Foreign Currency Markets May Negatively Impact Us.

We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following
main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of
these investments. Primary exposures include the British pound sterling versus the Euro, and the U.S. dollar versus the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi, and Thai baht. We routinely
enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. However, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency
exchange changes. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position, or operating results.


Increases in Interest Rates May Negatively Impact Us.

We had total outstanding short-term borrowings of approximately $101.2 million at an average interest rate of approximately 0.4% on
November 30, 2009. Our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. We also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and
variable rate debt. We utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. We do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor
are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. Our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. However, our use of these instruments
may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, or operating
results.

The Deterioration of Credit and Capital Markets May Adversely Affect our Access to Sources of Funding.

We rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our
seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. If any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of
seasonal working capital requirements. The Company engages in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. During these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to
perform on their commitments. In addition, management periodically reviews our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services, and other aspects of the relationships. Based on these
communications and our monitoring activities, management believes the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote.

In addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. In the event we need to access the capital markets or other
sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. Our inability to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us could have an adverse
impact on our operations, financial condition, and liquidity.

We Face Risks Associated With Certain Pension Assets and
Obligations.

We hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a
rabbi trust for our U.S. non-qualified pension plan. Deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, could cause (or increase) an


underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. An obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce
the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity.

The Global Financial Downturn Exposes Us to Credit Risks from Customers and Counterparties.

Consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. In addition, competition has increased with the growth in
alternative channels through our customer base. These factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. Current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly
leveraged. A significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect
receivables. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.

Properties

Our principal
executive offices and primary research facilities are owned and are located in suburban Baltimore, Maryland.

The following is
a list of our principal manufacturing properties, all of which are owned except for the facilities in Commerce, California and Melbourne, Australia, and a portion of the facility in Littleborough, England, which are leased:

United States:

Hunt Valley, Maryland – consumer and industrial (3 principal plants)

Gretna, Louisiana – consumer

South Bend, Indiana – industrial

Atlanta, Georgia – industrial

Commerce, California – consumer

Irving, Texas – industrial

Canada:

London, Ontario – consumer and industrial

Mexico:

Cuautitlan de Romero Rubio – industrial


United Kingdom:

Haddenham, England – consumer and industrial

Littleborough, England – consumer and industrial

France:

Carpentras – consumer

Monteux – consumer

Australia:

Melbourne – consumer and industrial

China:

Guangzhou – consumer and industrial

Shanghai – consumer and industrial

In addition to distribution facilities
and warehouse space available at our manufacturing facilities, we lease regional distribution facilities in Belcamp, Maryland; Salinas, California; Irving, Texas; Mississauga and London, Ontario Canada; and Genvilliers, France and own distribution
facilities in Monteux, France. We also own, lease, or contract other properties used for manufacturing consumer and industrial products and for sales, warehousing, distribution, and administrative functions.

We believe our plants are well maintained and suitable for their intended use. We further believe that these plants generally have adequate
capacity and can accommodate seasonal demands, changing product mixes, and additional growth.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

There
are no material pending legal proceedings in which we or any of our subsidiaries is a party or of which any of our or their property is the subject.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year 2009.


PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

We have disclosed in Note 18, “Selected Quarterly Data (Unaudited)” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 63 of
our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009, the information relating to the market price and dividends paid on our classes of common stock. The market price of our common stock at the close of business on December 31, 2009 was $36.57 per share
for the Common Stock and $36.62 per share for the Common Stock Non-Voting.

Our Common Stock and Common Stock Non-Voting are
listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). The approximate number of holders of our Common Stock based on record ownership as of December 31, 2009 was as follows:

Title of Class

Approximate Number

of Record Holders

Common Stock, no par value

2,200

Common Stock Non-Voting, no par value

10,400

McCormick did not purchase Common Stock or Common Stock Non-Voting during the fourth
quarter of 2009.

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

This information is set forth on the line items titled “Net sales,” “Operating income,” “Earnings per share – Diluted,” “Common dividends declared,” “Long-term debt” and “Total
assets” in the “Historical Financial Summary” on page 64 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009, which line items are incorporated by reference. See also Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” on pages 44
through 47 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This information is set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 19 through 36 of our Annual Report to
Stockholders for 2009.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

This information is set forth in the “Market Risk Sensitivity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 31 through 33 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for
2009, and in Note 7 “Financial Instruments” on pages 49 through 52 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements and supplementary data are included on pages 40 through 64 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009. The report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm, on such financial statements is included on pages 38 and 39 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009. The supplemental schedule for 2007, 2008 and 2009 is included on page 20 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The report of
Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, on such supplemental schedule is included on page 19 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The unaudited quarterly data is included in Note 18, “Selected Quarterly Data (Unaudited)” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 63 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for
2009.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management’s report on our internal control over financial reporting and the report of our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on internal control over financial reporting are included on
pages 38 and 39 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009. No change occurred in our “internal control over financial reporting” (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)) during our last fiscal quarter which has materially affected or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

Other Information

On
January 26, 2010, the Board of Directors approved amendments to our By-Laws. The amendments, among other things, amend the advance notice provisions of the By-Laws to require stockholders who intend to submit a director nomination or other business
before a meeting of stockholders to include, in addition to other information concerning any such director nominee or stockholder,

•

Certain details about all ownership interests in our securities by the stockholder and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination or proposal
is made, including any derivative or short positions, profit or other economic interests, options, hedging transactions or borrowed or loaned shares,

•

An agreement for any director nominee to abide by applicable confidentiality, governance, conflicts, stock ownership and trading policies of ours, and

•

A representation to update that information as of the record date of the meeting no later than 10 days after the record date.

The remaining amendments to the By-Laws are primarily clerical in nature and designed to update our By-Laws
and conform with standard practices. These additional amendments, among other things,

•

Provide that the chairman of a meeting of stockholders, or the Board of Directors, may appoint one or more inspectors to act at any meeting.

•

Provide that, in addition to being the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President of the Company may also be the Chief Executive Officer.

•

Provide that any officer appointed by another officer may be removed by such appointing officer. Prior to the amendment an officer could not remove a
subordinate officer with the approval of the Board of Directors.

•

Provide for easier means for replacement of mutilated, lost or destroyed stock certificates by permitting the Board of Directors to delegate such power
to the officers or agents of the Company.

•

Update the indemnification provision to remove outdated language and clarify that repeal or modification of the provisions shall not adversely affect
the rights of persons entitled to indemnification at the time of the amendment.

This description is
qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amended and restated Bylaws filed as an Exhibit to this Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.


PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Information responsive to this item is set forth in the sections titled “Corporate Governance,” “Election of Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” in our 2010 Proxy Statement, incorporated by reference herein, to be filed within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year.

In addition to the executive officers described in the 2010 Proxy Statement incorporated by reference in this Item 10 of this Report, the following individuals are also executive officers of
McCormick: Paul C. Beard, W. Geoffrey Carpenter, Kenneth A. Kelly, Jr., and Cecile K. Perich.

Mr. Beard is 55 years old
and, during the last five years, has held the following positions with McCormick: March 2008 to present – Senior Vice President, Finance & Treasurer; March 2002 to March 2008 – Vice President, Finance & Treasurer.

Mr. Carpenter is 57 years old and, during the last five years, has held the following positions with
McCormick: December 2008 to present – Vice President, General Counsel, & Secretary; April 1996 to November 2008 – Associate General Counsel & Assistant Secretary.

Mr. Kelly is 55 years old and, during the last five years, has held the following positions with McCormick: March 2008 to present
– Senior Vice President & Controller; February 2000 to March 2008 – Vice President & Controller.

Ms. Perich is 58 years old and, during the last five years, has held the following positions with McCormick: February 2007 to present – Vice President – Human Relations; January 1997 to February 2007 – Vice President
– Human Relations, U.S. Industrial Group.

We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to all employees, including our
principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, and our Board of Directors. A copy of the code of ethics is available on our internet website at www.mccormickcorporation.com. We will satisfy the disclosure
requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding any material amendment to our code of ethics, and any waiver from a provision of our code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal
accounting officer, or persons performing similar functions, by posting such information on our website at the internet website address set forth above.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Information responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections titled “Compensation of Directors,” “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Compensation Committee Report,” “Summary
Compensation Table,” “Grants of Plan-Based Awards,” “Narrative to the Summary Compensation Table,” “Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End,” “Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Last Fiscal Year,”
“Pension Benefits,” “Non-


Qualified Deferred Compensation,” “Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control,” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” and
“Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the 2010 Proxy Statement.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Information responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections titled “Principal Stockholders,”
“Election of Directors” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in the 2010 Proxy Statement.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Information responsive to this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled “Corporate Governance” in the 2010
Proxy Statement.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Information responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section titled “Report of Audit Committee and Fees of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in the 2010
Proxy Statement.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this Report:

1. The consolidated financial statements for McCormick & Company, Incorporated and subsidiaries which are listed in the Table of Contents appearing on page 20 of this Report.

2. The financial statement schedule required by Item 8 of this Form 10-K which is listed in the appearing on page 20 of this Report.

3. The exhibits that are filed as a part of this Form 10-K and required
by Item 601 of Regulation S-K and Item 15(c) of this Form 10-K are listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index at pages 21 through 24 of this Report.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, McCormick has duly caused this report on
Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of McCormick and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons, being a
majority of the Board of Directors of McCormick & Company, Incorporated, on the date indicated:


TABLE OF CONTENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION

Included in our 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, the following consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in Item 8*:

Consolidated Income Statement for the years ended November 30, 2009, 2008 & 2007

Consolidated Balance Sheet, November 30, 2009 & 2008

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the years ended November 30, 2009, 2008 & 2007

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended November 30, 2009, 2008 & 2007

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Included in Part IV of this Annual
Report:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule

Supplemental Financial Schedule:

II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Schedules other than those listed above are omitted
because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required or because the information called for is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

*

Pursuant to Rule 12b-23 issued by the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, a copy of the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders of McCormick
for its fiscal year ended November 30, 2009 is being furnished with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of

McCormick & Company, Incorporated

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of McCormick & Company,
Incorporated as of November 30, 2009 and 2008, and for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2009, and have issued our report thereon dated January 28, 2010 (incorporate by reference into this Annual Report (Form
10-K)). Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a) of this Annual Report (Form 10-K). This schedule is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on
our audits.

In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/
Ernst & Young LLP

Baltimore, Maryland

January 28, 2010


Supplemental Financial Schedule II Consolidated

McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(IN MILLIONS)

Notes: None


EXHIBIT INDEX

Filed as Exhibit 10(xi) is the Asset Purchase Agreement (“APA”) between McCormick and Conopco, Inc., pursuant to which McCormick
purchased the assets of the Lawry’s business from Conopco, Inc. The APA has been filed to provide investors and security holders with information regarding its terms. It is not intended to provide any other factual information about
McCormick or Conopco, Inc. The APA contains representations and warranties the parties thereto made to and solely for the benefit of each other, and such representations and warranties may be subject to standards of materiality applicable to
the contracting parties that differ from those applicable to investors. The assertions embodied in those representations and warranties are qualified by information in confidential disclosure schedules that McCormick delivered in connection
with the execution of the APA. Accordingly, investors and security holders should not rely on the representations and warranties as characterizations of the actual state of facts. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the
representations and warranties may change after the date of the APA, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in McCormick’s disclosures.

The following exhibits are attached or incorporated herein by reference:




*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

24