10-K


a06-3546_110k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2005

Commission file number 001-14920

McCORMICK & COMPANY,
INCORPORATED

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Not applicable.

Indicate
By check mark if the registrant is a well-know seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.  Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Act).  Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Act).  Yes

o

No

ý

State
the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity
was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of
the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter.

The aggregate market value of the
voting common equity held by non-affiliates at May 31, 2005: $333,132,269.

The aggregate market value of the
non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates at May 31, 2005: $4,004,841,587.

Indicate
the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes of common
stock, as of the latest practicable date.

Class

Number of Shares Outstanding

Date

Common Stock

14,435,607

December 30, 2005

Common Stock Non-Voting

118,176,901

December

30, 2005

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE

PART I

As used herein, the “Registrant” means McCormick &
Company, Incorporated and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise
requires.

Item 1.  Business

The Registrant, a diversified specialty food company, is
a global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices,
herbs, seasonings and other flavors to the entire food industry. The Registrant
was formed in 1915 under Maryland law as the successor to a business
established in 1889.

The Registrant operates in two business segments:
consumer and industrial.

The Registrant sold its packaging segment
during the third quarter of 2003. The consumer segment sells spices, herbs,
extracts, seasoning blends, sauces, marinades and specialty foods to the
consumer food market under a variety of brands, including “McCormick” and “Zatarain’s”
in the US, “Ducros” and “Silvo” in continental Europe, “Club House” in Canada
and “Schwartz” in the U.K. The industrial segment sells seasoning blends,
spices, herbs, wet flavors, compound flavors and coating systems to food manufacturers
and the food service industry, served both directly and indirectly through
distributors.

Please
refer to pages 14, 15 and 21, for discussions on our Consumer and
Industrial businesses, and page 5, “A Discussion with Bob Lawless,” of the
Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005 for a description of the
business. Such pages of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for
2005 are incorporated herein by reference.

For
financial information about the Registrant’s business segments, please refer to
pages 22 through 27, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis,” and Note 16, “Business
Segments and Geographic Areas” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements on pages 54 and 55 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for
2005, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.

Raw Materials

The most
significant raw materials to the Registrant are cheese, packaging supplies, pepper,
capsicums, garlic, onion and vanilla.  Black
pepper, vanilla beans and other spices and herbs are generally sourced from
countries other than the United States. The Registrant is not aware of any
government restrictions or other factors that would have a material adverse
effect on the availability of these raw materials. Because the raw materials
are agricultural products, they may be subject to price volatility caused by
weather and other unpredictable factors. 
The Registrant responds to this volatility in a number of ways including
strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery
and customer price adjustments.

Customers

The
Registrant’s products are sold directly to customers and also through brokers,
wholesalers and distributors. In the consumer segment, products are generally
resold to consumers through grocery, mass merchandise, discount and drug
stores. In the industrial segment, products are used by food and beverage
manufacturers as ingredients for their finished goods and by food service
customers as ingredients for menu items to enhance the flavor of their foods.
Customers for the industrial segment include food processors and the food
service industry, which are supplied both directly and through distributors.

The Registrant has a large number of customers for its
products.  No single customer accounted
for as much as 10% of consolidated net sales in 2005. Sales to the Registrant’s
five largest customers represented approximately 29.2% of consolidated net
sales.

The
dollar amount of backlog orders of the Registrant’s business is not material to
an understanding of the Registrant’s business, taken as a whole.  No material portion of the Registrant’s
business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or
subcontracts at the election of the U.S. Government.

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents

The Registrant owns a number of trademark
registrations.  Although in the aggregate
these trademarks may be material to the Registrant’s business, the loss of any
one of those trademarks, with the exception of the Registrant’s “McCormick,” “Zatarain’s,”
“Schwartz,” “Club House” and “Ducros” 
trademarks, would not have a material adverse effect on the Registrant’s
business. The “McCormick” trademark is extensively used by the Registrant in
connection with the sale of virtually all of the Registrant’s food products
worldwide. The terms of the trademark registrations are as prescribed by law


and
the registrations will be renewed for as long as the Registrant deems them to
be useful.

The Registrant has entered into a number of license
agreements authorizing the use of its trademarks by affiliated and
non-affiliated entities. The loss of these license agreements would not have a
material adverse effect on the Registrant’s business.  The term of the license agreements is
generally 3 to 5 years or until such time as either party terminates the
agreement.  Those agreements with
specific terms are renewable upon agreement of the parties.

The Registrant owns various patents, but they are not
viewed as material to the Registrant’s business.

Seasonal Nature of Business

Due to seasonal factors inherent in the business, the
Registrant’s sales and income are lower in the first two quarters of the fiscal
year and increase in the third and fourth quarters. The seasonality reflects
customer and consumer buying patterns, primarily in the consumer segment.

Working Capital

In order
to meet increased demand for its consumer products during its fourth quarter,
the Registrant usually builds its inventories during the third quarter. The
Registrant generally finances working capital items (inventory and receivables)
through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the
issuance of commercial paper.  For a
description of the Registrant’s liquidity and capital resources, see Note 7 “Financing
Arrangements” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 47
and 48 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005, which pages are
incorporated by reference, and the “Financial Condition” section of “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis” on pages 27 through 29 of the Registrant’s Annual
Report to Stockholders for 2005, which pages are incorporated by
reference.

Competition

The
Registrant is a global leader in the manufacture and sale of spices, herbs,
extracts, seasonings and flavorings and competes in a geographic market that is
international and highly competitive. For further discussion, see pages 21
and 22 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005, which pages are
incorporated by reference.

Research
and Development

Many of
the Registrant’s products are prepared from confidential formulae developed by
its research laboratories and product development teams. Expenditures for
research and development were $42.1 million in 2005, $39.3 million in 2004 and
$33.2 million in 2003. The amount spent on customer-sponsored research
activities is not material.

Environmental Regulations

Compliance
with federal, state and local provisions related to protection of the
environment has had no material effect on the Registrant’s business. There were
no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in 2005
and there are no material expenditures planned for such purposes in 2006.


Employees

The
Registrant had approximately 8,000 employees worldwide as of December 31,
2005. The Registrant believes its relationship with employees to be good. The
Registrant has no collective bargaining contracts in the United States. At the
Registrant’s foreign subsidiaries, approximately 1,200 employees are covered by
collective bargaining agreements or similar arrangements.

Financial
Information About Geographic Locations

For
information on the net sales and long-lived assets of the Registrant, see “Geographic
Areas” within Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 54
and 55 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005, which pages are
incorporated by reference, and the “Market Risk Sensitivity” section of “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis” on pages 31 through 33 of the Registrant’s Annual
Report to Stockholders for 2005, which pages are incorporated by
reference.

Foreign Operations

The
Registrant is subject in varying degrees to certain risks typically associated
with a global business, such as local economic and market conditions,
restrictions on investments, royalties and dividends and exchange rate
fluctuations. Approximately 39% of net sales in 2005 were from international
operations.

Forward-Looking Information

For a
discussion of forward-looking information, see the “Forward-Looking Information”
section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on page 35 of the
Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005, which page is
incorporated by reference.

Available
Information

The Registrant’s Internet website address is:
www.mccormick.com. The Registrant makes available free of charge through its
website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act
as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed
with, or furnished to, the SEC.  The
Registrant’s website also includes the Registrant’s Corporate Governance
Guidelines, Business Ethics Policy and charters of its Audit Committee,
Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee.  These documents are also available in print
to any shareholder upon request.

Item 1A.  Risk Factors

The following are certain risk factors that could affect
the Registrant’s business, financial results and results of operations. These
risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the
forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ
materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you buy the
Registrant’s common stock, you should know that making such an investment
involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have
highlighted here are not the only ones that the Registrant faces.  If any of the risks actually occur, the
Registrant’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be
negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of the Registrant’s stock
could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.


Fluctuations In The Foreign Currency Markets May Negatively Impact
Us.

The Registrant is exposed to fluctuations in foreign
currency cash flows primarily related to raw material purchases. The Registrant
is also exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in
subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to
repatriation of these investments. Additionally, the Registrant is exposed to
volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars.
Primary exposures include the U.S. dollar versus the functional currencies of
our major markets (Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian
dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi and Japanese yen). On occasion, the
Registrant may enter into forward and option contracts to manage these foreign
currency risks. However, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate
the Registrant’s exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign
currency translation. Therefore, the Registrant cannot assure you that future
exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on its business,
financial position or operating results.

Increases In Interest Rates May Negatively Impact Us.

The Registrant has total outstanding short-term
borrowings of approximately $105.4 million at an average interest rate of
approximately 4.0% on November 30, 2005. The Registrant’s policy is to
manage our interest costs using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The
Registrant also uses interest rate swaps to achieve a desired proportion of
fixed and variable rate debt. The Registrant utilizes derivative financial
instruments to enhance its ability to manage risk, including interest rate
exposures that exist as part of its ongoing business operations. The Registrant
does not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor is it a party to any
leveraged derivative instrument. The Registrant’s use of derivative financial
instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management
and the utilization of written guidelines. However, its use of these
instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate its exposure to a decline in
operating results due to changes in interest rates. Therefore, the Registrant cannot
assure you that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative
impact on its business, financial position or operating results.

Price Fluctuations In The Commodity Markets May Negatively Impact
Us.

The Registrant purchases certain raw materials that are
subject to price volatility caused by weather and other unpredictable factors.
The most significant raw materials are cheese, packaging supplies, pepper,
capsicums, garlic and onion. While future movements of raw material costs are
uncertain, a variety of programs, including strategic raw material purchases,
purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments,
help it address this risk. Generally, the Registrant does not use derivatives
to manage the volatility related to this risk. Even if it did use such
instruments, however, their use might not effectively limit or eliminate its
exposure to a decline in operating results due to changes in commodity prices. Therefore,
the Registrant cannot assure you that future commodity price fluctuations will
not have a negative impact on its business, financial position or operating
results.

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff
Comments

None.


Item 2.  Properties

The
Registrant’s principal executive offices and primary research facilities are
owned and are located in suburban Baltimore, Maryland.

The following is a list of the Registrant’s principal
manufacturing properties, all of which are owned except for the facilities in
Commerce, California and Sydney, Australia, which are leased:

United States

Hunt Valley, Maryland – consumer and industrial

(4 principal plants)

Salinas, California – consumer and industrial

Commerce, California – consumer

Dallas, Texas – industrial

Atlanta, Georgia – industrial

South Bend, Indiana – industrial

Canada

London,
Ontario – consumer and industrial

Mexico

Cuautitlan
de Romero Rubio, Mexico – industrial

United
Kingdom

Haddenham,
England – consumer and industrial

Paisley,
Scotland – industrial

Littleborough,
England – consumer and industrial

France

Carpentras
– consumer and industrial

Monteux
- - consumer (2 principal plants)

The
Netherlands

Papendrecht
- - consumer

Australia

Melbourne
– consumer and industrial

Sydney
– consumer and industrial

China

Shanghai
– consumer and industrial

Guangzhou
– consumer and industrial

In
addition to distribution facilities and warehouse space available at its
manufacturing facilities, the Registrant leases regional distribution
facilities in Belcamp, Maryland, Salinas, California, and Dallas, Texas and
owns a distribution facility in Monteux, France.  The Registrant also owns, leases or contracts
several other properties used for manufacturing consumer and industrial
products and for sales, warehousing, distribution and administrative functions.


The Registrant believes its
plants are well maintained and suitable for their intended use. The Registrant
further believes that these plants generally have adequate capacity and can
accommodate seasonal demands, changing product mixes and certain additional
growth. Many additions and improvements have been made to these facilities over
the years and the plants’ manufacturing equipment includes equipment of the
latest type and technology.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

There are no material pending legal proceedings in which
the Registrant or any of its subsidiaries is a party or in which any of their
property is the subject.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to
a Vote of Security Holders

No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of
Registrant’s fiscal year 2005 to a vote of security holders.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

In
addition to the executive officers described in the Registrant’s Proxy
Statement for 2005 incorporated by reference in Item 10 of this Report, the
following individuals are also executive officers of the Registrant: Paul C.
Beard, Kenneth A. Kelly, Jr., Lawrence E. Kurzius, Charles T. Langmead, Robert
W. Skelton, Mark T. Timbie and Alan D. Wilson.

Mr. Beard
is 51 years old and has had the following work experience during the last five
years: 3/02 to present – Vice President, Finance & Treasurer; 1/00 to
3/02 – Vice President & General Manager, Global Restaurant Division.

Mr. Kelly is 51 years old and has had the following
work experience during the last five years: 2/00 to present – Vice President
and Controller; 7/97 to 2/00 – Vice President, Finance &
Administration/McCormick Schilling Division.

Mr. Kurzius is 48 years old and has had the
following work experience during the last five years: 9/05 to present – President,
U.S. Consumer Foods; 1/05

to 9/05 Vice President and General Manager,
Sales and Marketing; 1/97 to 12/04 Mr. Kurzius was President and CEO of
Zatarain’s Brands, Inc., which was acquired by McCormick in 2003.  Mr. Kurzius joined Zatarain’s in 1991.

Mr. Langmead
is 48 years old and has had the following work experience during the last five
years:  9/05 to present – President, U.S.
Industrial Group; 2/02 to 9/05 - Vice President & General Manager,
Food Service & Global Restaurant Divisions; 4/99 to 2/02 – Vice
President & General Manager, Food Service Division.

Mr. Skelton
is 58 years old and has had the following work experience during the last five
years: 11/02 to present – Senior Vice President, General Counsel &
Secretary; 6/97 to 11/02 - Vice President, General Counsel &
Secretary.

Mr. Timbie
is 51 years old and has had the following work experience during the last five
years: 9/05 to present – President, International; 1/04 to 9/05 – President,
International Consumer Products Group; 3/01 to 12/03 – President, McCormick
Canada; 10/99 to 2/01 – Vice President & General Manager, Perimeter
Group/Consumer Markets.


Mr. Wilson
is 48 years old and has had the following work experience during the last five
years: 9/05 to present – President, North American Consumer Foods and U.S.
Supply Chain; 1/03 to 9/05 – President, U.S. Consumer Foods; 3/01 to 12/02 –
Vice President & General Manager, Sales & Marketing; 12/98 to
2/01 – President, McCormick Canada.

PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The Registrant
has disclosed in Note 18, “Selected Quarterly Data (Unaudited)” of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 55 of the Registrant’s Annual
Report to Stockholders for 2005, which page is incorporated by reference,
the information relating to the market price and dividends paid on the
Registrant’s common stocks. The market price of the Registrant’s common stock
at the close of business on December 30, 2005 was $30.64 for the Common
Stock and $30.92 for the Common Stock Non-Voting.

The Registrant’s Common Stock Non-Voting and voting
Common Stock are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The
approximate number of holders of Common Stock of the Registrant based on record
ownership as of December 31, 2005 was as follows:

Title of Class

Approximate
  Number

of Record Holders

Common Stock, no par value

2,100

Common Stock Non-Voting, no
  par value

10,900

The
following table summarizes the Company’s purchases of Common Stock (CS) and
Common Stock Non-Voting (CSNV) during the fourth quarter of 2005:


ISSUER PURCHASES
OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Note:  During the quarter, the Company continued to
purchase against its $300 million authorization approved by the Board of
Directors in the fourth quarter of 2003, and completed all of its available
purchases under that authorization in October 2005.  In June 2005, the Board of Directors
approved an additional $400 million share repurchase authorization.  As of November 30, 2005, $362.1 million
remained of the $400 million authorization. 
In the absence of an acquisition, the Company expects that it will
complete all of its available purchases under this authorization by the end of
fiscal year 2007.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

This
information is set forth on the line items titled “Net sales-under EITF 01-09,”
“Net income from continuing operations,” “Earnings per share – Diluted -
Continuing operations,” “Common dividends declared,” “Long-term debt” and “Total
assets” for the years 2001 through 2005 in the “Historical Financial Summary”
on page 56 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005,
which line items are incorporated by reference. See also Note 1 “Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies” on pages 42 through 44 of the Registrant’s
Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005 and Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” on page 45
of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005, which pages are
incorporated by reference.

Item 7.  Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This information is set forth in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis” on pages 21 through 35 of the Registrant’s Annual
Report to Stockholders for 2005, which pages are incorporated by
reference.


Item 7A.  Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

This information is set forth in the “Market Risk
Sensitivity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 31
through 33 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005, which pages are
incorporated by reference, and in Note 8 “Financial Instruments” on pages 48
and 49 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005, which pages are
incorporated by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

The financial statements and supplementary data are
included on pages 38 through 56 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to
Stockholders for 2005, which pages are incorporated by reference. The
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm, on such financial statements is included on pages 36 and 37 of the
Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005, which page is
incorporated by reference. The supplemental schedule for 2003, 2004 and
2005 is included on page 15 of this Report on Form 10-K.

The
unaudited quarterly data is included in Note 18, “Selected Quarterly Data
(Unaudited)” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 55
of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005, which page is
incorporated by reference.

Item
9.  Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.  Controls
and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Registrant maintains a system of disclosure
controls and procedures that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that
information, which is required to be disclosed, is accumulated and communicated
to management in a timely manner. The Registrant’s principal executive officer
and principal financial officer evaluated as of November 30, 2005 the
effectiveness of this system of disclosure controls and procedures, and have
concluded that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
such date.

Internal
Control over Financial Reporting

Management’s
report on the Registrant’s internal controls over financial reporting and the
report of the Registrant’s Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
internal controls over financial reporting are included on page 36 of the
Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2005, which page is
incorporated by reference.

Certifications

The
certifications of the Registrant’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are
filed as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Additionally, as required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock
Exchange (“NYSE”) Listed Company Manual, the Registrant’s Chief Executive
Officer filed a


certification with the
NYSE on April 21, 2005 reporting that he was not aware of any violation by
us of the NYSE’s Corporate Governance listing standards.

Item
9B.  Other Information

None.

PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant

Information
responsive to this item is set forth in Part I of this Report in the section titled
“Executive Officers of the Registrant” and in the sections titled “Election of
Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance” in the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for 2006,
incorporated by reference herein, to be filed within 120 days after the end of
the Registrant’s fiscal year (the “2006 Proxy Statement”).

The Registrant has adopted a code of ethics that applies
to all employees, including its principal executive officer, principal
financial officer, principal accounting officer and its Board of Directors. A
copy of the code of ethics is available on the Registrant’s Internet website at
www.mccormick.com and is available in print to any shareholder upon request.
The Registrant intends to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 10 of Form 8-K
regarding an amendment to, or a waiver from, a provision of its code of ethics
that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer or persons performing similar functions, by
posting such information on its website at the Internet website address set
forth above.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Information
responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections
titled “Report on Executive Compensation,” “Summary Compensation Table,” “Compensation
of Directors,” “Pension Plan Table,” “Stock Options - Option Grants in Last
Fiscal Year,” “Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal
Year-End Option Values,” “Equity Compensation Plan Information,” “Mid-Term
Incentive Plan” and “Performance Graph – Shareholder Return” in the Registrant’s
2006 Proxy Statement.

Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Transactions

Information
responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections
titled “Principal Stockholders,” “Election of Directors” and “Equity
Compensation Plan Information” in the Registrant’s 2006 Proxy Statement.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions

Information
responsive to this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled
“Independence of Directors” in the Registrant’s 2006 Proxy Statement.


Item
14.  Principal Accountant Fees and
Services

Information
responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section titled
“Report of Audit Committee and Fees of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm” in the Registrant’s 2006 Proxy Statement.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules

(a)

The following documents are filed as a part of this
report:

1.

The consolidated financial statements for
McCormick & Company, Incorporated and subsidiaries which are listed in
the Table of Contents appearing on page 14 of this Report.

2.

The financial statement schedule required by
Item 8 of this Form 10-K is listed in the Table of Contents appearing on page 14
of this Report.

3.

The exhibits that are filed as a part
of this Form 10-K and required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K and Item 15(c) of
this Form 10-K are listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index at pages 16
through 20 of this Report.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report on Form 10-K to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons, being a majority of the Board of Directors of McCormick &
Company, Incorporated, on the date indicated:


TABLE OF CONTENTS AND RELATED
INFORMATION

Included in the Registrant’s 2005
Annual Report to Stockholders, the following consolidated financial statements
are incorporated by reference in Item 8*:

Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended November 30,
2005, 2004 & 2003

Consolidated Balance Sheet, November 30, 2005 &

Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended November 30, 2005, 2004 &

Consolidated
Statement of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended November 30, 2005,
2004 & 2003

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
- - Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
- - Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Included in Part IV of this
Annual Report:

Supplemental Financial Schedule:

II  - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Schedules other than those listed
above are omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are
required or because the information called for is included in the consolidated
financial statements or notes thereto.

*Pursuant
to Rule 12b-23 issued by the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended, a copy of the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders of the
Registrant for its fiscal year ended November 30, 2005 is being furnished
with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Supplemental Financial Schedule II
Consolidated

McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(IN MILLIONS) (1)

Notes:

(1)The table excludes
discontinued operations.


EXHIBIT INDEX





*  Portions of
this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential
treatment.

** Management contract or compensatory plan or
arrangement.

21