ITEM 1.Business



OVERVIEW



We are a global leader in the
design, development, manufacture and marketing of orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, biologics, dental implants and related surgical products. We also provide other healthcare related services. In this report, “Zimmer,”
“we,” “us,” “our” and similar words refer collectively to Zimmer Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Zimmer Holdings refers to the parent company only.

Zimmer Holdings was incorporated in Delaware in 2001. Our history dates to 1927, when Zimmer Manufacturing Company, a predecessor, was
founded in Warsaw, Indiana. On August 6, 2001, Zimmer Holdings was spun off from its former parent and became an independent public company.

CUSTOMERS, SALES AND MARKETING



Our primary customers include orthopaedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, oral surgeons, dentists, hospitals, stocking distributors, healthcare
dealers and, in their capacity as agents, healthcare purchasing organizations or buying groups. These customers range from large multinational enterprises to independent clinicians and dentists.

We have operations in more than 25 countries and market products in more than 100 countries, with corporate headquarters in Warsaw,
Indiana, and more than 100 manufacturing, distribution and warehousing and/or office facilities worldwide. We manage our operations through three major geographic segments — the Americas, which is comprised principally of the U.S. and includes
other North, Central and South American markets; Europe, which is comprised principally of Europe and includes the Middle East and Africa markets; and Asia Pacific, which is comprised primarily of Japan and Australia and includes other Asian and
Pacific markets.

We market and sell products through three principal channels: 1) direct to healthcare institutions, such as
hospitals or direct channel accounts; 2) through stocking distributors and healthcare dealers; and 3) directly to dental practices and dental laboratories. With direct channel accounts, inventory is generally consigned to sales agents or customers.
With sales to stocking distributors, healthcare dealers, dental practices and dental laboratories, title to product passes upon shipment or upon implantation of the product. Direct channel accounts represented approximately 80 percent of our net
sales in 2011. No individual direct channel account, stocking distributor, healthcare dealer, dental practice or dental laboratory accounted for more than 1 percent of our net sales for 2011.

We stock inventory in our warehouse facilities and retain title to consigned inventory in sufficient quantities so that products are
available when needed for surgical procedures. Safety stock levels are determined based on a number of factors, including demand, manufacturing lead times and quantities required to maintain service levels. We also carry

trade accounts receivable balances based on credit terms that are generally consistent with local market practices.

We utilize a network of sales associates, sales managers and support personnel, most of whom are employed or contracted by independent distributors and sales agencies. We invest a significant amount of
time and expense in training sales associates in how to use specific products and how to best inform surgeons of product features and uses. Sales force representatives must have strong technical selling skills and medical education to provide
technical support for surgeons.

In response to the different healthcare systems throughout the world, our sales and marketing
strategies and organizational structures differ by region. We utilize a global approach to sales force training, marketing and medical education to provide consistent, high quality service. Additionally, we keep current with key surgical
developments and other issues related to orthopaedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, dentists and oral surgeons and the medical procedures they perform.

Americas.The Americas is our largest geographic segment, accounting for $2,440.8 million, or 55 percent, of 2011 net sales, with the U.S. accounting for 93 percent of net
sales in this region. The U.S. sales force primarily consists of independent sales agents, most of whom sell products exclusively for Zimmer. Sales agents in the U.S. receive a commission on product sales and are responsible for many operating
decisions and costs. Sales commissions are accrued at the time of sale.

In this region, we contract with group purchasing
organizations and managed care accounts and have promoted unit growth by offering volume discounts to customer healthcare institutions within a specified group. Generally, we are designated as one of several preferred purchasing sources for
specified products, although members are not obligated to purchase our products. Contracts with group purchasing organizations generally have a term of three years, with extensions as warranted.

In the Americas, we monitor and rank independent sales agents across a range of performance metrics, including the achievement of certain
sales targets and maintenance of efficient levels of working capital.

Europe.The European
geographic segment accounted for $1,214.5 million, or 27 percent, of 2011 net sales, with France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom collectively accounting for 72 percent of net sales in the region. This segment
also includes other key markets, including Benelux, Nordic, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Our sales force in this segment is comprised of direct sales associates, commissioned agents, independent distributors and sales
support personnel. In Europe, we emphasize the advantages of our clinically proven, established designs and innovative solutions and new and enhanced materials and surfaces. In most European countries, healthcare is sponsored by the government and
therefore









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



government budgets have a role in healthcare spending, which can affect our sales in this segment.

Asia Pacific.The Asia Pacific geographic segment accounted for $796.5 million, or 18 percent, of 2011 net sales, with Japan being the largest market within this
segment, accounting for approximately 52 percent of the region’s sales. This segment also includes key markets such as Australia, New Zealand, Korea, China, Taiwan, India, Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia. In Japan and most countries
in the Asia Pacific region, we maintain a network of dealers, who act as order agents on behalf of hospitals in the region, and sales associates, who build and maintain relationships with orthopaedic surgeons, neurosurgeons and dental surgeons in
their markets. These sales associates cover over 7,000 hospitals in the region. The knowledge and skills of these sales associates play a critical role in providing service, product information and support to surgeons. In November 2011 we announced
that we will establish a new research and development center in Beijing, China, which will focus on products and technologies to meet the unique needs of Asian patients and their healthcare providers.

SEASONALITY



Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, as many of our products are used in elective procedures, which typically decline during the
summer months and can increase at the end of the year once annual deductibles have been attained on health insurance plans.

DISTRIBUTION



We operate
distribution facilities domestically in Warsaw, Indiana; Dover, Ohio; Statesville, North Carolina; Memphis, Tennessee; Carlsbad, California; and Austin, Texas and internationally in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, China,
Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand and the United Kingdom.

We generally ship our orders via expedited courier. We do not consider our backlog of firm orders to be material to an understanding
of our business.

PRODUCTS



Our products include orthopaedic
reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, biologics, dental implants and related surgical products.

We
utilize our exclusiveTrabecular Metal™Technology across the majority of our product categories.Trabecular MetalMaterial is a structural biomaterial with a cellular architecture that resembles bone and approximates its physical and mechanical properties more closely than other prosthetic materials. The highly porous trabecular
configuration is conducive to more normal bone formation and bone in-growth.Trabecular MetalImplants are fabricated using elemental tantalum metal and a patented vapor

deposition technique that creates a metallic strut configuration resembling cancellous bone with nano-textured surface features.

Orthopaedic Reconstructive Implants

Knee Implants

Total knee replacement surgeries typically include a femoral component, a patella (knee cap), a tibial tray and an articular surface
(placed on the tibial tray). Knee replacement surgeries include first-time, or primary, joint replacement procedures and revision procedures for the replacement, repair or enhancement of an implant or component from a previous procedure. Knee
implants are designed to accommodate different levels of ligament stabilization of the joint. While some knee implant designs, called cruciate retaining (CR) designs, require the retention of the posterior cruciate ligament, other designs, called
posterior stabilized (PS) and ultracongruent (UC) designs, provide joint stability without the posterior cruciate ligament. There are also procedures for partial reconstruction of the knee, which treat limited knee degeneration and involve the
replacement of only one side, or compartment, of the knee with a unicompartmental knee prosthesis.

We offer a wide range of
products for specialized knee procedures, including the following:

NexGen®Complete Knee Solution.The number one selling knee brand in the world, theNexGenKnee product line is a comprehensive system for knee replacement surgery which has significant application across the continuum of care in aspects of primary and revision knee arthroplasty, including CR, PS and revision procedures. TheNexGenKnee System offers joint stability, sizing and performance options in a unified system of interchangeable components that can be tailored to an individual patient. TheNexGenKnee System provides surgeons with complete and
versatile knee instrument options spanning multiple surgeon and treatment philosophies. The breadth and versatility of theNexGenKnee System allows surgeons to transition from one type of implant to another during surgery, according to the
respective needs of the patient, and to support current surgical philosophies. In national joint replacement registries, databases that track the performance of artificial joints implanted in many thousands of patients,NexGenKnee
replacement products are consistently reported to have among the lowest rates of revision surgeries for the most frequently used knee systems.

TheNexGenCR product line is designed to be used in conjunction with a functioning posterior cruciate ligament. Similar to the posterior stabilized design, theNexGenCR-Flex
Fixed Bearing Knee is designed to provide a greater range of motion for patients who require deep bending in their activities of daily living. TheNexGenCR-Flex Femoral Components offer a tissue balancing (flexion balancing) solution which
allows the surgeon to adjust component sizing and balance and stabilize the implant without removing additional bone or wasting critical procedure time.









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



TheNexGen Legacy®Posterior Stabilized Knee product line provides stability in the absence of the posterior cruciate ligament. The PS
capabilities can be augmented via the use of aNexGen LegacyPosterior Stabilized Flex (LPS-Flex) Knee, a high-flexion implant that has the potential to accommodate knee flexion up to 155-degrees range of motion for patients whose lifestyle
and body type demand and can accommodate this performance standard. With ourNexGenLPS-Flex Mobile Knee, we are one of only two companies that can offer a mobile-bearing total knee treatment option in the U.S. market.

Gender Solutions®NexGenFemorals represent the first knee implants specifically shaped to offer fit and function optimized for the unique anatomical considerations more
commonly seen in female patients.Gender™Implants are an important strategic focus, as more than half of total knee arthroplasty patients are female.Gender SolutionsFemorals are available in bothNexGenCR-Flex and
LPS-Flex configurations. The concept of advancing implant design through customization based on anatomy or other patient characteristics has manifested in rapidly expanding gender technologies across the continuum of our products and into other
important brands in our growing portfolio.

TheNexGenRevision Knee product line consists of several different products
that are designed to provide clinical solutions to surgeons for various revision situations, including multiple constraint levels for ligament and soft tissue inefficiencies and a bone augmentation implant system made from ourTrabecular
MetalTechnology material. These augments are designed to address significant bone loss in revision surgery while allowing natural bone to reconstruct within the implant construct.

We offer improved polyethylene performance in theNexGenKnee System with our conventional polyethylene andProlong®Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene, which offers reduced wear and resistance to oxidation, pitting
and cracking.ProlongHighly Crosslinked Polyethylene is available in designs compatible with bothNexGenCR-Flex and LPS-Flex Femoral Components.

Natural-Knee®II System.TheNatural-KneeII System consists of a range of interchangeable, anatomically designed implants which include a
proprietaryCSTi™ Cancellous-Structured Titanium Porous Coating option for stable fixation in active patients.

Gender Solutions Natural-KneeFlex System.    TheGender Solutions Natural-KneeFlex System adds our
High Flex andGender SolutionsKnee design concepts to theNatural-KneeSystem. TheGender Solutions Natural-KneeFlex System recognizes that two distinct populations exist in total knee arthroplasty (female and male) and offers
two distinct implant shapes for enhanced fit. The system accommodates high flexion capacity up to 155 degrees. The system features the proven clinical success of our asymmetric tibial plate,CSTiPorous Coating,ProlongHighly
Crosslinked Polyethylene and ultracongruent articular surface.

Innex®Total Knee System.    TheInnexKnee System offers fixed bearing and mobile bearing knee components all designed within the same system
philosophy. While theInnexKnee System is best known for its mobile bearing knee offering and the availability of differing levels of articular constraint, theInnexRevision Knee andInnex Gender SolutionsKnee components make
this offering a comprehensive mobile and fixed bearing knee system. TheInnexKnee System is distributed in Europe and Asia Pacific and is not currently available for commercial distribution in the U.S.

Zimmer®Unicompartmental Knee Systems.TheZimmerUnicompartmental Knee System offers a high flexion design for unicompartmental knee
surgery. The system offers the surgeon the ability to conserve bone by replacing only the compartment of the knee that has had degenerative changes. AGender SolutionsPatello-Femoral Joint System is also available, a system which
incorporates key gender specific design features and a proprietary guided milling surgical technique for use in patello-femoral joint replacement.

Zimmer®Patient Specific
Instruments.    TheZimmerPatient Specific Instruments simplify a total or partial knee procedure and help enhance appropriate placement of the final implant based on a surgeon’s preoperative surgical plan. Based on
a patient’s MRI scan, a computer generated, custom guide is produced to conform to a patient’s unique knee anatomy. This guide is then utilized intraoperatively to aid in the surgical correction of the patient’s knee.

Zimmer®Segmental System.    Adding to our broad portfolio of revision options, theZimmerSegmental System is a comprehensive system designed to
address patients with severe bone loss associated with disease, trauma or revision. This important addition realizes our strategic goal of expanding our product solutions across the continuum of care and, with the incorporation ofTrabecular
MetalTechnology, expands the possibilities for treatment, short and long-term fixation and stability.

Hip Implants

Total hip replacement surgeries replace both the head of the femur and the socket portion of the pelvis (acetabulum) of
the natural hip. Hip procedures include first time, or primary, joint replacement as well as revision procedures. Approximately 30 percent of hip implant procedures involve the use of bone cement to attach or affix the prosthetic components to the
surrounding bone. The remaining are press-fit into bone, which means that they have a surface that bone affixes to through either ongrowth or ingrowth technologies.

Our key hip replacement products include:

Zimmer®M/L Taper Hip Prosthesis.    TheZimmerM/L Taper Hip Prosthesis offers a proximally
porous-coated wedge-shaped design based on long-term clinically proven concepts. The M/L Taper has become widely used due to several key design features.









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



ZimmerM/L Taper Hip Prosthesis withKinectiv®Technology.    TheZimmerM/L Taper withKinectivTechnology is a system of
modular stem and neck components designed to help the surgeon restore the natural hip joint center intraoperatively by addressing the key variables of leg length, offset and version independently.

Alloclassic®(Zweymüller®)Hip System.    TheAlloclassic (Zweymüller)Hip
System has become one of the most used, primary, cementless hip systems in the world. This is one of the few stems available today that is practically unchanged since its introduction in 1979. A new offset design was added in 2004 and offers the
surgeon increased capability to restore the patient’s anatomical joint movement.

CLS®Spotorno®Hip System.TheCLS SpotornoStem is one of our best selling hip prostheses, especially in the European markets. Additions to
the product line provide the capability for restoration of the physiological center of rotation.

CLS Brevius™ Hip
Stem withKinectivTechnology.    Introduced in 2011, this hip stem is based on theCLS SpotornoStem, which has more than 25 years of clinical use. The new technology enables surgeons to better match
patients’ individual anatomies with modular neck options designed for independent, intraoperative adjustments.

Fitmore®Hip Stem.    TheFitmoreHip Stem offers the surgeon a short, bone preserving stem. Maintaining bone stock is particularly important for patients who may undergo a later revision procedure. Its shape facilitates minimally invasive procedures.

Continuum®Acetabular System,Trilogy®IT Acetabular System andAllofit®ITAlloclassicAcetabular System.Each of these acetabular systems offer the surgeon a choice of advanced bearing options to
meet the clinical and lifestyle needs of each patient. Bearing options includeLongevity®Highly
Crosslinked Polyethylene,Metasul®Metal-on-Metal Technology and aBIOLOX®1delta Ceramic-on-Ceramic Technology (where Zimmer has regulatory clearances). The acetabular systems also provide surgeons a choice of
fixation method that accommodates their surgical philosophy.Continuumis now our most widely sold acetabular cup system.

Maxera®Cup.    TheMaxeraCup
provides a large-head, ceramic-on-ceramic option for the younger and more active patient. The cup is an established hemispherical design that provides increased stability with a familiar surgical technique. TheMaxeraCup presents orthopaedic
surgeons with a system that offers a high range of motion and a low-wear bearing to better enable the restoration of a patient’s active lifestyle.

Trabecular MetalModular Acetabular System.    TheTrabecular MetalModular Acetabular System incorporates the advanced fixation surface ofTrabecular MetalMaterial. In addition, we offer aTrabecular MetalAcetabular Revision



1Registered trademark of CeramTec GmbH

System that provides the surgeon with a variety of off-the-shelf options to address a wide range of bone deficiencies encountered during acetabular revisions and to achieve a stable construct.

Extremity Implants

Our extremity portfolio, primarily shoulder and elbow products, is designed to treat arthritic conditions, soft tissue injuries and fractures.

Our key products include:

Bigliani/Flatow®Complete Shoulder Solution
Family.    TheBigliani/FlatowShoulder product line combined with theTrabecular MetalHumeral Stem give us a significant presence in the global shoulder implant market.

Trabecular MetalGlenoid.    The Trabecular Metal Glenoid offers surgeons a glenoid component designed to
improve fixation. Trabecular Metal Material’s properties allow for more normal bone formation and maintenance.

Trabecular MetalReverse Shoulder System.    TheTrabecular MetalReverse Shoulder System incorporates
advanced materials and design to offer improved biological ingrowth potential through the utilization ofTrabecular MetalTechnology, while addressing significant loss of rotator cuff function. The reverse shoulder system is designed to
restore function to patients who, because of debilitating rotator cuff tears, are not candidates for traditional shoulder surgery and have exhausted other means of repair.

Zimmer®Anatomical Shoulder™System.    TheAnatomical ShoulderSystem can be adjusted to each patient’s individual
anatomy. This portfolio of products includes theAnatomical ShoulderInverse/Reverse System, designed to address significant loss of rotator cuff function, and theAnatomical ShoulderFracture System. Both the primary and
fracture shoulder implants can be converted to a reverse shoulder without removal of the initial implant.

Coonrad/Morrey Total
Elbow.    The Coonrad/Morrey Total Elbow product line is a family of elbow replacement implant products to address patients with conditions of severe arthritis or trauma.

Dental Implants

Our dental products division manufactures and/or distributes:
(1) dental reconstructive implants — for individuals who are totally without teeth or are missing one or more teeth; (2) dental restorative products — aimed at providing a more natural restoration to resemble the original teeth;
and (3) dental regenerative products — for soft tissue and bone rehabilitation.

Dental Reconstructive Implants

Our dental reconstructive implant products and surgical and restorative techniques include:

Tapered Screw-Vent®Implant System.Our highest selling dental product line provides the clinician a tapered









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



geometry which resembles the natural shape of a tooth root. TheTapered Screw-VentImplant System, with its two-stage design, was developed to minimize valuable chair time for
restorations. TheTapered Screw-VentImplant System is a technologically advanced dental implant featuring a proprietary internal hex connection, multiple lead threads for reduced insertion time and selective surface coatings. TheZimmer®One-Piece Implant System, designed to complement the success of theTapered Screw-VentImplant System, enhances this product line by offering clinicians a fast, convenient restorative option.

AdVent®Implant System.Utilizing many features of theTapered Screw-VentImplant System, theAdVentImplant System is a
transgingival, one stage design that utilizes the same surgical system as theTapered Screw-VentImplant System, allowing the clinician to use both design concepts without incurring the added cost of a second surgical system.

Tapered SwissPlus®Implant System.    Designed to meet the needs of clinicians who prefer a transgingival, one stage, dental implant, theTapered SwissPlusImplant System incorporates multiple lead threads for faster insertion time and a tapered body to allow it to be placed in tight interdental spaces. TheTapered SwissPlusImplant System also incorporates an internal connection.

Dental Restorative Products

We commercialize products for the aesthetic market aimed at providing a more natural restoration. We offer a full line of prosthetic devices for each of the above dental implant systems as well as a
custom solution, as follows:

Zimmer Hex-Lock®Contour Abutment and Restorative Products.    Designed to be used with ourTapered Screw-VentandZimmerOne-Piece Implant Systems,
our contour lines are a solution for addressing the diversity of patients’ needs. Featuring prepared margins, titanium and ceramic options and snap-on impression caps, our abutments are designed to simplify the restoration process, save time
for clinicians and technicians and offer versatility.

Our Hex-Lock Short Abutment and Restorative System
is an all-inclusive solution that promotes posterior restorations. We also offer theZimmer®Contour
Zirconia Abutment. Both are engineered for use with the Tapered Screw-Vent Implant System.

Dental Regenerative Products

We market the following product lines for use in regenerative techniques in oral surgery:

Puros®Allograft Products.    ThePurosbiologic offering is an allograft material, which in the case of mineralized bone and dermal tissues,
utilizes theTutoplast®2Tissue Processing Technique to provide exceptional bone and soft tissue grafting material for use in oral surgery.
Zimmer Dental offers a number of distinctPurosAllograft products to



2Registered trademark of RTI Biologics, Inc.

use together or separately for various bone and soft tissue grafting needs:PurosCancellous Particulate,PurosCortical Particulate,PurosBlock Allografts,PurosPericardium Membranes,PurosDermis Membranes,PurosDemineralized Bone Matrix (DBM) andPurosDBM Putty with Chips.

We distribute thePurosAllograft Products through an exclusive, worldwide agreement with RTI Biologics, Inc., which was amended and renewed in 2010.

Through this same agreement with RTI Biologics, Inc., we provideCopiOs®Pericardium Membrane in the U.S. Sourced from bovine pericardial tissue, theCopiOsPericardium Membrane
provides the characteristics of natural tissue and can be used as a direct substitute forPurosPericardium Membranes.

Spine Implants

Our Spine products division designs, manufactures and distributes medical devices and surgical instruments to deliver
comprehensive solutions for those with back or neck pain caused by degenerative conditions, deformities or traumatic injury of the spine. We provide surgeons a broad range of technologies for posterior and anterior procedures in the cervical,
thoracic and lumbar regions of the spine.

Zimmer Spine’s portfolio of spinal solutions includes:

PathFinder NXT™ Minimally Invasive Pedicle Screw System.    Released in 2010, thePathFinder NXTSystem builds on the legacy of thePathFinder®Device, a pioneering technology in
minimally invasive spinal fusion procedures. ThePathfinder NXTSystem is designed to allow for a mini-open or true percutaneous approach, depending on the preferred surgeon technique and patient need. In addition, thePathFinder NXTSystem incorporates enhanced features that provide improved efficiency in performing minimally invasive fusion procedures.

Zimmer Universal Clamp™ Spinal Fixation System.    The design of theUniversal ClampImplant allows
it to be used alongside traditional hooks, screws and wires to treat scoliotic deformities and correct complex spinal pathologies.

Sequoia®Pedicle Screw System.    TheSequoiaSystem was developed to simplify surgical flow, reduce implantation time and improve ergonomic tool design. This pedicle screw system combines ergonomic instrumentation with an effective design that reduces implant metal volume.

Ardis®Interbody System.    TheArdisImplant features a self-distracting nose, convex geometry and wide range of sizes. This versatilePEEK-OPTIMA®3Device incorporates a large space for graft placement, plus an advanced tooth design to effectively resist migration
and expulsion during procedures.ArdisInstrumentation was also designed to streamline the surgical procedure and improve surgeon comfort.



3Registered trademark of Ivibio, Ltd.









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



Trinica®Select Anterior Cervical Plating System.    TheTrinicaSelect System is designed to simplify the surgical procedure with theSecure-Twist®Anti-Migration System, which provides visual confirmation of screw capture, as well as a
wide variety of screw options to customize the construct depending on patient need.

Biological
Products.    Zimmer Spine offers a full line of bone void filler products to accommodate most surgical procedures.Puros®Demineralized Bone Matrix is available in Putty and Putty with Chips formulations, and theCopiOs®Bone Void Filler family of products includes synthetic bone graft material in the form of sponges or pastes that are used to fill bone voids during spine surgery.

Dynesys®Dynamic Stabilization System.    TheDynesysImplant family was designed to facilitate a more physiologic approach to low back spinal
stabilization. The system threads flexible components, instead of traditional rigid titanium rods, through pedicle screws in order to stabilize affected spinal segments in a more natural anatomic position and to alleviate pain. TheDynesysDynamic Stabilization System is currently only indicated for use as an adjunct to fusion in the U.S.

Wallis®Posterior Dynamic Stabilization System (available outside the U.S. only).    TheWallisSystem is a spinal implant that was designed to
stabilize the lumbar spine while preserving the anatomy and minimizing the need for bony resection. TheWallisSystem combines aPEEK-OPTIMASpacer linked to the vertebrae via a polyester band that permits an even distribution of
stresses on bone.

Trauma

Trauma products include devices used to stabilize damaged or broken bones and their surrounding tissues to support the body’s natural healing processes. Fractures are most often stabilized using
internal fixation devices such as plates, screws, nails, wires and pins, but may also be stabilized using external fixation devices. Biologics treatments are used in conjunction with traditional trauma devices to encourage healing and replace
bone lost during an injury. We are focused on providing exceptional options to treat a broad range of traumatic injuries, addressing unmet clinical needs and implementing next-generation technologies into our portfolio of trauma solutions.

Zimmer Trauma offers a comprehensive line of products, including:

Zimmer Natural Nail®System.    TheZimmer Natural NailSystem includes a series of intramedullary nails designed to address a broad range of long bone
fractures. The nails are anatomically shaped and incorporate a feature that allows the screws to be linked to the nails, creating a construct even in poor quality bone. Instrumentation for nail placement is designed to make it easy for surgeons to
utilize the implants as well as to address growing concerns with obesity and osteoporosis.

NCB®Polyaxial Locking Plate System.NCBPolyaxial Locking Plates provide surgeons with the ability to place screws with polyaxial
freedom and utilize both conventional and locking technology in the treatment of complex fractures of the distal femur, proximal humerus and proximal tibia. We continue to invest in additional applications of this technology.

Zimmer®Periarticular Locking Plate System.    TheZimmerPeriarticular Locking Plate System combines anatomic designs with locking screw
technology to create constructs for use in comminuted fractures or where deficient bone stock or poor bone quality is encountered. By combining locking screw holes with compression slots, the plates can be used as both locking devices and
fracture compression devices.

Zimmer®Universal Locking System.    TheZimmerUniversal Locking System is a comprehensive system of mini and small fragment plates, screws and
instruments for fracture fixation. The Universal Locking System plates resemble standard plates, but have figure-8 shaped holes which allow the plates to be used as compression plates, locked internal fixators or as an internal fixation system
combining both techniques.

Zimmer®Cable-Ready®System.    TheZimmer Cable-ReadySystem includes a series of instruments, cables and other implants that help a surgeon treat several different fracture types, including those that occur around a previously implanted
device (periprosthetic). The cables are wrapped around the bone and then secured, either to themselves or to plates, to provide fixation for fractured limbs.

Surgical

We develop, manufacture and market products that support
reconstructive, trauma, spine and dental implant procedures, with a focus on Bone Cements, Surgical Wound Site Management and Blood Management. The Surgical product portfolio includes:

PALACOS®4Bone Cement.    We have exclusive U.S. and Canada distribution rights for thePALACOSline of bone cement products manufactured by Heraeus Kulzer GmbH. Included in these brands
arePALACOSR andPALACOSR+G Bone Cements, as well asPALACOSLV andPALACOSLV+G Bone Cements. ThePALACOSR+G andPALACOSLV+G products are bone cements with the antibiotic gentamicin pre-mixed in the
formulation. Both are used by orthopaedic surgeons to reduce the risk of postoperative infection in second stage revisions. ThePALACOSfamily’s history of clinical success, fatigue strength, high visualization and handling
characteristics make it well-suited for orthopaedics.

Hi-Fatigue™5Bone Cement.    We have exclusive European and
Asian distribution rights for theHi-Fatigueline of bone cement products manufactured by aap Biomaterials GmbH & Co. KG. Included in these brands areHi-FatigueandHi-FatigueG Bone Cements. TheHi-FatigueG
Bone Cement



4Registered trademark of Heraeus Kulzer GmbH

5Registered trademark of aap Biomaterials GmbH & Co. KG









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



utilizes the antibiotic gentamicin pre-mixed in the formulation and is used by orthopaedic surgeons to reduce the risk of postoperative infection.

A.T.S.®Automatic Tourniquet Systems.    TheA.T.S.Tourniquet Systems Product Line is our family of tourniquet machines and cuffs that are
designed to safely create a bloodless surgical field. The portfolio includes theA.T.S.3000 Tourniquet System, which utilizes proprietary technology to determine the patient’s appropriate “Limb Occlusion Pressure” (LOP) based
on the patient’s specific physiology. Through reduction of a patient’s LOP, the clinician may reduce the risk of tissue and/or nerve damage. Complementing A.T.S. Tourniquet Systems machines is a wide range of cuffs that provide the
flexibility to occlude blood flow safely with convenience and accuracy for limbs of virtually every size and shape.

Pulsavac®Plus,PulsavacPlus AC andPulsavacPlus LP Wound Debridement Systems.    ThePulsavacSystems are used for cleaning and debridement of contaminants and foreign matter from wounds using simultaneous irrigation and suction. All threePulsavacSystems are disposable to reduce the risk of cross contamination. WhilePulsavacPlus andPulsavacPlus LP Wound Debridement Systems are both battery-powered, thePulsavacPlus AC Wound Debridement System is a disposable system
that is powered by a reusable AC power source to help alleviate environmental concerns associated with battery disposal.

Zimmer®Blood Reinfusion System (ZBRS) andHemovac®Blood Management System.    These two blood management products are part of a larger family that
supports the clinician in managing patient blood loss after a surgical procedure. The ZBRS product is a closed-loop postoperative system that effectively salvages and filters the patient’s own blood to help reduce dependency on banked blood
and/or preoperative autologous donation.

HEALTHCARE CONSULTING



Our healthcare consulting services
subsidiary, Accelero Health Partners, LLC (Accelero), is based in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania. Accelero consultants work to design a customized program for each client that promotes the active participation and collaboration of the physicians and the
hospital-based departments with the goal of consistently producing a superior outcome in the form of a growing, efficient and effective care delivery network. Currently, revenue related to Accelero services represents less than 1 percent of our
total net sales.

BIOLOGICS



Our research and development
efforts include a Biologics group based in Austin, Texas, with its own full-time staff and dedicated projects focusing on the development of a variety of biologic technologies for musculoskeletal applications. This group works on biological
solutions to repair and regenerate

damaged or degenerated musculoskeletal tissues using biomaterials/cell therapies which offer the possibility of treating damaged joints by biological repair rather than replacing them. A sampling
of some of our key projects in the Biologics area is set forth below.

We are collaborating with ISTO
Technologies, Inc. (ISTO) to develop chondral grafts for cartilage repair. ISTO creates cell-based therapies for cartilage regeneration using cells from juvenile donor cartilage.DeNovo®NT Natural Tissue Graft represents our first product entry into the cartilage repair market. This tissue product
provides particulated juvenile cartilage tissue for repair of articular cartilage defects of the knee, ankle, shoulder, hip, elbow and toe joints. More than 1,600 procedures utilizing this innovative cartilage repair product were performed in 2011.
Our biologics portfolio also featuresChondrofix®Osteochondral Allograft designed to address
osteochondral lesions in a single-stage procedure. TheChondrofixImplant is an osteochondral plug comprised of articular cartilage and subchondral bone.

Many musculoskeletal surgical procedures use bone grafts to help regenerate lost or damaged bone. Our Spine, Dental and Trauma divisions have introduced a technologically advanced all-human demineralized
bone matrix,PurosDBM Putty and Putty with bone chips. This bone-derived allograft material is used to fill bone voids or defects. It is placed into the bone void where it is then completely replaced by natural bone during the healing
process.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



We have extensive research and
development activities to develop new surgical techniques, materials, biologics and product designs. The research and development functions work closely with our strategic brand marketing function. The rapid commercialization of innovative new
materials, biologics products, implant and instrument designs and surgical techniques remains one of our core strategies and continues to be an important driver of sales growth.

We are broadening our product offerings in each of our product categories and exploring new technologies with possible applications in
multiple areas. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we spent $238.6 million, $218.5 million and $205.7 million, respectively, on research and development. Our primary research and development facility is located in Warsaw,
Indiana. We have other research and development personnel based in, among other places, Winterthur, Switzerland; Austin, Texas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Carlsbad, California; Dover, Ohio; and Parsippany, New Jersey. As of December 31, 2011, we
employed more than 1,000 research and development employees worldwide.

We expect to continue to identify innovative
technologies, which may include acquiring complementary products or businesses, establishing technology licensing arrangements or strategic alliances.









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE



We are subject to government
regulation in the countries in which we conduct business. In the U.S., numerous laws and regulations govern all the processes by which medical devices are brought to market. These include, among others, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and
regulations issued or promulgated thereunder. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has enacted regulations that control all aspects of the development, manufacture, advertising, promotion and postmarket surveillance of medical products, including
medical devices. In addition, the FDA controls the access of products to market through processes designed to ensure that only products that are safe and effective are made available to the public.

Most of our new products fall into an FDA classification that requires the submission of a Premarket Notification (510(k)) to the
FDA. This process requires us to demonstrate that the device to be marketed is at least as safe and effective as, that is, substantially equivalent to, a legally marketed device. We must submit information that supports our substantial equivalency
claims. Before we can market the new device, we must receive an order from the FDA finding substantial equivalence and clearing the new device for commercial distribution in the U.S.

Other devices we develop and market are in a category (class) for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and
Premarket Approval (PMA) requirements. The PMA process requires us to provide clinical and laboratory data that establishes that the new medical device is safe and effective. The FDA will approve the new device for commercial distribution if it
determines that the data and information in the PMA constitute valid scientific evidence and that there is reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended use(s).

All of our devices marketed in the U.S. have been cleared or approved by the FDA, with the exception of certain pre-amendment devices
which were in commercial distribution prior to May 28, 1976. The FDA has grandfathered these devices, so new FDA submissions are not required.

The FDA has the authority to: halt the distribution of certain medical devices; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices; or order the repair, replacement or refund of the costs of such
devices and to seek criminal prosecution of executives for violation of FDA regulations. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that we must comply with in the manufacture and marketing of our products.

In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to local regulations affecting, among other
things, design and product standards, packaging requirements and labeling requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. The member countries of the European Union
have adopted the European Medical Device Directive, which creates a single set of medical device regulations for products marketed in all member countries. Compliance with the Medical Device Directive and

certification to a quality system enable the manufacturer to place a CE mark on its products. To obtain authorization to affix the CE mark to a product, a recognized European Notified Body must
assess a manufacturer’s quality systems and the product’s conformity to the requirements of the Medical Device Directive. We are subject to inspection by the Notified Bodies for compliance with these requirements.

Further, we are subject to various federal and state laws concerning healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims and anti-kickback
laws. These laws are administered by, among others, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and state attorneys general. Many of these agencies have increased their enforcement
activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the U.S., exclusion from participation
in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration (VA) health programs.

Our
operations in foreign countries are subject to the extraterritorial application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Our global operations are also subject to foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the UK Bribery Act, among others. As
part of our global compliance program, we seek to address anti-corruption risks proactively.

Our facilities and operations are
also subject to complex federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges of substances in the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and
the clean-up of properties by pollutants. We do not expect that the ongoing costs of compliance with these environmental requirements will have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, capital expenditures or competitive position.

We continue to assess the impact that the healthcare reform legislation passed in 2010 by the U.S. federal government will have on
our business. The new law includes a 2.3 percent excise tax on a majority of our U.S. sales that is scheduled to be implemented in 2013.

COMPETITION



The orthopaedics and broader musculoskeletal care industry is highly competitive. In the global markets for reconstructive implants,
trauma and related surgical products, our major competitors include: DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Stryker Corporation, Biomet, Inc., Smith & Nephew plc, Wright Medical Group, Inc., Synthes, Inc. and
Tornier, Inc.

In the Americas geographic segment, we and DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., Stryker Corporation, Biomet, Inc.,
Smith & Nephew, Inc. (a subsidiary of Smith & Nephew plc), Wright Medical Group, Inc. and Synthes, Inc. account for a large majority of the total reconstructive and trauma implant sales.

In the Asia Pacific market for reconstructive implant and trauma products, we compete primarily with DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., Stryker
Corporation, Synthes, Inc.,









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



Smith & Nephew plc and Biomet, Inc., as well as regional companies, including Japan Medical Materials Corporation and Japan Medical Dynamic Marketing, Inc. Factors, such as the
dealer system and complex regulatory environments, make it difficult for smaller companies, particularly those that are non-regional, to compete effectively with the market leaders in the Asia Pacific region.

The European reconstructive implant and trauma product markets are more fragmented than the Americas or the Asia Pacific segments. The
variety of philosophies held by European surgeons regarding hip reconstruction, for example, has fostered the existence of many regional European companies, including Aesculap AG (a subsidiary of B. Braun), Waldemar LINK GmbH & Co., KG and
Mathys AG which, in addition to the global competitors, compete with us. Many hip implants sold in Europe are products developed specifically for the European market. We will continue to develop and produce specially tailored products to meet
specific European needs.

In the spinal implant category, we compete globally primarily with the spinal and biologic business
of Medtronic, Inc., DePuy Spine (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Synthes, Inc., Stryker Corporation, Biomet Spine (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.) and NuVasive, Inc.

In the dental implant category, we compete primarily with Nobel Biocare Holding AG, Straumann Holding AG, Dentsply International and Biomet 3i (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.).

Competition within the industry is primarily based on technology, innovation, quality, reputation and customer service. A key factor in
our continuing success in the future will be our ability to develop new products and improve existing products and technologies.

MANUFACTURING AND RAW MATERIALS



We manufacture our products at twelve sites, including Warsaw, Indiana; Winterthur, Switzerland; Ponce, Puerto Rico; Dover, Ohio;
Statesville, North Carolina; Carlsbad, California; Parsippany, New Jersey; Shannon, Ireland; Etupes, France; Beijing and Xianning, China; and Geneva, Switzerland. We also strategically outsource some manufacturing to qualified suppliers who are
highly capable of producing components.

We believe that our manufacturing facilities are among the best in our industry in
terms of automation and productivity and have the flexibility to accommodate future growth. The manufacturing operations at these facilities are designed to incorporate the cellular concept for production and to implement tenets of a
manufacturing philosophy focused on continuous improvement efforts in product quality, lead time reduction and capacity optimization. Our continuous improvement efforts are driven by Lean and Six Sigma methodologies. In addition, at
certain of our manufacturing facilities, many of the employees are cross-trained to perform a broad array of operations.

We
generally target operating our manufacturing facilities at optimal levels of total capacity. We continually evaluate the potential to in-source and out-source production as part of our manufacturing strategy to provide value to our
stakeholders.

We have improved our manufacturing processes to protect our profitability and offset the
impact of inflationary costs. We have, for example, employed computer-assisted robots and multi-axis grinders to precision polish medical devices; automated certain manufacturing and inspection processes, including on-machine inspection and
process controls; purchased state-of-the-art equipment; in-sourced core products and processes; and negotiated cost reductions from third-party suppliers.

We use a diverse and broad range of raw materials in the manufacturing of our products. We purchase all of our raw materials and select components used in manufacturing our products from external
suppliers. In addition, we purchase some supplies from single sources for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, cost effectiveness or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We work closely with our suppliers
to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. To date, we have not experienced any significant difficulty in locating and obtaining the materials necessary to fulfill our production schedules.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY



Patents and other proprietary rights are important to the continued success of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how,
continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. We protect our proprietary rights through a variety of methods, including confidentiality agreements and proprietary information
agreements with vendors, employees, consultants and others who may have access to proprietary information. We own or control through licensing arrangements more than 5,000 issued patents and patent applications throughout the world that relate to
aspects of the technology incorporated in many of our products.

EMPLOYEES



As of December 31, 2011, we
employed more than 8,700 employees worldwide, including more than 1,000 employees dedicated to research and development. Approximately 4,700 employees are located within the U.S. and approximately 4,000 employees are located outside
of the U.S., primarily throughout Europe and in Japan. We have approximately 3,600 employees dedicated to manufacturing our products worldwide. The Warsaw, Indiana production facility employs more than 1,400 employees. Approximately
150 U.S. employees are members of a trade union covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

We have a collective bargaining
agreement with the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union for and on behalf of Local 2737-15 covering employees at the Dover, Ohio facility, which continues in effect
until May 15, 2012.









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following table sets
forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of February 20, 2012.



NameAgePositionDavid C. Dvorak48President and Chief Executive OfficerCheryl R. Blanchard, Ph.D.47Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific OfficerJames T. Crines52Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerDerek M. Davis43Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting OfficerJeffery A. McCaulley46President, Zimmer ReconstructiveBruno A. Melzi64Chairman, Europe, Middle East and AfricaStephen H.L. Ooi58President, Asia PacificJeffrey B. Paulsen51Group President, Global BusinessesChad F. Phipps40Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary



Mr. Dvorakwas appointed President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors in May 2007. From December 2005 to April 2007, he served as Group President, Global Businesses and Chief Legal
Officer. Prior to that, he had served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Services, Chief Counsel and Secretary, as well as Chief Compliance Officer, since October 2003. Mr. Dvorak joined Zimmer in 2001.

Dr. Blanchardwas appointed
Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer in December 2005. She is responsible for Corporate Research, Regulatory Affairs, Global Medical Affairs, Biologics Research and Development and Biologics Sales and Marketing. Previously, she had
served as Vice President, Corporate Research and Clinical Affairs since October 2003. Dr. Blanchard joined Zimmer in 2000.

Mr. Crineswas appointed Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in May 2007. From December 2005 to April 2007, he
served as Senior Vice President, Finance, Operations and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to that, he had served as Senior Vice President, Finance/Controller and Information Technology since October 2003. Mr. Crines
joined Zimmer in 1995.

Mr. Daviswas appointed Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in May 2007. He has responsibility for internal and external reporting, planning and analysis, and corporate
and business unit accounting. From March 2006 to May 2007, he served as Director, Financial Planning and Accounting. Prior to that, he had served as Director, Finance, Operations and Logistics since December 2003. Mr. Davis joined Zimmer in
2003.

Mr. McCaulleywas appointed
President, Zimmer Reconstructive in November 2008. He has overall responsibility for the Global Reconstructive Division, including direct responsibility for Global Brand Management, Product Research and Development, Quality and Regulatory Affairs,
and Medical Training and Education, as well as Americas Marketing and Sales. Prior to joining Zimmer, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Health Division of Wolters Kluwer from 2005, Vice President and General Manager of the
Diabetes Division of Medtronic, Inc. from 2002, and spent

14 years with GE Healthcare in numerous positions of increasing responsibility, including President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Clinical Services from 2000.

Mr. Melziwas appointed
Chairman, Europe, Middle East and Africa in October 2003. He is responsible for the sales, marketing and distribution of products in the European, Middle Eastern and African regions. Mr. Melzi joined Zimmer in 1990.

Mr. Ooiwas appointed
President, Asia Pacific in December 2005. He is responsible for the sales, marketing and distribution of products in the Asia Pacific region. Prior to that, he had served as President, Australasia since September 2003. Mr. Ooi joined Zimmer in
1986.

Mr. Paulsenwas appointed Group President, Global Businesses in December 2009. He has responsibility for Zimmer Spine, Zimmer Dental, Zimmer Trauma and Zimmer Surgical. Prior to joining Zimmer, Mr. Paulsen served as Chief Operating Officer of MPS Group,
Inc., a privately held environmental services and facility management firm, from September 2008 to December 2009. Prior to that, he served as Group President of TriMas Corporation, a specialty manufacturing company, from January 2007 to June 2008.
Previously, Mr. Paulsen had held a number of increasingly responsible executive roles at Stryker Corporation from 1996 to December 2006, including President, Orthopaedic Reconstructive Division.

Mr. Phippswas appointed
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in May 2007. He has global responsibility for our legal affairs and he serves as Secretary to the Board of Directors. Mr. Phipps also oversees our Government Affairs, Corporate Marketing and
Communications and Public Relations activities. From December 2005 to May 2007, he served as Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Prior to that, he had served as Associate Counsel and Assistant Secretary since September 2003.
Mr. Phipps joined Zimmer in 2003.









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our Internet address is
www.zimmer.com. We routinely post important information for investors on our website in the “Investor Relations” section, which may be accessed from our homepage at www.zimmer.com or directly at http://investor.zimmer.com. We use this
website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations section of our website, in addition to following
our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, free of
charge, including:

•our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC);

•announcements of investor conferences and events at which our executives talk about our products and competitive strategies. Podcasts and archives of
these events are also available;

•press releases on quarterly earnings, product announcements, legal developments and other material news that we may post from time to time;

•corporate governance information including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct, Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer
and Senior Financial Officers, information concerning our Board of Directors and its committees, including the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee and Corporate Governance Committee, and other
governance-related policies;

•shareholder services information, including ways to contact our transfer agent; and

•opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information provided in real time.

The information available on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or a part of this or any other report we file with or
furnish to the SEC.



