ITEM 1.Business



OVERVIEW



We are a global leader in the
design, development, manufacture and marketing of orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, biologics, dental implants and related surgical products. We also provide other healthcare related services. In this report, “Zimmer,”
“we,” “us,” “our” and similar words refer collectively to Zimmer Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Zimmer Holdings refers to the parent company only.

Zimmer Holdings was incorporated in Delaware in 2001. Our history dates to 1927, when Zimmer Manufacturing Company, a predecessor, was
founded in Warsaw, Indiana. On August 6, 2001, Zimmer Holdings was spun off from its former parent and became an independent public company.

CUSTOMERS, SALES AND MARKETING



Our primary customers include orthopaedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, oral surgeons, dentists, hospitals, stocking distributors, healthcare
dealers and, in their capacity as agents, healthcare purchasing organizations or buying groups. These customers range from large multinational enterprises to independent clinicians and dentists.

We have operations in more than 25 countries and market products in more than 100 countries. We manage our operations through three major
geographic segments – the Americas, which is comprised principally of the U.S. and includes other North, Central and South American markets; Europe, which is comprised principally of Europe and includes the Middle East and Africa markets; and
Asia Pacific, which is comprised primarily of Japan and Australia and includes other Asian and Pacific markets.

We market and
sell products through three principal channels: 1) direct to healthcare institutions, such as hospitals, referred to as direct channel accounts; 2) through stocking distributors and healthcare dealers; and 3) directly to dental practices and dental
laboratories. With direct channel accounts, inventory is generally consigned to sales agents or customers. With sales to stocking distributors, healthcare dealers, dental practices and dental laboratories, title to product passes upon shipment or
upon implantation of the product. Direct channel accounts represented approximately 80 percent of our net sales in 2013. No individual direct channel account, stocking distributor, healthcare dealer, dental practice or dental laboratory accounted
for more than 1 percent of our net sales for 2013.

We stock inventory in our warehouse facilities and retain title to
consigned inventory in sufficient quantities so that products are available when needed for surgical procedures. Safety stock levels are determined based on a number of factors, including demand, manufacturing lead times and quantities required to
maintain service levels. We also carry trade accounts receivable balances based on credit terms that are generally consistent with local market practices.

We utilize a network of sales associates, sales managers and support personnel, some of
whom are employed or contracted by independent distributors and sales agencies. We invest a significant amount of time and expense in training sales associates in how to use specific products and how to best inform surgeons of product features and
uses. Sales force representatives must have strong technical selling skills and medical education to provide technical support for surgeons.

In response to the different healthcare systems throughout the world, our sales and marketing strategies and organizational structures differ by region. We utilize a global approach to sales force
training, marketing and medical education to provide consistent, high quality service. Additionally, we keep current with key surgical developments and other issues related to orthopaedic surgeons, neurosurgeons, dentists and oral surgeons and the
medical procedures they perform.

The following is a summary of our three reportable segments. See Note 17 to the consolidated
financial statements for more information regarding our segments.

Americas.    The Americas is our
largest geographic segment, accounting for $2,619.8 million, or 57 percent, of 2013 net sales, with the U.S. accounting for 92 percent of net sales in this region. The U.S. sales force consists of a combination of employees and independent sales
agents, most of whom sell products exclusively for Zimmer. The sales force in the U.S. receives a commission on product sales and is responsible for many operating decisions and costs.

In this region, we contract with group purchasing organizations and managed care accounts and have promoted unit growth by offering volume
discounts to customer healthcare institutions within a specified group. Generally, we are designated as one of several preferred purchasing sources for specified products, although members are not obligated to purchase our products. Contracts with
group purchasing organizations generally have a term of three years, with extensions as warranted.

In the Americas, we monitor
and rank independent sales agents and our direct sales force across a range of performance metrics, including the achievement of sales targets and maintenance of efficient levels of working capital.

Europe.The European geographic segment accounted for $1,212.6 million, or 26 percent, of 2013 net sales,
with France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom collectively accounting for 70 percent of net sales in the region. This segment also includes other key markets, including Benelux, Nordic, Central and Eastern Europe,
the Middle East and Africa. Our sales force in this segment is comprised of direct sales associates, commissioned agents, independent distributors and sales support personnel. We emphasize the advantages of our clinically proven, established
designs and innovative solutions and new and enhanced materials and surfaces. In most European countries, healthcare is sponsored by the government and therefore government









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



budgets impact healthcare spending, which can affect our sales in this segment.

Asia Pacific.    The Asia Pacific geographic segment accounted for $791.0 million, or 17 percent, of 2013 net sales, with Japan being the largest market within this
segment, accounting for 44 percent of the region’s sales. This segment also includes key markets such as Australia, New Zealand, Korea, China, Taiwan, India, Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia. In Japan and most countries in the Asia
Pacific region, we maintain a network of dealers, who act as order agents on behalf of hospitals in the region, and sales associates, who build and maintain relationships with orthopaedic surgeons, neurosurgeons and dental surgeons in their markets.
These sales associates cover over 7,000 hospitals in the region. The knowledge and skills of these sales associates play a critical role in providing service, product information and support to surgeons. In 2012, we opened a research and development
center in Beijing, China, which focuses on products and technologies designed to meet the unique needs of Asian patients and their healthcare providers.

SEASONALITY



Our business is seasonal in nature to some extent, as many of our products are used in elective procedures, which typically decline during the summer months and can increase at the end of the year once
annual deductibles have been met on health insurance plans.

DISTRIBUTION



We operate distribution facilities
domestically in Warsaw, Indiana; Southaven, Mississippi; and Carlsbad, California and internationally in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, China, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand and the United Kingdom.

We generally ship our orders via expedited courier. We do not consider our backlog of firm orders to be material to an understanding of our business.

PRODUCTS



Our products include orthopaedic reconstructive implants, spinal and trauma devices, biologics, dental implants and related surgical
products.

Orthopaedic Reconstructive Implants

Knees

Total knee replacement surgeries typically include a femoral
component, a patella (knee cap), a tibial tray and an articular surface (placed on the tibial tray). Knee replacement surgeries include first-time, or primary, joint replacement procedures and revision procedures for the replacement, repair or
enhancement of an implant or component from a previous procedure. There are also procedures for partial reconstruction of the knee, which treat limited knee

degeneration and involve the replacement of only one side, or compartment, of the knee with a unicompartmental knee prosthesis. Our knee portfolio also includes early intervention and joint
preservation products, which seek to preserve the joint by repairing or regenerating damaged tissues and by treating osteoarthritis.

Our significant knee brands include the following:

•Persona®The Personalized Knee System

•NexGen®Complete Knee Solution

•Natural-Knee®II System

•Innex®Total Knee System

•Zimmer®Unicompartmental Knee System

•Zimmer®Patient Specific Instruments

•Zimmer®Segmental System

•Gel-One®1Cross-linked Hyaluronate

•DeNovo®NT Natural Tissue Graft

Hips

Total hip replacement surgeries replace both the head of the femur and the socket portion of the pelvis (acetabulum) of the natural hip. Hip procedures include first time, or primary, joint replacement as
well as revision procedures. Hip implant procedures involve the use of bone cement to attach or affix the prosthetic components to the surrounding bone, or are press-fit into bone, which means that they have a surface that bone affixes to through
either ongrowth or ingrowth technologies.

Our significant hip brands include the following:

•Zimmer®M/L Taper Hip Prosthesis andZimmerM/L Taper Hip Prosthesis withKinectiv®Technology

•Alloclassic®(Zweymüller®)Hip System

•CLS®Spotorno®Hip System andCLSBrevius®Hip Stem withKinectivTechnology

•Fitmore®Hip Stem

•Avenir®Müller Stem

•Continuum®Acetabular System

•Trilogy®IT Acetabular System

•Allofit®ITAlloclassic®Acetabular System

•Trabecular
MetalTMModular Acetabular System

Extremities

Our extremity portfolio, primarily shoulder and elbow products, is designed to treat arthritic conditions, soft tissue injuries and fractures.

Our significant extremity brands include the following:

•Trabecular MetalReverse Shoulder System

•Bigliani/Flatow®Complete Shoulder
Solution Family

•Zimmer®Anatomical Shoulder™ System

•Zimmer®Trabecular MetalTotal Ankle

•Coonrad/Morrey Total Elbow

•Nexel®Total Elbow

Dental

Our dental products division manufactures and/or distributes: (1) dental reconstructive implants – for individuals who are totally without teeth or are missing one or more teeth;



1Registered trademark of Seikagaku Corporation









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



(2) dental prosthetic products – aimed at providing a more natural restoration to resemble the original teeth; and (3) dental regenerative products – for soft tissue and bone
rehabilitation.

Our significant dental brands include the following:

•Tapered
Screw-Vent®Implant System

•Zimmer®Hex-Lock®Contour Abutment and Restorative Products

•Puros®Allograft Products2

Trauma

Trauma products
include devices used to stabilize damaged or broken bones and their surrounding tissues to support the body’s natural healing processes. Fractures are most often stabilized using internal fixation devices such as plates, screws, nails,
wires and pins, but may also be stabilized using external fixation devices. Biologics treatments are used in conjunction with traditional trauma devices to encourage healing and replace bone lost during an injury.

Our significant trauma brands include the following:

•Zimmer®Natural Nail®System

•NCB®Polyaxial Locking
Plate System

•XtraFix®External Fixation System

•Zimmer®Periarticular Locking Plate System

•Zimmer®Universal Locking System

•Zimmer®Cable-Ready®System

Spine

Our Spine products division designs, manufactures and distributes
medical devices and surgical instruments to deliver comprehensive solutions for those with back or neck pain caused by degenerative conditions, deformities or traumatic injury of the spine.

Our significant spine brands include the following:

•PathFinder
NXT®Minimally Invasive Pedicle Screw System

•Trabecular MetalImplants

•Sequoia®Pedicle Screw System

•Trinica®Select Anterior Cervical
Plating System

•Dynesys®Dynamic Stabilization System

Surgical

We develop, manufacture and market products that support reconstructive, trauma, spine and dental implant procedures, with a focus on bone cements, surgical wound site management, blood management and
fluid waste management.

Our significant surgical brands include the following:

•Transposal®andTransposal
Ultra®Fluid Waste Management Systems

•PALACOS®3Bone Cement

•A.T.S.®Automatic Tourniquet Systems

•Pulsavac®Plus,PulsavacPlus
AC andPulsavacPlus LP Wound Debridement Systems

•Zimmer®Universal Power System



2Manufactured for Zimmer Dental Inc. by RTI Biologics in Alachua, FL and Tutogen Medical GmbH, Germany (an RTI Biologics, Inc.
company)

3Registered trademark of Heraeus Medical GmbH

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



We have extensive research and
development activities to develop new surgical techniques, materials, biologics and product designs. The research and development teams work closely with our strategic brand marketing function. The rapid commercialization of innovative new
materials, biologics products, implant and instrument designs and surgical techniques remains one of our core strategies and continues to be an important driver of sales growth.

We are broadening our offerings in each of our product categories and exploring new technologies with possible applications in multiple
areas. Our primary research and development facility is located in Warsaw, Indiana. We have other research and development personnel based in, among other places, Montreal, Canada; Beijing, China; Winterthur, Switzerland; Austin, Texas; Minneapolis,
Minnesota; Carlsbad, California; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Dover, Ohio; and Parsippany, New Jersey. As of December 31, 2013, we employed nearly 1,000 research and development employees worldwide.

We expect to continue to identify innovative technologies, which may include acquiring complementary products or businesses, establishing
technology licensing arrangements or strategic alliances.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE



We are subject to government
regulation in the countries in which we conduct business. In the U.S., numerous laws and regulations govern all the processes by which medical devices are brought to market. These include, among others, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and
regulations issued or promulgated thereunder. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has enacted regulations that control all aspects of the development, manufacture, advertising, promotion and postmarket surveillance of medical products, including
medical devices. In addition, the FDA controls the access of products to market through processes designed to ensure that only products that are safe and effective are made available to the public.

Most of our new products fall into an FDA classification that requires the submission of a Premarket Notification (510(k)) to the
FDA. This process requires us to demonstrate that the device to be marketed is at least as safe and effective as, that is, substantially equivalent to, a legally marketed device. We must submit information that supports our substantial equivalency
claims. Before we can market the new device, we must receive an order from the FDA finding substantial equivalence and clearing the new device for commercial distribution in the U.S.

Other devices we develop and market are in a category (class) for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and
Premarket Approval (PMA) requirements. The PMA process requires us to provide clinical and laboratory data that establishes that the new medical device is safe and effective. The FDA will approve the new device for commercial distribution if it
determines that the data and information in the PMA application constitute valid scientific evidence and that there is reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended use(s).









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



All of our devices marketed in the U.S. have been cleared or approved by the FDA, with the
exception of some devices which were in commercial distribution prior to May 28, 1976. The FDA has grandfathered these devices, so new FDA submissions are not required.

Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations. The FDA reviews design and manufacturing practices, labeling and record keeping, and
manufacturers’ required reports of adverse experiences and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. We are also subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System
regulations among other FDA requirements, such as restrictions on advertising and promotion. The Quality System regulations govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging and servicing of all
finished medical devices intended for human use. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could
require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund payment of such devices, detain or seize adulterated or
misbranded medical devices, or ban such medical devices.

The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and/or
restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice.

The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), administers controls over the import of medical devices
into the U.S. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. We are also subject to foreign trade controls administered by certain U.S. government
agencies, including the Bureau of Industry and Security within the Commerce Department and the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Treasury Department.

There are also requirements of state, local and foreign governments that we must comply with in the manufacture and marketing of our products.

In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to local regulations affecting, among other things,
design and product standards, packaging requirements and labeling requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. The member countries of the European Union have
adopted the European Medical Device Directive, which creates a single set of medical device regulations for products marketed in all member countries. Compliance with the Medical Device Directive and certification to a quality system enable the
manufacturer to place a CE mark on its products. To obtain authorization to affix the CE mark to a product, a recognized European

Notified Body must assess a manufacturer’s quality systems and the product’s conformity to the requirements of the Medical Device Directive. We are subject to inspection by the Notified
Bodies for compliance with these requirements.

Further, we are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws concerning
healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims and anti-kickback laws, as well as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act and similar state and healthcare professional payment transparency laws. These laws are administered by, among others, the U.S.
Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, state attorneys general and various foreign government agencies. Many of these agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect
to medical device manufacturers in recent years. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the U.S., exclusion from participation in government
healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration (VA) health programs.

Our operations in foreign
countries are subject to the extraterritorial application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Our global operations are also subject to foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the UK Bribery Act, among others. As part of our global compliance
program, we seek to address anti-corruption risks proactively.

Our facilities and operations are also subject to complex
federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations, including those relating to discharges of substances in the air, water and land, the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the clean-up of
properties by pollutants. We do not expect that the ongoing costs of compliance with these environmental requirements will have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, capital expenditures or competitive position.

COMPETITION



The orthopaedics and broader musculoskeletal care industry is highly competitive. In the global markets for reconstructive implants,
trauma and related surgical products, our major competitors include: the DePuy Synthes Companies of Johnson & Johnson, Stryker Corporation, Biomet, Inc., and Smith & Nephew plc.

In the Americas geographic segment, we and the DePuy Synthes Companies, Stryker Corporation, Biomet, Inc., and Smith & Nephew,
Inc. (a subsidiary of Smith & Nephew plc) account for a large majority of the total reconstructive and trauma implant sales. There are also many smaller competitors actively engaging in this market. Some of these smaller competitors have
success by focusing on smaller subsegments of the industry.

The European reconstructive implant and trauma product markets are
more fragmented than those markets in the Americas or the Asia Pacific segments. The variety of philosophies held by European surgeons regarding hip reconstruction, for example, has fostered the existence of many regional European companies,
including Aesculap AG









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



(a subsidiary of B. Braun), Waldemar LINK GmbH & Co., KG and Mathys AG, which, in addition to the global competitors, compete with us. Many hip implants sold in Europe are products
developed specifically for the European market. We intend to continue to develop and produce specially tailored products to meet specific European needs.

In the Asia Pacific market for reconstructive implant and trauma products, we compete primarily with the DePuy Synthes Companies, Stryker Corporation, Smith & Nephew plc and Biomet, Inc., as well
as regional companies, including Japan Medical Materials Corporation and Japan Medical Dynamic Marketing, Inc. Factors, such as the dealer system and complex regulatory environments, make it difficult for smaller companies, particularly those that
are non-regional, to compete effectively with the market leaders in the more developed healthcare markets in the Asia Pacific region.

In the spinal implant category, we compete globally primarily with the spinal and biologic business of Medtronic, Inc., the DePuy Synthes Companies, Stryker Corporation, Biomet Spine (a subsidiary of
Biomet, Inc.), NuVasive, Inc. and Globus Medical, Inc.

In the dental implant category, we compete primarily with Nobel Biocare
Holding AG, Straumann Holding AG, Dentsply International and Biomet 3i (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.).

Competition within the
industry is primarily based on technology, innovation, quality, price, reputation and customer service. A key factor in our continuing success in the future will be our ability to develop new products and improve existing products and technologies.

MANUFACTURING AND RAW MATERIALS



We manufacture our products at
various sites. Our significant manufacturing locations include Warsaw, Indiana; Winterthur, Switzerland; Ponce, Puerto Rico; Dover, Ohio; Carlsbad, California; Parsippany, New Jersey; Shannon, Ireland; and Beijing, China. We also strategically
outsource some manufacturing to qualified suppliers who are highly capable of producing components.

We believe that our
manufacturing facilities are among the best in our industry in terms of automation and productivity and have the flexibility to accommodate future growth. The manufacturing operations at these facilities are designed to incorporate the cellular
concept for production and to implement tenets of a manufacturing philosophy focused on continuous improvement efforts in product quality, lead time reduction and capacity optimization. Our continuous improvement efforts are driven by Lean and
Six Sigma methodologies. In addition, at certain of our manufacturing facilities, many of the employees are cross-trained to perform a broad array of operations.

We generally target operating our manufacturing facilities at optimal levels of total capacity. We continually evaluate the potential toin-sourceand
out-source production as part of our manufacturing strategy to provide value to our stakeholders.

We have improved our manufacturing processes to protect our profitability and offset the
impact of inflationary costs. We have, for example, employed computer-assisted robots and multi-axis grinders to precision polish medical devices; automated certain manufacturing and inspection processes, including on-machine inspection and
process controls; purchased state-of-the-art equipment; in-sourced core products and processes; and negotiated cost reductions from third-party suppliers.

We use a diverse and broad range of raw materials in the manufacturing of our products. We purchase all of our raw materials and select components used in manufacturing our products from external
suppliers. In addition, we purchase some supplies from single sources for reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability, cost effectiveness or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We work closely with our suppliers
to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. To date, we have not experienced any significant difficulty in locating and obtaining the materials necessary to fulfill our production schedules.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY



Patents and other proprietary rights are important to the continued success of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how,
continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position. We protect our proprietary rights through a variety of methods, including confidentiality agreements and proprietary information
agreements with vendors, employees, consultants and others who may have access to proprietary information. We own or control through licensing arrangements more than 4,500 issued patents and patent applications throughout the world that relate to
aspects of the technology incorporated in many of our products.

EMPLOYEES



As of December 31, 2013, we
employed approximately 9,500 employees worldwide, including nearly 1,000 employees dedicated to research and development. Approximately 5,200 employees are located within the U.S. and approximately 4,300 employees are located outside
of the U.S., primarily throughout Europe and in Japan. We have approximately 3,900 employees dedicated to manufacturing our products worldwide. The Warsaw, Indiana production facility employs approximately 1,600 employees.

Approximately 180 U.S. employees are members of a trade union covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have a collective
bargaining agreement with the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC for and on behalf of Local 2737-15 covering employees at the Dover, Ohio facility,
which continues in effect until May 15, 2015.









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of February 20, 2014.



NameAgePositionDavid C. Dvorak50President and Chief Executive OfficerJames T. Crines54Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerJoseph A. Cucolo54President, AmericasDerek M. Davis45Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting OfficerKatarzyna Mazur-Hofsaess, M.D., Ph.D.50President, Europe, Middle East and AfricaStephen H.L. Ooi60President, Asia PacificChad F. Phipps42Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary



Mr. Dvorakwas appointed President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors in May 2007. From December 2005 to April 2007, he served as Group President, Global Businesses and Chief Legal
Officer. Prior to that, he had served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Services, Chief Counsel and Secretary, as well as Chief Compliance Officer, since October 2003. Mr. Dvorak joined Zimmer in 2001.

Mr. Crineswas appointed Executive
Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in May 2007. From December 2005 to April 2007, he served as Senior Vice President, Finance, Operations and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to that, he had served as Senior
Vice President, Finance/Controller and Information Technology since October 2003. Mr. Crines joined Zimmer in 1995.

Mr. Cucolowas appointed President, Americas in September 2012. He is responsible for sales and management of the direct and indirect
sales channels in the Americas region, including the United States, Canada and Latin America. From 1997 until he joined Zimmer as President, Americas, Mr. Cucolo was sole owner and President of Zimmer New England, Inc., an independent
third-party distributor of Zimmer products in the northeast region of the United States. Prior to that, Mr. Cucolo was employed by Zimmer as a sales representative and territory manager in the New York area from 1987 to 1997.

Mr. Daviswas appointed Vice
President, Finance and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in May 2007. He has responsibility for internal and external reporting, planning and analysis, and corporate and business unit accounting. From March 2006 to May 2007, he
served as Director, Financial Planning and Accounting. Prior to that, he had served as Director, Finance, Operations and Logistics since December 2003. Mr. Davis joined Zimmer in 2003.

Dr. Mazur-Hofsaesswas appointed President, Europe, Middle East and Africa in
April 2013. She is responsible for the sales, marketing and distribution of products in the European, Middle Eastern and African (EMEA) regions. Dr. Mazur-Hofsaess joined Zimmer in February 2010 as Senior Vice President, EMEA Sales and
Marketing and was appointed President, EMEA Reconstructive in February 2012. She has approximately 20 years’ experience within the pharmaceutical, diagnostics and medical device sectors. Prior to joining Zimmer, Dr. Mazur-Hofsaess served
as Vice President, Diagnostics – Europe of Abbott Laboratories from 2001.

Mr. Ooiwas appointed
President, Asia Pacific in December 2005. He is responsible for the sales, marketing and distribution of products in the Asia Pacific region. Prior to that, he had served as President, Australasia since September 2003. Mr. Ooi joined Zimmer in
1986.

Mr. Phippswas appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in May 2007. He has global responsibility for our legal affairs and he serves as Secretary to the Board of Directors. Mr. Phipps
also oversees our Corporate Compliance, Government Affairs, Corporate Marketing and Communications and Public Relations activities. From December 2005 to May 2007, he served as Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Prior to that, he had
served as Associate Counsel and Assistant Secretary since September 2003. Mr. Phipps joined Zimmer in 2003.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION



Our Internet
address is www.zimmer.com. We routinely post important information for investors on our website in the “Investor Relations” section, which may be accessed from our homepage at www.zimmer.com or directly at http://investor.zimmer.com. We
use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations section of our website, in addition to
following our press releases, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through which investors can easily find or
navigate to pertinent information about us, free of charge, including:

•our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the SEC;

•announcements of investor conferences and events at which our executives talk about our products and competitive strategies. Podcasts and archives of
these events are also available;

•press releases on quarterly earnings, product announcements, legal developments and other material news that we may post from time to time;

•corporate governance information including our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct, Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer
and Senior Financial Officers, information concerning our Board of Directors and its committees, including the charters of the Audit









ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.2013 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT



Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee, Corporate Governance Committee and Research, Innovation and Technology Committee, and other governance-related policies;

•stockholder services information, including ways to contact our transfer agent and information on how to sign up for direct deposit of dividends or
enroll in our dividend reinvestment plan; and

•opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information provided in real time.

The information available on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or a part of, this or any other report we file with or
furnish to the SEC.



