10-K


d263943d10k.htm

FORM 10-K

Form 10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT

PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

(MARK ONE)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission file number 001-06462

TERADYNE, INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

MASSACHUSETTS

04-2272148

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

600 RIVERPARK DRIVE

NORTH READING, MASSACHUSETTS


(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (978) 370-2700

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which
Registered

Common Stock, par value $0.125 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange
Act.    Yes

¨

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the proceeding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or in any amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (check
one):

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated
filer

¨

Non-accelerated filer

¨

Smaller reporting
company

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell
company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes

¨

No

x

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of July 1, 2011 was approximately $2.2
billion based upon the closing price of the registrant’s Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on that date.

The
number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s only class of Common Stock as of February 22, 2012 was 186,457,258 shares.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s
proxy statement in connection with its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III.


TERADYNE, INC.

FORM 10-K

PART I

Item 1:

Business

Teradyne, Inc. (the “Company” or “Teradyne”) was founded in 1960 and is a leading global supplier of automatic test
equipment.

We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems and solutions used to test complex electronics in
the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, wireless, and aerospace and defense industries. Our automatic test equipment products and services include:

•

semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems,

•

military/aerospace (“Mil/Aero”) test instrumentation and systems, storage test (“Storage Test”) systems, and circuit-board test and
inspection (“Commercial Board Test”) systems (collectively these products represent “Systems Test Group”), and

•

wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.

We have a broad customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (“OSATs”), wafer foundries, fabless
companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of integrated circuits (“ICs”), developers of wireless devices and consumer electronics, manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive companies, wireless product
manufacturers, storage device manufacturers, aerospace and military contractors as well as the United States Department of Defense.

In 2011, we acquired LitePoint Corporation (“LitePoint”) to expand our product portfolio of test equipment in the wireless test sector. LitePoint designs, develops, and supports advanced
wireless test solutions for the development and manufacturing of wireless devices, including smart phones, tablets, notebooks/laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi enabled devices. LitePoint is our Wireless Test segment.

In 2009, we entered the High Speed dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”) testing market with our UltraFlex-M
product. High speed DRAM memory devices are used for high-end graphics applications in personal computer and gaming consoles.

In 2009, we also entered the market for hard disk drive test systems with our Neptune product. The Neptune product line currently is used
to test 2.5 inch hard disk drives for laptops, notebooks and consumer electronic storage devices.

In 2008, we acquired
Nextest Systems Corporation (“Nextest”) and Eagle Test Systems, Inc. (“Eagle Test”) to expand our product portfolio of automatic test equipment for the semiconductor industry. Nextest develops systems to test integrated circuits
such as microcontrollers, image sensors, smart cards and field programmable logic devices for the flash memory, flash card and flash memory based system-on-a-chip (“SOC”) markets. Eagle Test develops systems to test analog, mixed-signal
and radio frequency semiconductors used in digital cameras, MP3 players, cellular telephones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics and notebook and desktop computers. Nextest and Eagle Test are included within our Semiconductor Test
segment.

Investor Information

We are a Massachusetts corporation incorporated on September 23, 1960. We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). We file
periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Such reports,



proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In
addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file documents electronically.

You can access financial and other information, including the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct, by clicking the Investors link on our web site at www.teradyne.com. We make available, free of charge, copies of our filings with the SEC, including our annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act through our web site as soon as reasonably practicable
after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC.

Products

Semiconductor Test

We design, manufacture, sell and support Semiconductor Test products and services on a worldwide basis. The test systems we provide are
used both for wafer level and device package testing. These chips are used in automotive, communications, consumer, computer and electronic game applications, among others. Semiconductor devices span a broad range of functionality, from very simple
low-cost devices such as appliance microcontrollers, operational amplifiers or voltage regulators to complex digital signal processors, microprocessors, high-density as well as high speed memory devices. Semiconductor Test products and services are
sold to IDMs that integrate the fabrication of silicon wafers into their business, “Fabless” companies that outsource the manufacturing of silicon wafers, “Foundries” that cater to the processing and manufacturing of silicon
wafers, and OSATs that provide test and assembly services for the final packaged devices to both Fabless companies and IDMs. Fabless companies perform the design of integrated circuits without manufacturing capabilities, and use Foundries for wafer
manufacturing and OSATs for test and assembly. These customers obtain the overall benefit of comprehensively testing devices and reducing the total costs associated with testing by using our Semiconductor Test systems to:

•

improve and control product quality;

•

measure and improve product performance;

•

reduce time to market; and

•

increase production yields.

Our FLEX Test Platform architecture advances our core technologies to produce test equipment that is designed for high efficiency multi-site testing. Multi-site testing involves the simultaneous testing
of many devices and functions in parallel. Leading semiconductor manufacturers are using multi-site testing to significantly improve their “Cost of Test” economics. The FLEX Test Platform architecture addresses customer requirements
through the following key capabilities:

1) A high efficiency multi-site architecture that eliminates tester overhead such as
instrument setup, synchronization and data movement, and signal processing;

2) The IG-XL™ software operating system which
provides fast program development, including instant conversion from single to multi-site test; and

3) Broad technology
coverage by instruments designed to cover the range of test parameters, coupled with a Universal Slot test head design that allows easy test system reconfiguration to address changing test needs.

FLEX Test Platform purchases are being made by IDMs, OSATs, Foundries and Fabless customers. The FLEX Test Platform has become a widely
used test solution at OSATs and test houses by providing versatile testers that can handle the widest range of devices, allowing OSATs to leverage their capital investments. The



broad consumer, automotive and broadband markets have historically driven most of the device volume growth in the semiconductor industry. These markets include smart phones, cell phones, set top
boxes, HDTVs, game controllers, computer graphics, and automotive controllers to name a few. These end use markets continue to be drivers for the FLEX Test Platform family of products because they require a wide range of technologies and instrument
coverage. The FLEX Test Platform has an installed base of more than 3,000 customer systems to date and it continues to grow. The introduction of the UltraFLEX-M tester in 2009 extends the FLEX Test Platform into the High Speed DRAM testing market.

Our J750™ test system shares the IG-XL software environment with the family of FLEX Test Platform systems. The J750 is
designed to address the highest volume semiconductor devices such as microcontrollers that are central to the functionality of almost every consumer electronics product, from small appliances to automotive engine controllers. J750 test systems
combine compact packaging, high throughput and ease of production test. We extended the J750 platform technology to create the IP750 Image Sensor™ test system. The IP750 is focused on testing image sensor devices used in digital cameras and
other imaging products. We continue to invest in the J750 platform with new instrument releases that bring new capabilities to existing market segments and expand the J750 platform to critical new devices that include high end microcontrollers and
the latest generation of cameras. The J750 platform has an installed base of over 3,700 systems and it continues to grow.

Our
acquisition of Nextest in January of 2008 expanded our product offerings to include the Magnum test platform. The Magnum products address the requirements of mass production test of memory devices such as flash memory and DRAM. Flash and DRAM memory
are widely used core building blocks in modern electronic products finding wide application in consumer, industrial, and computing equipment. Magnum II is the newest member of the family. With test rates up to 800 megabits per second and a versatile
architecture designed for maximal throughput, Magnum II tests flash and DRAM devices, an important advantage for large memory producers that manufacture both types of memory. The Magnum platform has an installed base of over 1,200 systems and it
continues to grow.

Our acquisition of Eagle Test in November of 2008 expanded our product offerings to include the ETS
platform. The ETS platform is used by semiconductor manufacturers and assembly and test subcontractors, primarily in the low pin count analog/mixed signal discrete markets that cover more cost sensitive applications. Eagle Test’s proprietary
SmartPin™ technology enables multiple semiconductor devices to be tested simultaneously, or in parallel, on an individual test system, permitting greater test throughput. Semiconductors tested by Eagle Test’s systems are incorporated into
a wide range of products in historically high-growth markets, including digital cameras, MP3 players, cell phones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics, computer peripherals, and notebook and desktop computers. The ETS platform has an
installed base of over 2,300 systems and it continues to grow.

Systems Test Group

Our Systems Test Group segment is comprised of three business units: Mil/Aero, Storage Test and Commercial Board Test.

Mil/Aero

Our expertise in the test and diagnosis of printed circuit boards (“PCB”) and subsystems has proven to be essential in supporting the ever-demanding military, defense and aerospace markets. Our
test solutions for these markets include high-performance systems, instruments and software solutions that manufacturers and repair depots depend on to ensure the readiness of military and commercial electronic systems.

New programs from tactical aircraft to missile systems, as well as widespread enhancement programs, continue to fuel the demand for high
performance test systems. We are a leading provider of test instrumentation and systems with performance well suited to the demands of military/aerospace electronics manufacturers and



repair depots worldwide. Success in this market is illustrated by our penetration into major Department of Defense programs across all U.S. military service branches and many allied military
services worldwide.

Storage Test

Leveraging our expertise in functional test and semiconductor test, we introduced the Neptune product line in 2009. This product is targeted at the high growth 2.5 inch hard disk drive market. In 2010, we
expanded our Neptune product line to address the enterprise drive market.

The storage growth for laptops, netbooks and
consumer electronics combined with the growth in storage density is driving the need for high density test solutions for the 2.5 inch HDD segment. The Neptune product line addresses the challenges of high throughput automated manufacturing
environments while at the same time meeting the performance requirements for next generation HDDs. Our products are targeted at the HDD manufacturers and used as part of the manufacturing and test process of drives.

Commercial Board Test

Our test and inspection systems are sold to the electronics manufacturers of cell phones, servers, computers, Internet switches, automobiles and military avionics systems worldwide.

We manufacture in-circuit test (“ICT”) systems that are used to assess electrical interconnections, verify interoperation and
find faulty circuits on fully assembled and soldered PCBs. Fast, accurate and cost-effective diagnostic capabilities are hallmark features of our ICT systems, including the TestStation™ and Spectrum™ product families used in a variety of
in-line, high-volume PCB test applications. Supporting technologies such as our patented SafeTest™ technology allow TestStation users to safely troubleshoot the low-voltage components and interconnects commonly found in battery-powered portable
consumer electronics and low-power commercial equipment. In addition to standard ICT equipment, we offer combinational test platforms and handler-ready in-line test systems for high-volume board manufacturing.

Wireless Test

Our acquisition of LitePoint in October of 2011 expanded our product offerings in the wireless test industry. LitePoint designs, develops,
and supports advanced wireless test solutions for the development and manufacturing of wireless devices, including smart phones, tablets, notebooks/laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi enabled devices. LitePoint collaborates with
developers, component manufacturers, and industry leaders to create agile systems capable of analyzing the entire wireless landscape. Using easy-to-deploy, innovative test methodologies running on software-controlled module design, LitePoint’s
IQ product line is designed for high-volume, low-cost product test. LitePoint’s products fall into two categories: cellular and connectivity.

Cellular

The LitePoint IQxstream™ is a
multi-DUT cellular communication solution for verification and calibration of 2G/3G/4G mobile devices including smart phones, tablets and data cards. The IQxstream’s non-signaling technology delivers test speeds which allow for superior test
coverage and increased throughput over traditional cellular test methods, thus avoiding economic vs. test quality tradeoffs common with slower, traditional approaches.

Connectivity

LitePoint offers a suite of
products for connectivity testing. The LitePoint IQ2010™ is a comprehensive one-box solution for multi-com connectivity needs including WiFi, Bluetooth, GPS, FM, WiMax and ZigBee. When combined with the IQxstream, the IQ2010 creates a system
for testing smart phones, tablets, and other multi-radio™ devices that include cellular technology. The LitePoint
IQflex

®

is a testing solution focused on



wireless LAN and Bluetooth manufacturing test. LitePoint IQnxnPlus™ and IQnxn

®

are testing solutions for complex WiFi and WiMAX devices that utilize multiple input and multiple output RF configurations commonly called MIMO, used in R&D
environments. The LitePoint IQview

®

helps simplify WiFi and Bluetooth device development. The IQview offers
compatibility with the IQflex manufacturing solution enabling test software developed on the IQview to run on the IQflex platform deployed in manufacturing environments.

LitePoint IQfact™ and IQfactPlus™ are turnkey, chipset specific, solutions enabling rapid volume
manufacturing with a minimum of engineering effort. IQfact solutions can be customized for a specific end product and then deployed on LitePoint test equipment.

Discontinued Operations

On March 21, 2011, our Diagnostic
Solutions business unit was sold to SPX Corporation. This business provided electronic test and diagnostic systems to the automotive OEMs and their major subcontractors. This business unit was in our Systems Test Group segment.

On August 1, 2007, our Broadband Test Division business was sold to Tollgrade Communications, Inc. This business provided test
systems for testing lines and qualifying lines for DSL telephone networks. This business unit was in our Other Test Systems segment.

Diagnostic Solutions and Broadband Test Division have been reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements.

Summary of Net Revenue by Reportable Segment

Our three reportable
segments accounted for the following percentages of consolidated net revenue for each of last three years:

Sales and Distribution

In fiscal years 2011 and 2010, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. In 2009, revenues from Western Digital Corporation accounted for more than 10% of our
consolidated net revenue. Western Digital Corporation is a customer of our Systems Test Group segment. In each of the years 2011, 2010 and 2009, our three largest customers in aggregate accounted for 19%, 21% and 27% of our consolidated net revenue,
respectively.

Direct sales to United States government agencies accounted for 2%, 1% and 4% of our consolidated net revenue
in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Approximately 8%, 8% and 14% of Systems Test Group’s revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, was to United States government agencies and 17%, 35% and 21% of Systems Test Group’s revenue in 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively, was to government contractor customers.

We have sales and service offices located throughout
North America, Asia and Europe, as our customers outside the United States are located primarily in these geographic areas. We sell in these areas predominantly through a direct sales force. Our manufacturing activities are primarily conducted
through subcontractors and outsourced contract manufacturers with a significant operation concentrated in China.



Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for 84%, 85% and 75% of our
consolidated net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to customers located in China were 13%, 9% and 5% of consolidated net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to customers located in Taiwan were 12%, 18% and 14% of
consolidated net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to customers located in Japan were 10%, 5% and 6% of our consolidated net revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to customers located in Malaysia were 10%, 13% and 12%
of our consolidated net revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to customers located in Korea were 10%, 8% and 5% of our consolidated net revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales are attributed to geographic areas based on
the location of the customer site.

See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors” and Note Q: “Operating Segment, Geographic
and Significant Customer Information” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Competition

We face significant competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Competitors in the Semiconductor Test segment
include, among others, Advantest Corporation (“Advantest”) and LTX–Credence Corporation (“LTX”). The merger between Advantest and Verigy may result in a combined company that may be a stronger competitor in certain markets.
Competitors in the Systems Test Group include, among others, Agilent Technologies, Inc. and Xyratex Ltd. Competitors in our Wireless Test segment include Agilent, Aeroflex, Inc., Anritsu Company and Rohde & Schwarz GmbH & Co. KG, among
others.

Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources to pursue engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also face competition from emerging Asian equipment companies and from internal suppliers at several of our customers. Some of our competitors have introduced or announced new products
with certain performance characteristics which may be considered equal or superior to those we currently offer. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new
technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance characteristics. See also “Item 1A: Risk Factors.”

Backlog

At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our backlog of unfilled orders in our three reportable segments was as follows:

Of the backlog at December 31, 2011, approximately 99% of the Semiconductor Test backlog, 91% of
Systems Test Group backlog, and 100% of Wireless Test backlog, is expected to be delivered in 2012.

Customers may delay
delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without significant notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellation of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not
necessarily indicative of the actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules and/or cancellations of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

Raw Materials

Our products contain electronic and mechanical components that are provided by a wide range of suppliers. Certain of these components are standard products, while others are manufactured to our
specifications. We can



experience occasional delays in obtaining timely delivery of certain items. While the majority of our components are available from multiple suppliers, certain items are obtained from sole
sources. We may experience a temporary adverse impact if any of our sole source suppliers delays or ceases to deliver products.

Intellectual Property and Licenses

The development of our products, both hardware and software, is based in significant part on proprietary information, our brands and technology. We protect our rights in proprietary information, brands
and technology through various methods, such as:

•

patents;

•

copyrights;

•

trademarks;

•

trade secrets;

•

standards of business conduct and related business practices; and

•

technology license agreements, software license agreements, non-disclosure agreements, employment agreements, and other agreements.

However, these protections might not be effective in all circumstances. Competitors might independently
develop similar technology or exploit our proprietary information and our brands in countries where we lack enforceable intellectual property rights or where enforcement of such rights through the legal system provides an insufficient deterrent.
Also, intellectual property protections can lapse or be invalidated through appropriate legal processes. We do not believe that any single piece of intellectual property or proprietary rights is essential to our business.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 3,200 people. Since the inception of our business, we have experienced no work stoppages or other labor disturbances. We have no collective bargaining contracts.

Engineering and Development Activities

The highly technical nature of our products requires a large and continuing engineering and development effort. Engineering and development expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009 were $195.6 million, $193.0 million, and $161.3 million, respectively. These expenditures amounted to approximately 14%, 12%, and 21% of consolidated net revenue in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

Environmental Affairs

We are subject to various federal, state, and local government laws and regulations relating to the protection of employee health and
safety and the environment. We accrue for all known environmental liabilities when it becomes probable that we will incur cleanup costs and those costs can reasonably be estimated. The amounts accrued do not cover sites that are in the preliminary
stages of investigation. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect the financial position or results of our operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup
periods and changing environmental remediation laws and regulations.



OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following table is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu
of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The table sets forth the names of all of our executive officers and certain other information relating to their positions held with Teradyne and other business
experience. Our executive officers do not have a specific term of office but rather serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

Item 1A:

Risk Factors

Risks Associated with Our Business

The risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect
our business, financial condition and/or operating results.

Our business is impacted by worldwide economic cycles, which are difficult
to predict.

Capital equipment providers in the electronics and semiconductor industries, such as Teradyne, have, in
the past, been negatively impacted by sudden slowdowns in the global economies, and resulting reductions in customer capital investments. The duration of slowdowns in customer capital investments are difficult to predict.

The global economy and financial markets experienced disruption in 2009 and 2008, including, among other things, extreme volatility in
security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of disruptions in financial markets,
credit availability, and adverse economic conditions throughout the world. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours and those of our customers and vendors in a number of ways that could result in unfavorable consequences to us.
Disruption and deterioration in economic conditions may reduce customer purchases of our products, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. In addition, such adverse decline in economic conditions may, among other things, result in increased
price competition for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories, increased risk in the collectability of our accounts receivable from our customers, increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of
accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues.



We have taken actions to address the effects of the economic crisis, including implementing
cost control and reduction measures. If our business has another downturn, we may need to take further cost control and reduction measures.

Our business is dependent on the current and anticipated market for electronics, which historically has been highly cyclical.

Our business and results of operations depend in significant part upon capital expenditures of manufacturers of semiconductors and other
electronics, which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for those products. As evidenced by our 2009 and 2008 business and results of operations, the market demand for electronics is impacted by economic slowdowns.
Historically, the electronics and semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of over-supply, which often have had a severe negative effect on demand for test equipment, including systems we manufacture and market. We
believe that the markets for newer generations of electronic products such as those that we manufacture and market will also be subject to similar fluctuations. We are dependent on the timing of orders from our customers, and the deferral or
cancellation of previous customer orders could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot ensure that the level of revenues or new orders for a fiscal quarter will be sustained in subsequent quarters. In addition, any factor
adversely affecting the electronics industry or particular segments within the electronics industry may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.

We are subject to intense competition.

We face significant
competition throughout the world in each of our reportable segments. Some of our competitors have substantial financial and other resources to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also face competition
from emerging Asian equipment companies and internal development at several of our customers. Some of our competitors have introduced or announced new products with certain performance characteristics which may be considered equal or superior to
those we currently offer. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance characteristics. New
product introductions by competitors could cause a decline in revenues or loss of market acceptance of our products.

Our operating
results are likely to fluctuate significantly.

Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that
could materially adversely affect revenues and profitability. The following factors are expected to impact future operations:

•

a worldwide economic slowdown or disruption in the global financial markets;

•

competitive pressures on selling prices;

•

our ability to introduce, and the market acceptance of, new products;

•

changes in product revenue mix resulting from changes in customer demand;

•

the level of orders received which can be shipped in a quarter because of the tendency of customers to wait until late in a quarter to commit to
purchase due to capital expenditure approvals and constraints occurring at the end of a quarter, or the hope of obtaining more favorable pricing from a competitor seeking the business;

•

engineering and development investments relating to new product introductions, and the expansion of manufacturing, outsourcing and engineering
operations in Asia;

•

provisions for excess and obsolete inventory relating to the lack of demand for and the discontinuance of products;

•

impairment charges for certain long-lived and intangible assets and goodwill;



•

parallel or multi-site testing could lead to a decrease in the ultimate size of the market for our products; and

•

the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet product quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for our products,
especially if product demand continues to increase.

As a result of the foregoing and other factors, we have
experienced and may continue to experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and stock price.

We are subject to risks of operating internationally.

A significant portion of our total revenue is derived from customers outside the United States. Our international sales and operations are subject to significant risks and difficulties, including:

•

unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements affecting international markets;

•

changes in tariffs and exchange rates;

•

social, political and economic instability, acts of terrorism and international conflicts;

•

difficulties in protecting intellectual property;

•

difficulties in accounts receivable collection;

•

cultural differences in the conduct of business;

•

difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and

•

compliance with customs regulations.

In addition, an increasing portion of our products and the products we purchase from our suppliers are sourced or manufactured in foreign locations, including China, and a large portion of the devices our
products test are fabricated and tested by foundries and subcontractors in Taiwan, Singapore, China and other parts of Asia. As a result, we are subject to a number of economic and other risks, particularly during times of political or financial
instability in these regions. Disruption of manufacturing or supply sources in these international locations could materially adversely impact our ability to fill customer orders and potentially result in lost business.

If we fail to develop new technologies to adapt to our customers’ needs and if our customers fail to accept our new products, our revenues
will be adversely affected.

We believe that our technological position depends primarily on the technical competence
and creative ability of our engineers. In a rapidly evolving market, such as ours, the development or acquisition of new technologies, commercialization of those technologies into products and market acceptance and customer demand for those products
are critical to our success. Successful product development or acquisition, introduction and acceptance depend upon a number of factors, including:

•

new product selection;

•

ability to meet customer requirements;

•

development of competitive products by competitors;

•

timely and efficient completion of product design;

•

timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and manufacturing processes;

•

timely remediation of product performance issues, if any, identified during testing;

•

assembly processes and product performance at customer locations;



•

differentiation of our products from our competitors’ products;

•

management of customer expectations concerning product capabilities and product life cycles;

•

ability to attract and retain technical talent; and

•

innovation that does not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties.

If our suppliers do not meet product or delivery requirements, we could have reduced revenues and earnings.

Certain components, including semiconductor chips, may be in short supply from time to time because of high industry demand or the
inability of some vendors to consistently meet our quality or delivery requirements. Approximately 30% of material purchases require some custom work where having multiple suppliers would be cost prohibitive. If any of our suppliers were to cancel
contracts or commitments or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for our products, we could lose time-sensitive customer orders and have significantly decreased revenues and earnings, which would have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we rely on contract manufacturers for certain subsystems used in our products, and our ability to meet customer orders for those products depends
upon the timeliness and quality of the work performed by these subcontractors, over whom we do not exercise any control.

To a
certain extent, we are dependent upon the ability of our suppliers and contractors to help meet increased product or delivery requirements. It may be difficult for certain suppliers to meet delivery requirements in a period of rapid growth,
therefore impacting our ability to meet our customers’ demands.

We rely on the financial strength of our suppliers.
There can be no assurance that the loss of suppliers either as a result of financial viability, bankruptcy or otherwise will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Our operations may be adversely impacted if our outsourced contract manufacturers or service providers fail to perform

.

We depend on Flextronics International Ltd. (“Flextronics”) to manufacture and test our FLEX and J750 family
of products from its facility in China and on other contract manufacturers to manufacture other products. If for any reason these contract manufacturers cannot provide us with these products in a timely fashion, or at all, we may not be able to sell
these products to our customers until we enter a similar arrangement with an alternative contract manufacturer. If we experience a problem with our supply of products from Flextronics or our other contract manufacturers, it may take us significant
time to either manufacture the product or find an alternate contract manufacturer, which could result in substantial expense and disruption to our business.

We have also outsourced a number of our general and administrative functions, including information technology, to reputable service providers, many of which are in foreign countries, sometimes impacting
communication with them because of language and time difficulties. Their presence in foreign countries also increases the risk they could be exposed to political risk. Additionally, there may be difficulties encountered in coordinating the
outsourced operations with existing functions and operations. If we fail in successfully coordinating and managing the outsourced service providers, it may cause an adverse effect on our operations which could result in a decline in our stock price.

We may not fully realize the benefits of our acquisitions or strategic alliances.

In October 2011, we acquired LitePoint Corporation (“LitePoint”). We may not be able to realize the benefit of acquiring
LitePoint or successfully grow LitePoint’s business. We may continue to acquire additional businesses, form strategic alliances or create joint ventures with third parties that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. We
may not be able to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration with our existing operations of other businesses or technologies that we may acquire. In addition, the



integration process for our acquisitions may be complex, costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing
and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a manner that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines and allows us to realize value from expected synergies. Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the
revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. Acquisitions may also result in one-time charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs or restructuring charges) or in the future, impairment of goodwill, that adversely affect
our operating results. Additionally, we may fund acquisitions of new businesses, strategic alliances or joint ventures by utilizing our cash, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or by other means.

We have increased our indebtedness.

On April 6, 2009, we completed a registered underwritten offering of $190.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes (the “Notes”) due March 15, 2014 and
received net proceeds of approximately $163.0 million. We used approximately $123.3 million of the net proceeds of this offering to repay all amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility. Although we are no longer subject to the
restrictive covenants under the revolving credit facility, we have incurred approximately $190.0 million principal amount of new indebtedness that the holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase upon the occurrence of certain fundamental
changes involving the Company. In addition, on March 31, 2009, our wholly-owned subsidiary in Japan, Teradyne K.K., incurred approximately $10.0 million in indebtedness that we guaranteed. The level of our indebtedness, among other things,
could:

•

make it difficult to make payments on our other obligations;

•

make it difficult to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes;

•

require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to service for indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow
available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; and

•

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete.

Our convertible note hedge and warrant transactions could impact the value of our stock.

Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, we entered into a convertible note hedge transaction with Goldman, Sachs & Co. (the
“hedge counterparty”) with a strike price equal to the initial conversion price of the Notes. The convertible note hedges cover, subject to customary antidilution adjustments, approximately 34,703,196 shares of our common stock.

Separately and concurrent with the pricing of the Notes, we entered into a warrant transaction with the hedge counterparty
with a strike price of $7.67 per share, which was 75% higher than the closing price of our common stock on March 31, 2009. The warrants will be net share settled and cover, subject to customary antidilution adjustments, approximately 31,963,470
shares of our common stock. On April 1, 2009, the hedge counterparty exercised its option to purchase warrants covering, subject to customary antidilution adjustments, an additional 2,739,726 shares of our common stock. However, we will not be
obligated to deliver to the hedge counterparty more than 34,526,500 shares of common stock upon exercise of the warrants (which amount represented less than 19.99% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 31, 2009, without giving
effect to any shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the warrant transaction), subject to customary antidilution adjustments.

The convertible note hedges are expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes. However, the warrant transaction could separately have a dilutive effect to
the extent



that the market value per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrant. The net cost of the convertible note hedge transaction to us, after being partially offset
by the proceeds from the sale of the warrants, was approximately $21.7 million.

In connection with establishing its initial
hedge of these convertible note hedge and warrant transactions, the hedge counterparty has entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or purchased shares of our common stock or other securities, including the
Notes, concurrent with, or shortly after, the pricing of the Notes. In addition, the hedge counterparty may modify its hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or by selling our
common stock or other securities, including the Notes, in secondary market transactions (and may do so during any observation period related to the conversion of the Notes). These activities could adversely impact the value of our common stock and
the Notes.

We have taken measures to significantly lower our fixed costs, which could have long-term negative effects on our business
or impact our ability to adequately address a rapid increase in customer demand.

We have taken measures to address
slowdowns in the market for our products. These measures include shifting more of our operations to lower cost regions, outsourcing manufacturing processes, divesting of certain businesses, implementing material cost reduction programs, reducing the
number of our employees, and reducing planned capital expenditures and expense budgets. We cannot ensure that the measures we have taken will not impair our ability to effectively develop and market products, to remain competitive in the industries
in which we compete, to operate effectively, to operate profitably during slowdowns or to effectively meet a rapid increase in customer demand. These measures may have long-term negative effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical
talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, making it more difficult to hire and retain talented individuals and to quickly respond to customers or competitors in an upward cycle.

We may incur significant liabilities if we fail to comply with environmental regulations.

We are subject to both domestic and international environmental regulations and statutory strict liability relating to the use, storage,
discharge, site cleanup and disposal of hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes. If we fail to comply with present and future regulations, or are required to perform site remediation, we could be subject to future liabilities or
cost, including penalties or the suspension of production. Present and future regulations may also:

•

restrict our ability to expand facilities;

•

restrict our ability to ship certain products into the European Union or elsewhere;

•

require us to modify our operations logistics;

•

require us to acquire costly equipment; or

•

require us to incur other significant costs and expenses.

Pursuant to present regulations and agreements, we are conducting groundwater and subsurface assessment and monitoring and are implementing remediation and corrective action plans for facilities located
in California, Massachusetts and New Hampshire which are no longer conducting manufacturing operations. As of December 31, 2011, we have not incurred material costs as result of the monitoring and remediation steps taken at the California,
Massachusetts and New Hampshire sites.

On January 27, 2003, the European Union adopted the following directives:
(i) the directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “RoHS Directive”); and (ii) the directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “WEEE
Directive”). The WEEE Directive became effective August 13, 2005 and the RoHS Directive became effective on July 6, 2006. Both the RoHS Directive and the WEEE Directive alter the form and manner in which electronic equipment is



imported, sold and handled in the European Union. Other jurisdictions, such as China, have followed the European Union’s lead in enacting legislation with respect to hazardous substances and
waste removal. Ensuring compliance with the RoHS Directive, the WEEE Directive and similar legislation in other jurisdictions, and integrating compliance activities with our suppliers and customers could result in additional costs and disruption to
operations and logistics and thus, could have a negative impact on our business, operations and financial condition.

We currently are
and in the future may be subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business.

From time to time,
we may be subject to litigation or other administrative and governmental proceedings that could require significant management time and resources and cause us to incur expenses and, in the event of an adverse decision, pay damages in an amount that
could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.

Third parties may claim we are infringing
their intellectual property and we could suffer significant litigation costs, licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products.

We have been sued for patent infringement in the past and receive notifications from time to time that we may be in violation of patents held by others. An assertion of patent infringement against us, if
successful, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our product or it could force us to seek a license to the intellectual property rights of others or alter such products so that they no longer infringe the intellectual property
rights of others. A license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing the rights of others may be costly or impractical. Additionally, patent litigation could
require a significant use of management resources and involve a lengthy and expensive defense, even if we eventually prevail. If we do not prevail, we might be forced to pay significant damages, obtain licenses, modify our products, or stop making
our products; each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.

We may incur higher
tax rates than we expect and may have exposure to additional international tax liabilities and costs.

We are subject
to paying income taxes in the United States and various other countries where we operate. Our effective tax rate is dependent on where our earnings are generated and the tax regulations and the interpretation and judgment of administrative tax or
revenue entities in the United States and other countries. We have pursued a global tax strategy which could adversely be affected by our failure to expand operations or earnings in certain countries, the mix of earnings and tax rates in the
countries where we operate, changes to tax laws or an adverse tax ruling by administrative entities. We are also subject to tax audits in the countries where we operate. Any material assessment resulting from an audit from an administrative tax or
revenue entity could also negatively affect our financial results.

As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income
taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. In certain foreign jurisdictions, we qualify for tax incentives based on our ability to meet, on a continuing basis, various tests relating to our
employment levels, research and development expenditures and other qualification requirements in a particular foreign jurisdiction. While we intend to operate in such a manner to maintain and maximize our tax incentives, no assurance can be given
that we have so qualified or that we will so qualify for any particular year or jurisdiction. If we fail to qualify and to remain qualified for certain foreign tax incentives, we may be subject to further taxation or an increase in our effective tax
rate which would adversely impact our financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs, including headcount expenses, in order to obtain or maintain a foreign tax incentive in a particular foreign jurisdiction.



We have significant guarantees and indemnification obligations.

From time to time, we make guarantees to customers regarding the performance of our products and guarantee certain indebtedness,
performance obligations or lease commitments of our subsidiary and affiliate companies. We also have agreed to provide indemnification to our officers, directors, employees and agents, to the extent permitted by law, arising from certain events or
occurrences while the officer, director, employee or agent, is or was serving at our request in such capacity. If we become liable under any of these obligations, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and
operating results. For additional information see Note J: “Commitments and Contingencies—Guarantees and Indemnification Obligations” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

If we are unable to protect our intellectual property (“IP”), we may lose a valuable asset or may incur costly litigation to protect our
rights.

We protect the technology that is incorporated in our products in several ways, including through patent,
copyright, and trade secret protection and by contractual agreement. However, even with these protections, our IP may still be challenged, invalidated or subject to other infringement actions. While we believe that our IP has value in the aggregate,
no single element of our IP is in itself essential. If a significant portion of our IP is invalidated or ineffective, our business could be materially adversely affected.

Our business may suffer if we are unable to attract and retain key employees.

Competition for employees with skills we require is intense in the high technology industry. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain key technical employees. The loss of one or more
key or other employees, a decrease in our ability to attract additional qualified employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could each have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

We may have additional pension funding obligations as a result of the weak performance of financial markets and its effect on plan assets.

Our future funding obligations for our U.S. defined benefit pension plan qualified with the Internal Revenue Service
(“IRS”) depend upon the future performance of assets for this plan, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plan and any changes in government laws and regulations. Our U.S.
qualified defined benefit pension plan currently holds a significant amount of fixed income securities. As of December 31, 2011, our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan had a funded status of approximately 102%. Due to significant
declines in financial markets and deterioration in the value of our plan assets in 2008, we made additional discretionary contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan in 2009 and 2010 and may have to make additional contributions
in future reporting periods, which may negatively affect our cash flow.

The natural disasters in Japan and the Philippines could
disrupt our operations and those of our customers and adversely affect our results of operations.

The recent events in
Japan and the Philippines, including earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding and the related damage, created economic uncertainty in those countries. Based on a review of our global supply chain and the customers’ test facilities we serve in Japan and
the Philippines, we do not expect a significant impact on our ability to manufacture and sell our products, however, there can be no assurance that an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results will not result from
these events.



Our operations and the operations of our customers and suppliers are subject to risks of natural
catastrophic events, widespread health epidemics, acts of war, terrorist attacks and the threat of domestic and international terrorist attacks, any one of which could result in cancellation of orders, delays in deliveries or other business
activities, or loss of customers and could negatively affect our business and results of operations.

Our business is
international in nature, with our sales, service and administrative personnel and our customers and suppliers located in numerous countries throughout the world. Our operations and those of our customers and suppliers are subject to disruption for a
variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, health epidemics, fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, volcanic eruptions, energy shortages, telecommunication failures, tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters. Such disruption
could materially increase our costs and expenses as well as cause delays in, among other things, shipments of products to our customers, our ability to perform services requested by our customers, or the installation and acceptance of our products
at customer sites. Any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.

Provisions of our charter and by-laws and Massachusetts law make a takeover of Teradyne more difficult.

There are provisions in our basic corporate documents and under Massachusetts law that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control, even if a change in control may be regarded as beneficial to
some or all of our stockholders.

Item 1B:

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.



Item 2:

Properties

The following table provides certain information as to our principal general offices and manufacturing facilities.

+

Major activities have been separated into the following categories: 1. Corporate Administration, 2. Sales Support and Manufacturing, 3. Engineering and Development, 4.
Marketing, 5. Sales and Administration, 6. Storage and Distribution.

Item 3:

Legal Proceedings

We are subject to legal proceedings, claims and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business such as, but not limited to, patent, employment, commercial and environmental matters. We
believe that we have meritorious defenses against all pending claims and intend to vigorously contest them. While it is not possible to predict or determine the outcomes of any pending claims or to provide possible ranges of losses that may arise,
we believe the potential losses associated with all of these actions are unlikely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.

Item 4:

Mine Safety Disclosure: Not Applicable



PART II

Item 5:

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table shows the market range for our common stock based on reported sales price on the New York Stock Exchange.

The number of record holders of our common stock at February 22, 2012 was 2,478.

We have never paid cash dividends because it has been our policy to use earnings to finance expansion and growth. Payment of future cash
dividends will rest within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, upon our earnings, capital requirements, and financial condition.

See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Equity Compensation Plans,” for information on our equity compensation plans and our
performance graph.

In November 2007, Teradyne’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) authorized a $400 million
stock repurchase program. This stock repurchase program was suspended by the Board on November 4, 2008. The cumulative repurchases as of December 31, 2008, totaled 8.5 million shares of common stock for $102.6 million at an average
price of $12.14 per share.

In November 2010, the Board cancelled the November 2007 stock repurchase program and authorized a
new stock repurchase program for up to $200 million. The cumulative repurchases as of December 31, 2011 totaled 2.6 million shares of common stock for $31.2 million at an average price of $11.84.

The following table includes information with respect to repurchases we made of our common stock during the quarter ended
December 31, 2011 (in thousands except per share price):

Period

(a) Total

Number of

Shares

(or Units)

Purchased

(b) Average

Price Paid 
per

Share (or Unit)

(c) Total Number 
of

Shares (or Units)

Purchased as Part of

Publicly Announced

Plans or Programs

(d) Maximum Number

(or 
Approximate Dollar

Value) of Shares (or

Units) that May Yet Be

Purchased Under the

Plans or Programs

October 3, 2011 – October 30, 2011


$

11.18

2,633

$

168,825

October 31, 2011 – November 27, 2011

—

$

—

—

$

168,825

November 28, 2011 – December 31, 2011

—

$

—

—

$

168,825

We satisfy the minimum withholding tax obligation due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted
stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the withholding amount due.



Item 6:

Selected Financial Data

(1)

As a result of the divestiture of Diagnostic Test Solutions in 2011 and Broadband Test Division in 2007, we are reporting both business units as discontinued operations
for all periods presented.

(2)

The Consolidated Statement of Operations Data for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes the results of operations of LitePoint from October 5, 2011, and
for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes the results of operations of Nextest from January 24, 2008 and the results of operations of Eagle Test from November 15, 2008.

(3)

The Consolidated Statement of Operations Data for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes a tax benefit of $129.3 million due primarily to the release of the deferred
tax valuation allowance.

(4)

The Consolidated Statement of Operations Data for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes $32.6 million of severance charges and $3.7 million of facilities
charges related to the early exit of leased facilities.

(5)

The Consolidated Statement of Operations Data for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes a $329.7 million goodwill impairment charge.

(6)

The Consolidated Statement of Operations Data for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes $27.3 million of restructuring charges, primarily related to
severance, $20.9 million of costs related to loss on sale of land and buildings and $12.0 million of facility charges related to accelerated depreciation.

Item 7:

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not historical facts, so called “forward looking statements,” are made
pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Investors are cautioned that all forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those detailed in Teradyne’s
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which reflect management’s analysis only as of the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update these
forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law.



Overview

We are a leading global supplier of automatic test equipment. We design, develop, manufacture, and sell automatic test systems and solutions used to test complex electronics in the consumer electronics,
automotive, computing, telecommunications, wireless, and aerospace and defense industries. Our automatic test equipment products and services include:

•

semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems; and

•

military/aerospace (“Mil/Aero”) test instrumentation and systems, storage test systems (“Storage Test”), circuit-board test and
inspection (“Commercial Board Test”) systems, collectively these products represent “Systems Test Group”; and

•

wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.

We have a broad customer base which includes integrated device manufacturers (“IDMs”), outsourced semiconductor assembly and test providers (“OSATs”), wafer foundries, fabless
companies that design, but contract with others for the manufacture of integrated circuits (“ICs”), developers of wireless devices and consumer electronics, manufacturers of circuit boards, automotive companies, wireless product
manufacturers, storage device manufacturers, aerospace and military contractors as well as the United States Department of Defense.

In 2011, we acquired LitePoint Corporation (“LitePoint”) to expand our product portfolio of test equipment in the wireless test sector. LitePoint designs, develops, and supports advanced
wireless test solutions for the development and manufacturing of wireless devices, including smart phones, tablets, notebooks/laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi enabled devices. LitePoint is our Wireless Test segment.

The sales of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers who are subject to cyclical trends in
the demand for their products. These cyclical periods have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our business since our customers often delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and to demand
fluctuations in the semiconductor industry. Historically, these demand fluctuations have resulted in significant variations in our results of operations. This was particularly relevant beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 where we saw
a significant decrease in revenue in our Semiconductor Test business which was impacted by the deteriorating global economy, which negatively impacted the entire semiconductor industry. The sharp swings in the semiconductor industry in recent years
have generally affected the semiconductor test equipment and services industry more significantly than the overall capital equipment sector.

We believe our acquisitions of Nextest, Eagle Test and LitePoint, and our entry into the high speed memory and storage test markets have enhanced our opportunities for growth. We will continue to invest
in our business to expand further our addressable markets while tightly managing our costs.

We regularly face price
competition in each of our businesses. More recently, we have been subject to greater price competition in the Semiconductor Test segment. We intend to respond to competitive pricing moves as necessary, which may adversely impact our gross margins.
Longer term, we will continue to invest in engineering to lower the cost of test which should help mitigate the impacts from aggressive pricing actions.

On March 21, 2011, we completed the sale of our Diagnostic Solutions business unit, which was included in the Systems Test Group segment, to SPX Corporation for $40.2 million in cash. We sold this
business as its growth potential as a stand-alone business was significantly less than if it was part of a larger automotive supplier. The financial information for Diagnostic Solutions has been reclassified to discontinued operations.



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

We have identified the policies discussed below as critical to understanding our business and our results of operations and financial
condition. The impact and any associated risks related to these policies on our business operations is discussed throughout Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations where such policies affect our
reported and expected financial results.

Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts
of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those related to inventories, investments, goodwill, intangible and other long-lived
assets, bad debts, income taxes, deferred tax assets, pensions, warranties, contingencies, and litigation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on appropriate and customary assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under
the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition

In October 2009, FASB amended the accounting standards for revenue recognition to remove tangible products containing non-software and software components that function together to deliver the
product’s essential functionality from the scope of industry-specific software revenue recognition guidance. In October 2009, the FASB also amended the accounting standards for arrangements with multiple deliverables. We elected to early adopt
this accounting guidance at the beginning of our first quarter of 2010 on a prospective basis. Adoption had no material impact on our financial position or results of operations in 2010 and 2011.

We recognize revenue when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, title and risk of loss have passed, delivery has occurred or
the services have been rendered, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collection of the related receivable is reasonably assured. Title and risk of loss generally pass to our customers upon shipment or at delivery destination point. In
circumstances where either title or risk of loss pass upon destination, acceptance or cash payment, we defer revenue recognition until such events occur.

Our equipment has non-software and software components that function together to deliver the equipment’s essential functionality. Revenue is recognized upon shipment or at delivery destination point,
provided that customer acceptance criteria can be demonstrated prior to shipment. Certain contracts require us to perform tests of the product to ensure that performance meets the published product specifications or customer requested
specifications, which are generally conducted prior to shipment. Where the criteria cannot be demonstrated prior to shipment, revenue is deferred until customer acceptance has been received. We also defer the portion of the sales price that is not
due until acceptance, which represents deferred profit.

For multiple element arrangements, we allocate revenue to all
deliverables based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, a hierarchy is used to determine the selling price for allocating revenue to deliverables as follows: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price
(“VSOE”), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (“TPE”), and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (“BESP”). For a delivered item to be considered a separate unit, the delivered item must have value to
the customer on a standalone basis and the delivery or performance of the undelivered item must be considered probable and substantially in our control.

Our post-shipment obligations include installation, training services, one-year standard warranties, and extended warranties. Installation does not alter the product capabilities, does not require
specialized skills or tools and can be performed by the customers or other vendors. Installation is typically provided within five days of product shipment and is completed within one to two days thereafter. Training services are optional and do not



affect the customers’ ability to use the product. We defer revenue for the selling price of installation and training. Extended warranties constitute warranty obligations beyond one year and
we defer revenue in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 605-20,

“Separately Priced Extended Warranty and Product Maintenance Contracts.”

Our products are generally subject to warranty and related costs of the warranty are provided for in cost of revenue when
product revenue is recognized. We classify shipping and handling costs in cost of revenue. Service revenue is recognized over the contractual period or as the services are performed.

We generally do not provide our customers with contractual rights of return for any of our products.

For transactions involving the sale of software, revenue is recognized in accordance with ASC 985-605,

“Software Revenue
Recognition.”

We recognize revenue when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is probable. In instances where an arrangement contains multiple
elements, revenue related to the undelivered elements is deferred to the extent that vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (“VSOE”) exists for such elements. In instances where VSOE does not exist for one or more of the
undelivered elements of an arrangement, all revenue related to the arrangement is deferred until all elements have been delivered. VSOE is the price charged when the element is sold separately. Revenue for the separate elements is only recognized
where the functionality of the undelivered element is not essential to the delivered element.

For certain contracts eligible
for contract accounting under ASC 605-35,

“Revenue Recognition Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts,”

revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion accounting method based upon the percentage of incurred costs
to estimated total costs. These arrangements require significant production, modification, or customization. In all cases, changes to total estimated costs and anticipated losses, if any, are recognized in the period in which they are determined.
With respect to contract change orders, claims or similar items, judgment must be used in estimating related amounts and assessing the potential for realization. Such amounts are only included in the contract value when they can be reliably
estimated and realization is reasonably assured, generally upon receipt of a customer approved change order.

Inventories

Inventories, which include materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead, are stated at the lower of cost (first-in,
first-out basis) or net realizable value. On a quarterly basis, we use consistent methodologies to evaluate all inventories for net realizable value. We record a provision for both excess and obsolete inventory when such write-downs or write-offs
are identified through the quarterly review process. The inventory valuation is based upon assumptions about future demand, product mix, and possible alternative uses.

Equity Incentive and Stock Purchase Plans

Stock-based compensation
expense is based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of ASC 718-10 “

Compensation—Stock Compensation

”. As required by ASC 718-10, we have made an estimate of expected forfeitures and are
recognizing compensation costs only for those stock-based compensation awards expected to vest.

Income Taxes

On a quarterly basis, we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by jurisdiction and assess the need for a valuation
allowance. We consider the probability of future taxable income and our historical profitability, among other factors, in assessing the amount of the valuation allowance. As a result of this review, undertaken at December 31, 2002, we concluded
under applicable accounting criteria that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets would not be realized and established a valuation allowance in several jurisdictions, most notably the United States. At December 31, 2011, we
reassessed this judgment and concluded



that it is more likely than not that a substantial majority of our deferred tax assets will be realized through consideration of both the positive and negative evidence. The evidence consisted
primarily of our three year U.S. historical cumulative profitability, projected future taxable income, forecasted utilization of the deferred tax assets and the fourth quarter of 2011 acquisition of LitePoint offset by the volatility of the
industries we operate in, primarily the semiconductor industry. As such, we reduced the valuation allowance by $190.2 million, which was recorded as a tax benefit in the year ended December 31, 2011. We maintain a valuation allowance for certain
deferred tax assets of $51.1 million, primarily related to excess stock compensation deductions associated with pre-2006 activity, state net operating losses and state tax credit carryforwards, due to uncertainty regarding their realization.
Adjustments could be required in the future if we estimate that the amount of deferred tax assets to be realized is more or less than the net amount we have recorded.

Investments

We account for our investments in debt and equity
securities in accordance with the provisions of ASC 320-10, “

Investments—Debt and Equity Securities.

”

On a quarterly basis, we review our investments to identify and evaluate those that have an indication of a potential
other-than-temporary impairment. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is other-than-temporary include:

•

The length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost;

•

The financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; and

•

The intent and ability to retain the investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.

Goodwill, Intangible and Long-Lived Assets

In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, “

Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for
Impairment.

” This new guidance is intended to simplify goodwill impairment testing by allowing companies to first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that goodwill might be impaired and whether it
is necessary to perform the current two-step goodwill impairment test. We adopted this guidance in the fourth quarter of 2011 and determined that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit is less than its carrying
value.

We assess the impairment of identifiable intangibles, long-lived assets, and goodwill whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important in the determination of an impairment include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant
changes in the manner that we use the acquired asset and significant negative industry or economic trends. When we determine that the carrying value of intangibles and long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more
of the above indicators of impairment, we measure any impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate commensurate with the associated risks. We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually in the fourth
quarter, on a reporting unit basis, or more frequently, when events and circumstances occur indicating that the recorded goodwill may be impaired. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the implied fair value of goodwill is
compared with the carrying amount of goodwill. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, an impairment loss is recorded in an amount equal to that excess.



SELECTED RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN THE CONSOLIDATED

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Results of Operations

Book to Bill Ratio

Book to bill ratio is calculated as net bookings
divided by net sales. Book to bill ratio by reportable segment was as follows:



Revenues

Net revenues for our three reportable segments were as follows:

Semiconductor Test revenue decreased $307.1 million or approximately 22% from 2010 to 2011, due to a
decrease in system-on-a-chip (“SOC”) product sales. Semiconductor Test product demand can fluctuate significantly from year to year based upon semiconductor device unit growth and installed base utilization. The 2011 decrease was due to
lower volume from reduced demand.

Semiconductor Test revenue increased $860.9 million or approximately 156% from 2009 to
2010, due to a strong recovery in the semiconductor market, particularly in SOC test, and due to our strong market share in the higher growth Semiconductor Test segments such as power management, wireless and microcontroller.

The increase in Systems Test Group revenue of $141.6 million or approximately 93% from 2010 to 2011 was primarily due to the increase in
sales of Storage Test systems, which was driven by new customers and new product applications.

The decrease in Systems Test
Group revenue of $72.1 million or approximately 32% from 2009 to 2010 was primarily due to the decrease in sales of Storage Test systems and Mil/Aero systems and instruments, partially offset by an increase in Commercial Board Test sales.

The acquisition of LitePoint which was completed in October of 2011 added $28.4 million of revenue in 2011. Litepoint is our
Wireless Test segment.

Our three reportable segments accounted for the following percentages of consolidated net revenue for
each of the last three years:

Net revenue by region as a percentage of total revenue was as follows:



The breakout of product and service revenue for the past three years was as follows:

Our product revenue decreased $170.8 million or 13% in 2011 from 2010 primarily due to lower sales of SOC
Semiconductor Test products. Semiconductor Test product sales demand can fluctuate significantly from year to year based upon semiconductor device unit growth and installed base utilization. The 2011 decrease was due to lower volume from reduced
demand. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in sales of Storage Test systems, which was driven by new customers and new product applications. The LitePoint acquisition which was completed in October of 2011 added $27.8 million of
product revenue in 2011. Service revenue, which is derived from the servicing of our installed base of products and includes maintenance contracts, repairs, extended warranties, parts sales, and applications support, increased $33.7 million or 14%
due to higher volume.

Our product revenue increased $754.5 million or 131% in 2010 from 2009 primarily due to higher sales
across all Semiconductor Test products. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in sales of Storage Test systems and Mil/Aero systems and instruments. Service revenue increased $34.3 million or 17%, due to higher volume.

In fiscal year 2011 and 2010, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue. In 2009, revenues from one
customer accounted for 13% of our consolidated net revenue. In each of the years 2011, 2010 and 2009, our three largest customers in aggregate accounted for 19%, 21% and 27% of our consolidated net revenue, respectively.

Gross Profit

Gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased from 2010 to 2011 by 4.8 percentage points. This
decrease was the result of a decrease of 2.9 points related to product mix primarily from higher Storage Test system sales, a decrease of 0.9 points for a charge to adjust LitePoint acquired inventory to fair value, a decrease of 0.5 points due to
lower volume, and a decrease of 0.3 points due to higher inventory provisions.

Gross profit as a percentage of revenue
increased from 2009 to 2010 by 16.2 percentage points. This increase in gross profit was the result of an increase of 8.9 points due to higher product sales volume, an increase of 6.6 points related to product mix and an increase of 1.8 points due
to lower inventory provisions. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of 1.2 points primarily due to higher variable compensation.



The breakout of product and service gross profit was as follows:

We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and
comparing that demand against on-hand and on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenue information is obtained from the sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future revenue demand. This quarterly process
identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next four
quarters, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.

During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded an
inventory provision of $11.6 million included in cost of revenues, due to the downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels. Of the $11.6 million of total excess and obsolete provisions recorded in 2011, $10.4 million was related to
Semiconductor Test primarily due to product transition, $1.1 million was related to Systems Test Group, and $0.1 million was related to Wireless Test.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded an inventory provision of $6.0 million included in cost of revenues, due to the downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels. Of the
$6.0 million of total excess and obsolete provisions recorded in 2010, $4.5 million was related to Semiconductor Test and $1.5 million was related to Systems Test Group.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded an inventory provision of $24.8 million included in cost of revenues, due to the following factors:

—

Downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels as a result of worsening economic conditions experienced in the semiconductor and automotive industries
primarily in the first half of 2009 resulted in an inventory provision of $13.5 million for inventory not expected to be consumed;

—

A decline in demand versus forecast for our Liquid Crystal Display (“LCD”) test product due to the global economic downturn, lower product pricing by
competitors, the introduction of a new product by a competitor and consolidation among a number of the expected buyers of the product, resulted in an inventory provision of $8.6 million; and

—

During late 2008, we introduced the next versions of our Nextest Magnum memory test product. At that time, it was anticipated that demand would continue for the
existing version of the product within its installed base of customers. An overall decline in the memory market combined with a portion of our customers accelerating their purchasing of the newer version of the product resulted in an inventory
provision of $2.7 million.

Of the $24.8 million of total excess and obsolete provisions recorded in 2009, $20.3
million was related to Semiconductor Test and $4.5 million was related to Systems Test Group.

During the year ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we scrapped $9.2 million, $4.7 million and $29.6 million of inventory, respectively, and sold $8.1 million, $8.3 million and $4.3 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively. As of
December 31, 2011, we had inventory related reserves for amounts which had been written-down or written-off totaling $123.5 million. We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.



Engineering and Development

Engineering and development expenses were as follows:

The increase of $2.6 million in engineering and development expenses from 2010 to 2011 was due primarily
to additional costs of $6.0 million related to the acquisition of LitePoint in October 2011, partially offset by lower variable compensation.

The increase of $31.7 million in engineering and development expenses from 2009 to 2010 was due primarily to an $18.6 million increase in variable compensation and $6.2 million increase from the
restoration of temporary salary reductions.

Selling and Administrative

Selling and administrative expenses were as follows:

The increase of $6.9 million in selling and administrative expenses from 2010 to 2011 was due primarily
to additional costs of $9.7 million related to the acquisition of LitePoint in October 2011, partially offset by lower variable compensation.

The increase of $31.4 million in selling and administrative expenses from 2009 to 2010 was due primarily to a $25.1 million increase in variable compensation and $9.9 million from the restoration of
temporary salary reductions, partially offset by a $5.3 million decrease in other spending related to workforce reductions and other cost reduction initiatives taken in 2009.

Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization

Acquired intangible assets
amortization expense was as follows:

Acquired intangible assets amortization expense increased from 2010 to 2011 due to the LitePoint
acquisition which was completed in October of 2011.

Acquired intangible assets amortization expense decreased from 2009 to
2010 because intangible assets related to the 2001 GenRad acquisition were fully amortized in 2009.



Restructuring and Other

Restructuring

In response to a downturn in the industry in 2008 and 2009, we
implemented restructuring activities across all segments to reduce costs, principally through headcount reductions and facility consolidations. The remaining accrual for severance and benefits of $0.3 million is reflected in the accrued
employees’ compensation and withholdings account on the balance sheet and is expected to be paid by July 2012. The remaining accrual for lease payments on vacated facilities of $1.9 million is reflected in the other accrued liabilities account
and the long-term other accrued liabilities account, and is expected to be paid out over the lease terms, the latest of which expires in 2013. We expect to pay approximately $0.9 million against the lease accruals over the next twelve months. Our
future lease commitments, as of December 31, 2011, are net of expected sublease income of $0.5 million. As of December 31, 2011, we have subleased approximately 37% of our unoccupied space.

During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded the following restructuring activities:

Q1 2011 Actions:

–

$0.6 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of 5 people in Semiconductor Test.

Q2 2011 Actions:

–

$0.3 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of 2 people in Semiconductor Test.

Q2 2010 Actions:

–

$0.2 million related to a change in the estimated severance benefits related to headcount reductions in Semiconductor Test.

Q4 2010 Actions:

–

$0.1 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions in Semiconductor Test.

Pre-2009 Actions:

–

$(0.5) million credit related to changes in the estimated exit costs related to the Westford, MA and Poway, CA facilities in System Test Group, and the North Reading,
MA facility in Semiconductor Test and System Test Group.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, we
recorded the following restructuring activities:

Q1 2010 Actions:

–

$0.4 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 4 people in Semiconductor Test.

Q2 2010 Actions:

–

$0.9 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 6 people in Systems Test Group.

Q3 2010 Actions:

–

$0.4 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 10 people in Systems Test Group.

Q4 2010 Actions:

–

$0.1 million of severance charges related to the headcount reduction of 1 person in Systems Test Group.



Q2 2009 Actions:

–

$0.3 million related to a change in the estimated severance benefits related to headcount reduction activities in Semiconductor Test and System Test Group.

Pre-2009 Actions:

–

$(2.7) million credit related to the early exit of previously impaired leased facilities in Westford, Massachusetts.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded the following restructuring activities:

Q1 2009 Activity:

–

$17.2 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 515 people, of which $14.9 million and 460 people were in Semiconductor Test, $1.5
million and 39 people were in Systems Test Group, and $0.8 million and 16 people were in Corporate.

Q2 2009 Activity:

–

$15.4 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 304 people, of which $11.4 million and 267 people were in Semiconductor Test, $3.0
million and 25 people were in Corporate, and $1.0 million and 12 people were in Systems Test Group.

Q3 2009 Activity:

–

$4.1 million of charges in Corporate related to the early exit of a leased facility in North Reading.

Pre-2009 Activity:

–

$(0.4) million credit in Semiconductor Test for a revision in estimated sublease income at an exited leased facility in Ontario, Canada.

Other

During the year
ended December 31, 2011, we recorded $7.3 million of other charges related to the following:

–

$4.6 million related to LitePoint acquisition costs; and

–

$2.7 million related to non-U.S pension settlements.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded $(1.0) million of other net credits related to the following:

–

$1.1 million of long-lived asset impairment charges across both segments primarily related to the disposal of fixed assets as a result of the consolidation of
facilities in North Reading, Massachusetts;

–

$(2.0) million of credits related to finalization of certain Eagle Test purchase accounting items; and

–

$(0.1) million related to other miscellaneous.

Interest and Other



Interest income increased by $0.7 million, from $5.9 million in 2010 to $6.6 million in
2011, due primarily to higher cash and marketable securities balances in 2011.

Interest income increased by $2.5 million,
from $3.4 million in 2009 to $5.9 million in 2010, due primarily to a gain on sale of auction rate securities.

Interest
expense and other decreased by $0.8 million, from $24.5 million in 2010 to $23.7 million in 2011, due primarily to a loss on the exercise of the auction rate securities related UBS Put recorded in 2010, partially offset by higher convertible debt
discount amortization in 2011.

Interest expense and other increased by $2.1 million, from $22.4 million in 2009 to $24.5
million in 2010, due primarily to a $6.0 million increase in interest expense related to our convertible senior notes and a loss of $2.7 million on the exercise of the auction rate security related UBS Put. In 2009, interest expense and other
included $2.5 million for the write off of the remaining revolving credit facility issue costs due to the termination of our revolving credit facility agreement, $2.1 million in interest expense related to the revolving credit facility, and $2.8
million realized loss on sale and impairment of marketable securities.

Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes

The decrease in income from continuing operations before income taxes from 2010 to 2011 was primarily due
to lower revenue in 2011 compared to 2010, an $11.2 million increase in intangible assets amortization, a $12.2 million charge to adjust LitePoint acquired inventory to fair value and a $9.0 million increase in restructuring and other costs.

The increase in income from continuing operations before income taxes from 2009 to 2010 was primarily due to higher revenue
in 2010 compared to 2009 and lower restructuring and other costs in 2010.

Income Taxes

The income tax benefit from continuing operations for 2011 totaled $129.3 million, primarily attributable to the reduction of our deferred
income tax valuation allowance. We considered the weight of both the positive and negative evidence as of December 31, 2011 and concluded that a substantial majority of the deferred tax assets will be realized. The income tax expense from continuing
operations of $14.5 million for 2010 was related primarily to tax provisions for foreign taxes. The income tax benefit from continuing operations of $8.5 million for 2009 was primarily due to federal net operating loss carryback claims.



Contractual Obligations

The following table reflects our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011:

(1)

Long-Term Debt Obligations include current maturities.

(2)

Included in Other Long-Term Liabilities are liabilities for customer advances, extended warranty, uncertain tax positions and other obligations. For certain long-term
obligations, we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to these obligations and therefore we included these amounts in the column marked “Other”.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance decreased $300.8 million in 2011 from 2010 to $754.6 million. Cash activity for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:

In 2011, changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of businesses sold and acquired, used cash of
$94.0 million. This was due to a $43.2 million decrease in operating assets and a $137.2 million decrease in operating liabilities.



The decrease in operating assets was due to a $66.4 million decrease in accounts receivable
resulting from increased collections, partially offset by a $22.6 million increase in prepayments due primarily to supplier prepayments and a $0.6 million increase in inventories. The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $62.6 million
decrease in customer advance payments due to shipments of systems prepaid by customers, a $28.3 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to variable compensation payments, a $19.9 million decrease in accounts payable due to
decreased sales volume, $11.9 million of retirement plan contributions, a $8.7 million decrease in accrued income taxes, and a $5.8 million decrease in deferred revenue.

Investing activities during 2011 used cash of $120.5 million. In October 2011, we completed the acquisition of LitePoint for an initial cash purchase price, net of cash acquired, of $537.5 million.
Capital expenditures were $86.1 million. Proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities were $1,194.9 million, partially offset by $691.8 million used for purchase of marketable securities. The net proceeds were used to acquire
LitePoint.

Financing activities during 2011 used cash of $16.3 million, due to the repurchase of 2.6 million shares of
common stock for $31.2 million at an average price of $11.84 per share and $2.5 million for payments on long-term debt, partially offset by $17.4 million from the issuance of common stock under stock option and stock purchase plans.

In 2010, changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of businesses sold and acquired, provided cash of $52.7 million. This was due
to a $38.2 million increase in operating assets and a $90.9 million increase in operating liabilities. The increase in operating assets was due to an increase in accounts receivable of $50.4 million due to higher sales volume, partially offset by a
$3.7 million decrease in inventories, and a decrease in other current assets of $8.5 million. The increase in operating liabilities was due to a $57.7 million increase in customer advance payments due primarily to an advanced payment received from
one of our Semiconductor Test customers, a $44.5 million increase in accrued employee compensation due to higher variable compensation, a $15.0 million increase in accounts payable, a $15.0 million increase in deferred revenue, an $8.5 million
increase in accrued income taxes, and a $2.7 million increase in other accrued liabilities, partially offset by $52.5 million of retirement plan contributions.

Investing activities during 2010 used cash of $627.7 million, due to $870.8 million used for purchases of marketable securities and $76.0 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment,
partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities that provided cash of $318.1 million, and proceeds from life insurance that provided cash of $1.1 million.

Financing activities during 2010 provided cash of $42.4 million due to $44.7 million from the issuance of common stock under stock option
and stock purchase plans which was partially offset by $2.3 million of cash used for payments on long-term debt related to the Japan loan.

In 2009, changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of businesses sold and acquired, provided cash of $78.9 million. This was due to a decrease in operating assets of $42.7 million and an increase
in operating liabilities of $36.2 million. The decrease in operating assets consisted mainly of a decrease in inventory of $63.2 million partially offset by an increase of $19.3 million in accounts receivable due to higher sales volume. The increase
in operating liabilities consisted of an increase in advanced customer payments, accounts payable, deferred revenue and other accrued expenses of $51.5 million partially offset by retirement plan contributions of $15.3 million. The $43.3 million
increase in deferred revenue and customer advances in 2009 is due to an advanced payment of approximately $68.2 million received from one of our Semiconductor Test customers. The customer received an incremental discount and also wanted to secure
its position in our manufacturing slot plan. This increase in customer advances was partially offset by a $24.9 million decrease in deferred revenue.

Investing activities in 2009 used cash of $93.3 million due to investments in property, plant and equipment of $41.3 million, payment of transaction fees related to the Eagle Test acquisition of $3.7
million, and purchases of marketable securities of $90.4 million, partially offset by sales and maturities of marketable securities that provided cash of $41.0 million, and proceeds from life insurance policies that provided cash of $1.1 million.



During 2009, financing activities provided cash of $66.1 million due to approximately $163.0
million of net proceeds from the issuance of the senior convertible notes, $10.0 million of long-term debt proceeds from a loan in Japan, and $15.7 million from the issuance of common stock under stock option and stock purchase plans. These
increases were partially offset by $122.5 million of cash used for the repayment of our revolving credit facility and $1.1 million of cash used for principal payment on long-term debt.

On April 6, 2009, we completed a registered public offering of $190.0 million aggregate principal amount convertible senior notes
(“Notes”) and settled the related convertible bond hedge and warrant transaction and received approximately $163.0 million as a result of these financing transactions. The Notes bear interest at a rate of 4.50% per annum, payable
semi- annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The first interest payment was on September 15, 2009. The Notes will mature on March 15, 2014, unless earlier repurchased by us or converted. The Notes may be
converted, under certain circumstances and during certain periods, at an initial conversion rate of approximately 182.65 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of
approximately $5.48. The convertible note hedge and warrant transaction will generally have the effect of increasing the conversion price of the Notes to approximately $7.67 per share of our common stock, representing a 75% conversion premium based
upon the closing price of our common stock on March 31, 2009. We may not redeem the Notes prior to their maturity. Holders of the Notes may require us to purchase in cash all or a portion of their Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal
amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes involving the Company.

We
believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance will be sufficient to meet working capital and expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. We do not have significant cash outside the U.S. that if repatriated would
incur additional taxes. In addition, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in the U.S. and our operations in the U.S. provide sufficient liquidity to fund our business activities in the U.S. Inflation has not had a
significant long-term impact on earnings.

Retirement Plans

ASC 715-20,

“Compensation – Retirement Benefits – Defined Benefit Plans”

requires an employer with defined benefit plans or other postretirement benefit plans to recognize an
asset or a liability on its balance sheet for the overfunded or underfunded status of the plans as defined by ASC 715-20. The pension asset or liability represents the difference between the fair value of the pension plan’s assets and the
projected benefit obligation as of December 31. For other postretirement benefit plans, the liability is the difference between the fair value of the plan’s assets and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of
December 31.

Our pension expense, which includes the U.S. Qualified Pension Plan (“U.S. Plan”), certain
qualified plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries, and a U.S. Supplemental Executive Defined Benefit Plan, was approximately $15.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The largest portion of our 2011 pension expense was $7.0 million for
our U.S. Plan. Pension expense is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, a significant input to the actuarial models that measure pension benefit obligations. Discount rate and expected return on assets are two assumptions which
are important elements of pension plan expense and asset/liability measurement. We evaluate these critical assumptions at least annually on a plan and country specific basis. We evaluate other assumptions related to demographic factors, such as
retirement age, mortality and turnover periodically, and update them to reflect our experience and expectations for the future.

In developing the expected return on U.S. Plan assets assumption, we evaluated input from our investment managers and pension
consultants, including their review of asset class return expectations. Based on this review, we believe that 5.5% was an appropriate rate to use for 2011. We will continue to evaluate the expected return on plan assets at least annually, and will
adjust the rate as necessary. The December 31, 2011 asset allocation for our U.S. Plan is 87% invested in fixed income securities, 12% invested in equity securities, and 1% invested in other



securities. Our investment managers regularly review the actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance the portfolio to ensure alignment with our targeted allocations.

We base our determination of pension expense on a market-related valuation of assets, which reduces year-to-year volatility. This
market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related
value of assets and the actual return on assets. Since the market-related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. As of
December 31, 2011, under the U.S. Plan, we had cumulative gains of approximately $23.3 million, which remain to be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of assets. The discount rate that we utilized for determining future
pension obligations for the U.S. Plan is based on the Citigroup Pension Index adjusted for the U.S. Plan’s expected cash flows and was 4.2% at December 31, 2011, down from 5.3% at December 31, 2010. We estimate that in 2012 we will
recognize approximately $12.4 million of pension expense for the U.S. Plan. The U.S. Plan related pension expense estimate for 2012 is based on a 4.2% discount rate, and 5.0% return on U.S. Plan assets. Future pension expense will depend on future
investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the employee population participating in our pension plans. As of December 31, 2011, we had unrecognized pension losses and prior service costs of
$134.1 million, of which $117.7 million is for the U.S. Plan.

We performed a sensitivity analysis, which expresses the
potential U.S. Plan expense for the year ending December 31, 2012, that would result from changes to either the discount rate or the expected return on plan assets.

The assets of the U.S. Plan consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities. The value of our
U.S. Plan assets has increased from $275.7 million at December 31, 2010 to $319.1 million at December 31, 2011. Our funding policy is to make contributions to our pension plans in accordance with local laws and to the extent that such
contributions are tax deductible. During 2011, we made a contribution of $1.7 million to the U.S. Supplemental Executive Defined Benefit Pension Plan and $8.5 million contribution to certain qualified plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries. We expect to
contribute approximately $1.8 million to the U.S. Supplemental Executive Defined Benefit Pension Plan in 2012. Contributions that will be made in 2012 to certain qualified plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries are based on local statutory requirements and
will be approximately $1.7 million. We do not expect to make any contributions to the U.S. Plan in 2012.

Equity Compensation Plans

In addition to our 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan discussed in Note N: “Stock Based Compensation” in Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, we have the 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan (the “2006 Equity Plan”) under which equity securities are authorized for issuance. The 2006 Equity Plan was approved by stockholders on
May 25, 2006. The 2006 Equity Plan replaced our 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, our 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan, and our 1991 Employee Stock Option Plan, each of which were terminated upon the shareholders approval of the 2006
Equity Plan. We may not issue any additional option grants or awards under the terminated plans, but the options and awards previously granted and currently outstanding under these plans will remain in effect until the earlier of the date of their
exercise, vesting or expiration, as applicable.

At our annual meeting of stockholders held May 28, 2009, our
stockholders approved an amendment to the 2006 Equity Plan to increase the number of shares issuable thereunder by 10.0 million, for an aggregate of



22.0 million shares issuable thereunder, and our stockholders also approved an amendment to our 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan to increase the number of shares issuable thereunder by
5.0 million, for an aggregate of 25.4 million shares issuable thereunder.

The following table presents information
about these plans as of December 31, 2011 (share numbers in thousands):

Plan category

Number of securities

to be issued upon

exercise
of

outstanding options,

warrants and rights

Weighted-average

exercise price of

outstanding options,

warrants and
rights

Number of securities remaining

available for future
issuance

under equity compensation

plans (excluding securities

reflected in column one)

Equity plans approved by shareholders

6,892

(1)

$

7.57

12,161

(3)

Equity plans not approved by shareholders(4,5,6)

4,282

(2)

$

3.24

—

Total

11,174

$

4.12

12,161

(1)

Includes 5,809,270 shares of restricted stock units that are not included in the calculation of the weighted average exercise price.

(2)

Includes 29,230 shares of restricted stock units that are not included in the calculation of the weighted average exercise price.

(3)

Consists of 8,205,367 securities available for issuance under the 2006 Equity Plan and 3,955,578 of securities available for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase
Plan.

(4)

In connection with the acquisition of Nextest (the “Nextest Acquisition”), we assumed the options and restricted stock units granted under the Nextest Systems
Corporation 1998 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, and the Nextest Systems Corporation 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (collectively, the “Nextest Plans”). Upon the consummation of the Nextest Acquisition, these options and restricted stock
units were converted automatically into, respectively, options to purchase and restricted stock units representing, an aggregate of 4,417,594 shares of our common stock. No additional awards will be granted under the Nextest Plans. As of
December 31, 2011, there were outstanding options exercisable for an aggregate of 1,036,584 shares of our common stock pursuant to the Nextest Plans, with a weighted average exercise price of $3.05 per share. As of December 31, 2011, there
were outstanding restricted stock units covering an aggregate of 29,230 shares of our common stock, none of which are included in the calculation of the weighted average exercise price.

(5)

In connection with the acquisition of Eagle Test (the “Eagle Acquisition”), we assumed the options granted under the Eagle Test Systems, Inc. 2003 Stock
Option and Grant Plan and the Eagle Test Systems, Inc. 2006 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (collectively, the “Eagle Plans”). Upon the consummation of the Eagle Acquisition, these options were converted automatically into options to
purchase an aggregate of 3,594,916 shares of our common stock. No additional awards will be granted under the Eagle Plans. As of December 31, 2011, there were outstanding options exercisable for an aggregate of 257,879 shares of our common
stock pursuant to the Eagle Plans, with a weighted average exercise price of $3.65 per share.

(6)

In connection with the acquisition of LitePoint Corporation (the “LitePoint Acquisition”), we assumed the options granted under the LitePoint Corporation 2002
Stock Plan (the “LitePoint Plan”). Upon the consummation of the LitePoint Acquisition, these options were converted automatically into options to purchase an aggregate of 2,828,344 shares of our common stock. No additional awards will be
granted under the LitePoint Plan. As of December 31, 2011, there were outstanding options exercisable for an aggregate of 2,771,821 shares of our common stock pursuant to the LitePoint Plan, with a weighted average exercise price of $2.71 per
share.

The purpose of the 2006 Equity Plan is to motivate employees, officers, directors, consultants and
advisors by providing equity ownership and compensation opportunities in Teradyne. The aggregate number of shares available under the 2006 Equity Plan as of December 31, 2011 was 12,160,945 shares of our common stock. The 2006 Equity Plan
authorizes the grant of stock-based awards in the form of (1) non-qualified and incentive stock



options, (2) stock appreciation rights, (3) restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards, (4) phantom stock, and (5) other stock-based awards. Awards may be tied
to time-based vesting schedules and/or performance-based vesting measured by reference to performance criteria chosen by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which administers the 2006 Equity Plan. Awards may be made to any
employee, officer, consultant and advisor of Teradyne and our subsidiaries, as well as, to our directors. The maximum number of shares of stock-based awards that may be granted to one participant during any one fiscal year is 2,000,000 shares of
common stock. The 2006 Equity Plan will expire on May 24, 2016.

As of December 31, 2011, total unrecognized
compensation expense related to non-vested awards and options totaled $60.3 million, and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years.

Performance Graph

The following graph compares the change in our
cumulative total shareholder return in our common stock with each of (i) the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and (ii) the Morningstar Semiconductor Equipment & Materials Industry Group. The comparison assumes $100.00 was
invested on December 31, 2006 in our common stock and in each of the foregoing indices and assumes reinvestment of dividends, if any.

(1)

This graph is not “soliciting material,” is not deemed filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any other filing under the Securities
Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing.

(2)

The stock price performance shown on the graph is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. Information used on the graph was obtained from Aon Hewitt
Associates, a source believed to be reliable, but we are not responsible for any errors or omissions in such information.



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04,

“Fair Value Measurement.”

This ASU clarifies the concepts related to
highest and best use and valuation premise, blockage factors and other premiums and discounts, the fair value measurement of financial instruments held in a portfolio and of those instruments classified as a component of shareowners’ equity.
The guidance includes enhanced disclosure requirements about recurring Level 3 fair value measurements, the use of nonfinancial assets, and the level in the fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities not recorded at fair value. The provisions of
this ASU are effective prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011. Early application is prohibited. This ASU requires changes in presentation only and we do not expect it will have a material impact on
its consolidated financial statements.

In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05,

“Comprehensive
Income.”

This ASU intends to enhance comparability and transparency of other comprehensive income components. The guidance provides an option to present total comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other
comprehensive income in a single continuous statement or two separate but consecutive statements. This ASU eliminates the option to present other comprehensive income components as part of the statement of changes in shareowners’ equity. The
provisions of this ASU will be applied retrospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Early application is permitted. This ASU requires changes in presentation only and we do not expect it will have a material
impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08,
“

Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350):

Testing Goodwill for Impairment.

” This new guidance is intended to simplify goodwill impairment testing by allowing companies to first assess qualitative factors to determine
if it is more likely than not that goodwill might be impaired and whether it is necessary to perform the current two-step goodwill impairment test. This new guidance is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed in interim and annual
periods for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted and we adopted the standard in the fourth quarter of 2011. The adoption did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.

Item 7A:

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments which potentially
subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash equivalents, marketable securities, forward currency contracts and accounts receivable. Our cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds invested in U.S. Treasuries
and government agencies. Our fixed income available-for-sale marketable securities have a minimum rating of AA by one or more of the major credit rating agencies. We place forward currency contracts with high credit-quality financial institutions in
order to minimize credit risk exposure. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of geographically dispersed customers. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’
financial condition and from time to time may require customers to provide a letter of credit from a bank to secure accounts receivable.

Exchange Rate Risk Management

We regularly enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the value of our net monetary assets in Euro, British Pound, Japanese Yen and the Taiwan Dollar. These foreign currency forward
contracts have maturities of approximately one month. These contracts are used to reduce our risk associated with exchange rate movements, as gains and losses on these contracts are intended to offset exchange losses and gains on underlying
exposures. We do not engage in currency speculation.

We performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10%
fluctuation in foreign exchange rates to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. As of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the analysis indicated that these hypothetical market movements would not have a material
effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



Interest Rate Risk Management

We are exposed to potential loss due to changes in interest rates. Our interest rate exposure is primarily in the United States in
short-term and long-term marketable securities.

In order to estimate the potential loss due to interest rate risk, a 10%
fluctuation in interest rates was assumed. Market risk for the short and long-term marketable securities was estimated as the potential change in the fair value resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates for securities contained in the
investment portfolio. The potential change in fair value from changes in interest rates is immaterial as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.



Item 8:

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Teradyne, Inc. (the “Company”):

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Teradyne, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed
in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in

Internal

Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Annual Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial
statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures
of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of
the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As described in Management’s Annual
Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, management has excluded LitePoint Corporation from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 because it was acquired by the
Company in a purchase business combination on October 5, 2011. We have also excluded LitePoint Corporation from our audit of internal control over financial reporting. LitePoint Corporation is a wholly-owned subsidiary whose total assets and total
revenues represent 3% and 2%, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011.

/s/    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

February 29, 2012



TERADYNE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

December 31, 2011 and 2010

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.



TERADYNE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.



TERADYNE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.



TERADYNE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.



TERADYNE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A.    THE COMPANY

Teradyne, Inc. is a leading global supplier of automatic test equipment. Teradyne’s automatic test equipment
products and services include:

•

semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems,

•

military/aerospace (“Mil/Aero”) test instrumentation and systems, storage test (“Storage Test”) systems, and circuit-board test and
inspection (“Commercial Board Test”) systems (collectively these products represent “Systems Test Group”), and

•

wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.

B.    ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All
significant intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Certain prior years’ amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates

The preparation
of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an on-going basis,
management evaluates its estimates, including those related to inventories, investments, goodwill, intangible and other long-lived assets, doubtful accounts, income taxes, deferred tax assets, pensions, warranties, and loss contingencies. Management
bases its estimates on historical experience and on appropriate and customary assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.

Revenue
Recognition

In October 2009, the FASB amended the accounting standards for revenue recognition to remove tangible products
containing non-software and software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality from the scope of industry-specific software revenue recognition guidance. In October 2009, the FASB also amended the
accounting standards for arrangements with multiple deliverables. Teradyne elected to early adopt this accounting guidance at the beginning of its first quarter of 2010 on a prospective basis. Adoption had no material impact on its financial
position or results of operations in 2011 or 2010.

Teradyne recognizes revenue when there is persuasive evidence of an
arrangement, title and risk of loss have passed, delivery has occurred or the services have been rendered, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collection of the related receivable is reasonably assured. Title and risk of loss generally pass
to its customers upon shipment or at delivery destination point. In circumstances where either title or risk of loss pass upon destination, acceptance or cash payment, Teradyne defers revenue recognition until such events occur.

Teradyne’s equipment has non-software and software components that function together to deliver the equipment’s essential
functionality. Revenue is recognized upon shipment or at delivery destination point, provided that customer acceptance criteria can be demonstrated prior to shipment. Certain contracts require Teradyne to perform tests of the product to ensure that
performance meets the published product specifications or customer requested specifications, which are generally conducted prior to shipment. Where the criteria cannot be demonstrated prior to shipment, revenue is deferred until customer acceptance
has been received. Teradyne also defers the portion of the sales price that is not due until acceptance, which represents deferred profit.



For multiple element arrangements, Teradyne allocates revenue to all deliverables based on
their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, a hierarchy is used to determine the selling price for allocating revenue to deliverables as follows: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (“VSOE”),
(ii) third-party evidence of selling price (“TPE”), and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (“BESP”). For a delivered item to be considered a separate unit, the delivered item must have value to the customer on a
standalone basis and the delivery or performance of the undelivered item must be considered probable and substantially in Teradyne’s control.

Teradyne’s post-shipment obligations include installation, training services, one-year standard warranties, and extended warranties. Installation does not alter the product capabilities, does not
require specialized skills or tools and can be performed by the customers or other vendors. Installation is typically provided within five days of product shipment and is completed within one to two days thereafter. Training services are optional
and do not affect the customers’ ability to use the product. Teradyne defers revenue for the selling price of installation and training. Extended warranties constitute warranty obligations beyond one year and Teradyne defers revenue in
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 605-20,

“Separately Priced Extended Warranty and Product Maintenance Contracts.”

Teradyne’s products are generally subject to warranty and related costs of the warranty are provided for in cost of revenue when
product revenue is recognized. Teradyne classifies shipping and handling costs in cost of revenue. Service revenue is recognized over the contractual period or as the services are performed.

Teradyne generally does not provide its customers with contractual rights of return for any of its products.

For transactions involving the sale of software, revenue is recognized in accordance with ASC 985-605,

“Software Revenue
Recognition.”

Teradyne recognizes revenue when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is probable. In instances where an arrangement contains
multiple elements, revenue related to the undelivered elements is deferred to the extent that vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (“VSOE”) exists for such elements. In instances where VSOE does not exist for one or more of the
undelivered elements of an arrangement, all revenue related to the arrangement is deferred until all elements have been delivered. VSOE is the price charged when the element is sold separately. Revenue for the separate elements is only recognized
where the functionality of the undelivered element is not essential to the delivered element.

For certain contracts eligible
for contract accounting under ASC 605-35,

“Revenue Recognition Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts,”

revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion accounting method based upon the percentage of incurred costs
to estimated total costs. These arrangements require significant production, modification or customization. In all cases, changes to total estimated costs and anticipated losses, if any, are recognized in the period in which they are determined.
With respect to contract change orders, claims or similar items, judgment must be used in estimating related amounts and assessing the potential for realization. Such amounts are only included in the contract value when they can be reliably
estimated and realization is reasonably assured, generally upon receipt of a customer approved change order. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Teradyne had $1.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively, in unbilled amounts on long-term contracts
included in accounts receivable. These amounts will be billed on a milestone basis in accordance with contractual terms.



As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, deferred revenue and customer advances consisted of
the following and are included in the short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances:

Product Warranty

Teradyne generally provides a one-year warranty on its products, commencing upon installation or shipment. A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for estimated warranty
expense based on historical experience. Related costs are charged to the warranty accrual as incurred. The balance below is included in other accrued liabilities.

When Teradyne receives revenue for extended warranties, beyond one year, it is deferred and recognized on
a straight-line basis over the contract period. Related costs are expensed as incurred. The balance below is included in short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances.



Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. The volatility of the industries that Teradyne
serves can cause certain of its customers to experience shortages of cash flows, which can impact their ability to make required payments. Teradyne maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its
customers to make required payments. Estimated allowances for doubtful accounts are reviewed periodically taking into account the customer’s recent payment history, the customer’s current financial statements and other information
regarding the customer’s credit worthiness. Account balances are charged off against the allowance when it is determined the receivable will not be recovered.

Inventories

Inventories, which include materials, labor, and manufacturing
overhead, are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or net realizable value. On a quarterly basis, Teradyne uses consistent methodologies to evaluate all inventories for net realizable value. Teradyne records a provision for both
excess and obsolete inventory when such write-downs or write-offs are identified through the quarterly review process. The inventory valuation is based upon assumptions about future demand, product mix and possible alternative uses.

Investments

Teradyne accounts for its investments in debt and equity securities in accordance with the provisions of ASC 320-10,
“

Investments—Debt and Equity Securities.

” ASC 320-10 requires that certain debt and equity securities be classified into one of three categories; trading, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity securities. On a quarterly basis,
Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate those that have an indication of a potential other-than-temporary impairment. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is other-than-temporary include:

•

The length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost;

•

The financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; and

•

The intent and ability to retain the investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.

As defined in ASC 820-10 “

Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures

”, fair value is the
price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. Teradyne uses the market and income approach techniques to value its financial instruments and there were
no changes in valuation techniques during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. ASC 820-10 requires that assets and liabilities carried at fair value be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories:

Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets as of the reporting date.

Level 2: Inputs other than Level 1, that are observable either directly or indirectly as of the reporting date. For example, a common
approach for valuing fixed income securities is the use of matrix pricing. Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices, and therefore is
considered a Level 2 input.

Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are not supported by market data. Unobservable inputs are
developed based on the best information available, which might include Teradyne’s own data.

In accordance with ASC
820-10, Teradyne measures its debt and equity investments at fair value. Teradyne’s debt and equity investments are primarily classified within Level 2 with the exception of Teradyne’s investments in auction rate securities and contingent
consideration, which were classified within Level 3.



Teradyne’s investments in auction rate securities were classified within Level 3 because there were no active markets for the auction rate securities and therefore Teradyne was unable to
obtain independent valuations from market sources. The valuation technique used under Level 3 consisted of a discounted cash flow analysis which included numerous factors, such as type of security, tax status, credit quality, duration, insurance and
the portfolio composition as well as observable market data including yield or spreads of trading instruments. Teradyne determines the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration based on assessment of the probability that it would be
required to make such payment.

Goodwill, Intangible and Long-Lived Assets

Teradyne accounts for goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with ASC 350-10,

“Intangibles- Goodwill and Other.”

Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful economic life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter, on a reporting unit basis, or more
frequently when events and circumstances occur indicating that the recorded goodwill may be impaired. In September 2011, the FASB issued new guidance which provides an entity with the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether
it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If an entity determines this is the case, it is required to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment
and measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized. If an entity determines that this is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying amounts, the two-step goodwill impairment test is
not required. This new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted. Teradyne adopted this guidance as of the fourth quarter of 2011.

Applying this new accounting guidance, Teradyne performed a qualitative assessment of its reporting unit and determined that is was not
more-likely-than-not that the fair value of its reporting unit was less than its carrying amount.

In accordance with ASC
360-10

, “Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,”

Teradyne reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully
recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are no longer appropriate. Each impairment test is based on a comparison of the estimated undiscounted cash flows to the recorded value of the asset. If impairment is indicated, the asset is
written down to its estimated fair value based on a discounted cash flow analysis. The cash flow estimates used to determine the impairment, if any, contain management’s best estimates using appropriate assumptions and projections at that time.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost and depreciated over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements and major renewals are capitalized and included in property, plant
and equipment accounts while expenditures for maintenance and repairs and minor renewals are charged to expense. When assets are retired, the assets and related allowances for depreciation and amortization are removed from the accounts and any
resulting gain or loss is reflected in operations.

Teradyne provides for depreciation of its assets principally on the
straight-line method with the cost of the assets being charged to expense over their useful lives as follows:

Test systems manufactured internally are used by Teradyne for customer evaluations and manufacturing and
support of its customers. Teradyne depreciates the test systems manufactured internally over a six-year life to



cost of revenues and selling and administrative expenses. Teradyne often sells internally manufactured test equipment to customers. Upon the sale of an internally manufactured test system, the
net book value of the system is transferred to inventory and expensed as cost of revenues. The net book value of internally manufactured test systems sold in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $7.8 million, $12.2 million and
$14.5 million, respectively.

Engineering and Development Costs

Teradyne’s products are highly technical in nature and require a large and continuing engineering and development effort. Software
development costs incurred prior to the establishment of technological feasibility are charged to expense. Software development costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility are capitalized until the product is
available for release to customers. To date, the period between achieving technological feasibility and general availability of the product has been short and software development costs eligible for capitalization have not been material. Engineering
and development costs are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of salaries, contractor fees, building costs, depreciation, and tooling costs.

Stock Compensation Plans and Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Equity Plans
and Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Stock-based compensation expense is based on the grant-date fair value estimated in
accordance with the provisions of ASC 718-10 “

Compensation—Stock Compensation

.” As required by ASC 718-10, Teradyne has made an estimate of expected forfeitures and is recognizing compensation costs only for those stock-based
compensation awards expected to vest.

Under its stock compensation plans, Teradyne has granted stock options and restricted
stock units, and employees are eligible to purchase Teradyne’s common stock through its Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”).

Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date generally vest in equal installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term
of seven years.

Restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years.
Restricted stock unit awards granted to non-employee directors vest after a one year period, with 100% of the award vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date. A portion of restricted stock unit awards granted to executive officers is
subject to time-based vesting and a portion of the 2011 and 2010 awards are subject to performance-based vesting. The percentage level of performance satisfied for performance-based grants is assessed on or near the anniversary of the grant date
and, in turn, that percentage level determines the number of performance-based restricted stock units available for vesting over the vesting period; portions of the performance-based grants not available for vesting will be forfeited. Restricted
stock units do not have common stock voting rights, and the shares underlying the restricted stock units are not considered issued and outstanding until they become vested. Teradyne expenses the cost of the restricted stock unit awards subject to
time-based vesting, which is determined to be the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant, ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse.

Under the ESPP, eligible employees may purchase shares of common stock through regular payroll deductions of up to 10% of their eligible compensation, to a maximum of shares with a fair market value of
$25,000 per calendar year, not to exceed 6,000 shares. The price paid for the common stock is equal to 85% of the lower of the fair market value of Teradyne’s common stock on the first business day and the last business day of the purchase
period. There are two six-month purchase periods in each fiscal year.



The effect to income (loss) from continuing operations for recording stock-based
compensation for the years ended December 31 was as follows:

Valuation Assumptions

The total number of stock options granted in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 0.1 million, 0.3 million and 1.1 million, respectively, at the weighted average grant date fair value of $6.74, $4.10
and $1.97, respectively. The fair value of the stock options at grant date was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:

Teradyne determined the stock option’s expected life based upon historical exercise data for
executive officers, the age of executives and the terms of the stock option award. Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life. The interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in
effect at the time of grant.

The weighted-average fair value of employee stock purchase rights granted pursuant to the ESPP
in the first and last six months of 2011 was $3.66 and $4.01, respectively, the first and last six months of 2010 was $3.05 and $2.77, respectively, and the first and last six months of 2009 was $1.66 and $2.49, respectively. The fair value of the
employees’ purchase rights was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:

As of December 31, 2011, there were 4.0 million shares available for grant under the ESPP.

Income Taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. The measurement of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon weighted available
evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. U.S. income taxes are not provided for on the earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, which are expected to be reinvested indefinitely in operations
outside the U.S. For intra-period tax allocations, Teradyne first utilizes non-equity related tax attributes, such as net operating losses and credit carryforwards and then equity-related tax attributes.



Advertising Costs

Teradyne expenses all advertising costs as incurred. Advertising costs were $1.0 million, $0.6 million and $0.7 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Translation of Non-U.S. Currencies

The functional currency for all non-U.S. subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar. All foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are re-measured on a monthly basis into the functional currency
using exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. All foreign currency denominated non-monetary assets and liabilities are re-measured into the functional currency using historical exchange rates. Net foreign exchange gains and losses
resulting from re-measurement are included in interest expense and other and were a gain of $0.9 million, a gain of $2.5 million and a loss of $1.3 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. These amounts do
not reflect the corresponding gain (loss) from foreign exchange contracts. See Note F: “Financial Instruments” regarding foreign exchange contracts. Revenue and expense amounts are translated using an average of exchange rates in effect
during the period.

Net Income (Loss) per Common Share

Basic net income (loss) per common share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Except where the result would be
antidilutive, diluted net income (loss) per common share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) by the sum of the weighted average number of common shares plus common stock equivalents, if applicable.

Prior to the fourth quarter of 2010, net income for diluted net income (loss) per share includes an impact of convertible notes that
represents interest expense that would have not been recorded if the notes converted at the beginning of the period. Dilutive potential common shares include incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes and the convertible
notes hedge warrant shares. Incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes are calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the conversion price of $5.48, multiplied by the 34.7
million shares that will be issued upon conversion. The result of this calculation, representing total intrinsic value of the convertible debt, is divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period. Convertible notes hedge warrant shares are
calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the warrant price of $7.67, multiplied by the 34.7 million shares that will be issued upon conversion. The result of this calculation, representing total
intrinsic value of the warrant, is divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period. Teradyne’s call option for 34.7 million shares at an exercise price of $5.48 is not used in the GAAP earnings per share calculation as its effect
would be anti-dilutive.

With respect to the Teradyne’s convertible debt, Teradyne intends to settle its conversion
spread (i.e., the intrinsic value of the embedded option feature contained in the convertible debt) in shares. Teradyne accounts for its conversion spread using the treasury stock method. In the fourth quarter of 2010, Teradyne determined that it
had the ability and intent to settle the principal amount of the convertible debt in cash; accordingly as of the fourth quarter of 2010, the principal amount has been excluded from the determination of diluted earnings per share.

Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Comprehensive income (loss) includes net income (loss), unrealized pension gains and losses, unrealized gains and losses on certain investments in debt and equity securities and cumulative translation
adjustments.

C.    RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, “

Fair Value Measurement

.” This ASU clarifies the concepts related to
highest and best use and valuation premise, blockage factors and other premiums and



discounts, the fair value measurement of financial instruments held in a portfolio and of those instruments classified as a component of shareowners’ equity. The guidance includes enhanced
disclosure requirements about recurring Level 3 fair value measurements, the use of nonfinancial assets, and the level in the fair value hierarchy of assets and liabilities not recorded at fair value. The provisions of this ASU are effective
prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011. Early application is prohibited. This ASU requires changes in presentation only and Teradyne does not expect it will have a material impact on its
consolidated financial statements.

In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, “

Comprehensive
Income

.” This ASU intends to enhance comparability and transparency of other comprehensive income components. The guidance provides an option to present total comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other
comprehensive income in a single continuous statement or two separate but consecutive statements. This ASU eliminates the option to present other comprehensive income components as part of the statement of changes in shareowners’ equity. The
provisions of this ASU will be applied retrospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Early application is permitted. This ASU requires changes in presentation only and Teradyne does not expect it will have a
material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, “

Intangibles-Goodwill
and Other (Topic 350):

Testing Goodwill for Impairment.

” This new guidance is intended to simplify goodwill impairment testing by allowing companies to first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not
that goodwill might be impaired and whether it is necessary to perform the current two-step goodwill impairment test. This new guidance is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed in interim and annual periods for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted and Teradyne adopted the standard in the fourth quarter of 2011. The adoption did not have a material impact on Teradyne’s financial position or results of operations.

D.    Discontinued Operations

On March 21, 2011, Teradyne completed the sale of its Diagnostic Solutions business unit, which was included in the
Systems Test Group segment, to SPX Corporation for $40.2 million in cash. Teradyne sold this business as its growth potential as a stand-alone business within Teradyne was significantly less than if it was part of a larger automotive supplier. The
financial information for Diagnostic Solutions has been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented. Net revenues and income from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:

E.    ACQUISITIONS

Business

LitePoint Corporation

On October 5, 2011, Teradyne completed its acquisition of LitePoint Corporation (“LitePoint”) located in Sunnyvale, California. The total purchase price of $646.0 million consisted of
$572.7 million of cash paid to acquire the outstanding common and preferred stock of LitePoint, $68.9 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of certain revenue targets through 2012 (the estimated undiscounted



range of outcomes for the contingent consideration is $62.0 million to $74.0 million) and $4.5 million in fair value of assumed vested stock options, which were converted into stock options
to purchase Teradyne’s common stock. The fair value of stock options was estimated using the following weighted average assumptions:

Expected life (years)

6.2

Expected volatility

49.1

%

Risk-free interest rate

1.3

%

Dividend yield

0.0

%

The liability of $68.9 million arising from the contingent consideration is recorded as of December 31,
2011 and there has been no change to the acquisition date amount recognized, nor any change in the range of outcomes or assumptions used to develop the fair value. Teradyne expects the majority of this liability to be paid over the next twelve
months.

LitePoint designs, develops, and supports advanced wireless test solutions for the development and manufacturing of
wireless devices, including smart phones, tablets, notebooks/laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi enabled devices. LitePoint’s IQ product line consists of cellular and connectivity test solutions used by developers and
manufacturers of wireless devices and consumer electronics. LitePoint is Teradyne’s Wireless Test operating and reportable segment.

The LitePoint acquisition was accounted for as a purchase business combination and, accordingly, the results have been included in Teradyne’s consolidated results of operation from the date of
acquisition. The allocation of the total purchase price of LitePoint net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The purchase price allocation is preliminary pending the final
determination of the fair value of certain acquired assets and assumed liabilities. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable intangible and net tangible assets in the amount of $352.8 million was allocated to goodwill, which is not
deductible for tax purposes. The purchase price allocation below reflects this adjustment. The following represents the allocation of the purchase price:

Teradyne estimated the fair value of other intangible assets using the income and cost approach. Acquired
other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The following table represents components of these other intangible assets and their estimated useful lives at the acquisition date:



For the period from October 5, 2011 to December 31, 2011, LitePoint contributed
$28.4 million of revenues and had a $(20.6) million loss from continuing operations before taxes.

The following
unaudited pro forma information gives effect to the acquisition of LitePoint as if the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2010. The unaudited pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of what actually would have occurred had the
acquisitions been in effect for the periods presented:

The pro forma results above include non recurring expenses related to acquired inventory fair value
adjustment of $18.3 million and $13.3 million of transaction fees incurred by both, Teradyne & LitePoint.

During the year
ended December 31, 2011, Teradyne recorded $4.6 million of charges related to acquisition costs. These charges are included in restructuring and other.

F.     FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Cash Equivalents

Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.

Marketable Securities

Teradyne classifies investments in marketable
securities as trading, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity at the time of purchase and periodically re-evaluates such classification. There were no securities classified as held-to-maturity or trading at December 31, 2011 or 2010. At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, Teradyne’s investments in equity and debt mutual funds, commercial paper, corporate debt securities and U.S. Treasury and government agency securities were classified as available-for-sale securities. Securities
classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value. Realized gains are recorded in interest income. Realized losses and other-than-temporary unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities are included in interest expense and other. For
the year ended December 31, 2009, Teradyne recorded realized losses of $2.1 million on the sale of its marketable securities. There were no realized losses recorded in 2011 and 2010. Unrealized gains and losses are included in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss). The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.

As a result of
Teradyne’s November 14, 2008 acquisition of Eagle Test, Teradyne acquired $26.5 million of auction rate securities (“ARS”) at fair value ($30.0 million par value). In addition, Teradyne acquired (1) the right (“UBS
Put”) to sell its ARS back to UBS at par plus interest, at its sole discretion, during a two-year period beginning on June 30, 2010, and (2) received an option to borrow up to 75% of the fair value of the ARS at no cost. The ARS
portfolio was repurchased by UBS in 2010 and Teradyne no longer owns any ARS securities. During 2009, Teradyne recorded a net gain of $0.7 million in interest income in its consolidated statement of operations for the changes in the ARS fair value.
During 2009, Teradyne recorded a $0.5 million loss in interest expense for a decrease in the fair value of the UBS Put, which was subsequently exercised in June 2010.



The following table sets forth by fair value hierarchy Teradyne’s financial assets and
liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.

Reported as follows:



Reported as follows:

Changes in the fair value of Level 3 financial assets for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
were as follows:

Changes in the fair value of Level 3 contingent consideration for the year ended December 31, 2011 were
as follows:



On a quarterly basis, Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate those that
have an indication of a potential other-than-temporary impairment. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is other-than-temporary include:

•

The length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost;

•

The financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; and

•

The intent and ability to retain the investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.

Teradyne determined that it did not intend to hold certain marketable securities for a period of time
sufficient to allow for recovery in market value and recognized an other-than-temporary impairment loss in the amount of $0.7 million in the years ended December 31, 2009 primarily related to mortgage and asset backed debt securities.

The carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:

(1)

The carrying value represents the bifurcated debt component only, while the fair value is based on quoted market prices for the convertible note which includes the
equity conversion feature.

The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, net and accounts
payable approximate the carrying amount due to the short term maturities of these instruments.

At December 31, 2011 and
2010, these investments are reported as follows:



Reported as follows:

Reported as follows:

The contractual maturities of investments held at December 31, 2011 were as follows:

As of December 31, 2011, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $64.6
million. Of this value, $2.4 million had unrealized losses for greater than one year and $62.2 million had unrealized losses for less than one year. As of December 31, 2010, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled
$185.3 million. Of this value, $5.0 million had unrealized losses for greater than one year and $180.3 million had unrealized losses for less than one year. Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate



investments that have an indication of possible impairment. Based on this review, Teradyne determined that the unrealized losses related to these investments, at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
were temporary.

Derivatives

Teradyne conducts business in a number of foreign countries, with certain transactions denominated in local currencies. The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect
of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated net monetary assets. Teradyne does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

To minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations associated with the remeasurement of net monetary assets denominated in foreign
currencies, Teradyne enters into foreign currency forward contracts. The change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded directly in earnings, and is used to offset the change in value of the net monetary assets denominated in foreign
currencies.

At December 31, 2011 and 2010, Teradyne had the following contracts to buy and sell non-U.S. currencies for
U.S. dollars and other non-U.S. currencies with the following notional amounts:

The fair value of the outstanding contracts was $0.3 million and $0.6 million at December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively, which represented unrealized losses on the outstanding contracts.

In 2011 and 2010, Teradyne recorded
net realized losses of $1.3 million and $2.3 million, respectively, related to foreign currency forward contracts hedging net monetary positions. In 2009, Teradyne recorded net realized gains of $1.6 million related to foreign currency forward
contracts hedging net monetary positions. Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities are included in interest expense and other.

The following table summarizes the fair value of derivative instruments as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:

The following table summarizes the effect of derivative instruments in the statement of operations
recognized for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (the table does not reflect the corresponding (loss) gain from the remeasurement of the balance sheet):



See Note G: “Debt” regarding derivatives related to the convertible senior notes.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial instruments which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash equivalents, marketable securities, forward currency contracts and accounts receivable.
Teradyne’s cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds invested in U.S. Treasuries and government agencies. Teradyne’s fixed income available-for-sale marketable securities have a minimum rating of AA by one or more of the
major credit rating agencies. Teradyne places foreign currency forward contracts with high credit-quality financial institutions in order to minimize credit risk exposure. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are limited
due to the large number of geographically dispersed customers. Teradyne performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition and from time to time may require customers to provide a letter of credit from a bank to secure
accounts receivable.

G.    DEBT

Long-term debt at December 31, 2011 and 2010 consisted of the following:

The debt principal payments for the next 5 years and thereafter are as follows:

Loan Agreement

On March 31, 2009, Teradyne K.K., Teradyne’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Japan, entered into a loan agreement with a local bank in Japan to borrow approximately $10.0 million (the loan is
denominated in Japanese Yen). The loan has a term of 5 years and a fixed interest rate of 1.4%. Approximately $6.0 million of the loan is collateralized by a real estate mortgage on Teradyne K.K.’s building and land in Kumamoto, Japan (which
had a net book value of $11.1 million as of December 31, 2011) and approximately $4.0 million is unsecured. Teradyne, Inc. has guaranteed payment of the loan obligation. The loan is amortized over the term of the loan with semi-annual principal
payments of approximately $1 million payable on September 30 and March 30 each year. At December 31, 2011, approximately $2.6 million of the outstanding loan principal is included in current debt and approximately $3.8 million is
classified as long-term debt.

Convertible Senior Notes

On March 31, 2009, Teradyne entered into an underwriting agreement regarding a public offering of $175.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.50% convertible senior notes due March 15,
2014 (the “Notes”). On April 1, 2009, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase an additional $15.0 million aggregate



principal amount of the Notes for a total aggregate principal amount of $190.0 million. The Notes bear interest at a rate of 4.50% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on
March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2009. The Notes will mature on March 15, 2014, unless earlier repurchased by Teradyne or converted. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally
with all of Teradyne’s existing and future senior debt and senior to any of Teradyne’s subordinated debt.

The Notes
may be converted, under certain circumstances and during certain periods, at an initial conversion rate of approximately 182.65 shares of Teradyne’s common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion
price of approximately $5.48, a 25% conversion premium based on the last reported sale price of $4.38 per share of Teradyne’s common stock on March 31, 2009. The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.

Holders may convert their Notes at their option prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding
December 15, 2013, under the following circumstances: (1) during the five business-day period after any five consecutive trading day period (the “measurement period”) in which the price per Note for each day of that measurement
period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of Teradyne’s common stock and the conversion rate for such date; (2) during any calendar quarter, if the last reported sale price of Teradyne’s common stock for
20 or more trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeds 130% of the applicable conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately
preceding calendar quarter; or (3) upon the occurrence of certain specified events. Additionally, the Notes are convertible during the last three months prior to the March 15, 2014 maturity date. Upon conversion, holders will receive, at
Teradyne’s option, shares of Teradyne common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of Teradyne common stock, subject to Teradyne’s option to irrevocably elect to settle all future conversions in cash up to the principal amount of
the Notes and shares of common stock for any excess.

During each calendar quarter of 2011 and 2010, one of the above
described circumstances that allows holders to convert their Notes at their option prior to December 15, 2013 had occurred (the last reported sale price of Teradyne’s common stock for 20 or more trading days in a period of 30 consecutive
trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter exceeded 130% of the conversion price in effect on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter). As of February 29, 2012, no
holders have exercised the option to convert their Notes.

Teradyne may not redeem the Notes prior to their maturity. Holders
of the Notes may require Teradyne to purchase in cash all or a portion of their Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes involving Teradyne (which
include, among others, the liquidation or dissolution of Teradyne, the acquisition of 50% or more of the total voting shares of Teradyne, certain mergers and consolidations, and the delisting of Teradyne’s stock).

Concurrently with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into a convertible note hedge transaction with a strike price equal to the
initial conversion price of the Notes, or approximately $5.48. The convertible note hedge allows Teradyne to receive shares of its common stock and/or cash related to the excess conversion value that it would pay to the holders of the Notes upon
conversion. The convertible note hedges will cover, subject to customary antidilution adjustments, approximately 34,703,196 shares of Teradyne’s common stock. Teradyne paid approximately $64.6 million for the convertible note hedges.

Separately, Teradyne entered into a warrant transaction with a strike price of approximately $7.67 per share, which is 75%
higher than the closing price of Teradyne’s common stock on March 31, 2009. The warrants will be net share settled and will cover, subject to customary antidilution adjustments, approximately 34,703,196 shares of Teradyne’s common
stock. Teradyne received approximately $43.0 million for the warrants.

The convertible note hedge and warrant transaction
will generally have the effect of increasing the conversion price of the Notes to approximately $7.67 per share of Teradyne’s common stock, representing a 75% conversion premium based upon the closing price of Teradyne’s common stock on
March 31, 2009.



On April 6, 2009, Teradyne completed its registered public offering of the $190.0
million aggregate principal amount convertible senior notes and settled the related convertible bond hedge and warrant transaction and received approximately $163.0 million as a result of these financing transactions.

Teradyne considered the guidance of ASC 815-40,

“Derivatives and Hedging—

Contracts in Entity’s Own
Equity”

and concluded that the convertible note hedge is both indexed to Teradyne’s stock and should be classified in stockholders’ equity in its statement of financial position. The convertible note hedge is considered indexed to
Teradyne’s stock as the terms of the convertible note hedge do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price.
Because the only variable that can affect the settlement amount is Teradyne’s stock price, which is an input to the fair value of a fixed-for-fixed option contract, the convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock.

Teradyne assessed whether the convertible note hedge should be classified as equity under ASC 815-40. In the convertible note
hedge contract the settlement terms permit net cash settlement or net share settlement, at the option of Teradyne. Therefore, the criteria as set forth in ASC 815-40 were evaluated by Teradyne. In reviewing the criteria, Teradyne noted the
following: (1) the convertible note hedge does not require Teradyne to issue shares; (2) there are no cash payments for failure to make timely filings with the SEC; (3) in the case of termination, the convertible note hedge is settled
in the same consideration as the holders of the underlying stock; (4) the counterparty does not have rights that rank higher than those of a shareholder of the stock underlying the convertible note hedge; and (5) there is no requirement to
post collateral. Based on its analysis of those criteria, Teradyne concluded that the convertible note hedge should be recorded in equity and no further adjustment should be made in future periods to adjust the value of the convertible note hedge.

Teradyne analyzed the warrant transaction under ASC 815-40, “Derivatives and Hedging – Contracts in Entity’s
Own Equity” and other relevant literature, and determined that it met the criteria for classification as an equity transaction and is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock. As a result, Teradyne recorded the proceeds from the warrants as
an increase to additional paid-in capital. Teradyne does not recognize subsequent changes in fair value of the warrant in its financial statements.

The provisions of ASC 470-20, “

Debt with Conversion and Other Options

” are applicable to the Notes. ASC 470-20 requires Teradyne to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity
(conversion feature) components of the Notes in a manner that reflects Teradyne’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the date of issuance when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Teradyne allocated $63.4 million of the $190.0
million principal amount of the Notes to the equity component, which represents a discount to the debt and will be amortized into interest expense using the effective interest method through March 2014. Accordingly, Teradyne’s effective annual
interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 14.5%. The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their March 15, 2014 maturity date. Debt issuance costs of approximately $4.1 million are being amortized to
interest expense over the five year term of the Notes. As of December 31, 2011, debt issuance costs were approximately $1.8 million.

The below tables represent the key components of Teradyne’s convertible senior notes:



As of December 31, 2011, the unamortized discount was $33.9 million, which will be amortized over
approximately 2.25 years, and the carrying amount of the equity component was $63.4 million. As of December 31, 2011, the conversion rate was equal to the initial conversion price of approximately $5.48 per share and the if-converted value of
the Notes was $473.0 million.

Revolving Credit Facility

On November 14, 2008, in connection with the acquisition of Eagle Test, Teradyne entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) among Teradyne, as borrower, a syndicate of banks
and certain direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries of Teradyne. The Credit Agreement provided for a senior secured revolving credit facility of $122.5 million. On November 14, 2008 and December 31, 2008, Teradyne borrowed $100.0 million
and $22.5 million, respectively. The weighted average interest rate on the outstanding amount was 5.4% at December 31, 2008. Teradyne incurred $2.8 million in costs related to the revolving credit facility. These costs were being amortized over
the three year term of the revolving credit facility.

On April 7, 2009, Teradyne repaid and terminated its revolving
credit facility agreement. Teradyne used approximately $123.3 million of the net proceeds of the convertible senior notes transaction to repay $122.5 million of principal and $0.8 million of accrued interest outstanding under the revolving
credit facility agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2009, Teradyne expensed the remaining revolving credit facility debt issue costs of approximately $2.5 million.

H.    ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS

At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the accumulated other comprehensive loss balances were as follows:

I.    GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Goodwill

Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC 350-10,

“Intangibles — Goodwill and Other”

on December 31 of each fiscal year
unless interim indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill is considered to be impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Fair values are estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology.

Teradyne performed its 2011 annual goodwill impairment test at the Wireless Test reporting unit level which is an operating and
reportable segment and the only operating and reportable segment that has goodwill.



In performing the annual goodwill impairment test, in accordance with ASU 2011-08, Teradyne
assessed qualitative factors to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of the Wireless Test reporting unit was less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. Teradyne assessed the following events and circumstances
with respect to the Wireless Test reporting unit: macroeconomic conditions; industry and market considerations; overall financial performance compared with actual and projected results from prior periods and changes in management, strategy or
customers. After assessing the totality of these events and circumstances, Teradyne determined that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the Wireless Test reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Therefore remaining steps
were not required to be performed and there was no resulting impairment.

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by
reporting units for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:

Intangible Assets

Amortizable intangible assets consist of the following and are included in intangible assets, net on the balance sheets:



During the year ended December 31, 2009, Teradyne reduced the gross amount of intangible assets by
$2.5 million for the excess tax benefit realized due to the exercise of stock options vested as of the Nextest and Eagle Test acquisition dates.

Aggregate intangible assets amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $40.5 million, $29.3 million, and $32.3 million, respectively. Estimated intangible assets
amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years is as follows:

J.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Purchase Commitments

As of December 31, 2011, Teradyne had entered into non-cancelable purchase commitments for certain components and materials. The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to
approximately $199.3 million.

Lease Commitments

Rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $14.8 million, $14.3 million and $16.7 million, respectively.

Teradyne leases portions of its office and operating facilities under various operating lease arrangements. The following table reflects
Teradyne’s non-cancelable operating lease commitments:

(1)

Lease payments have not been reduced by sublease income of $0.5 million due in the future under non-cancelable subleases.



Legal Claims

Teradyne is subject to legal proceedings, claims and investigations that arise in the ordinary course of business such as, but not limited to, patent, employment, commercial and environmental matters.
Teradyne believes that it has meritorious defenses against all pending claims and intends to vigorously contest them. While it is not possible to predict or determine the outcomes of any pending claims or to provide possible ranges of losses that
may arise, Teradyne believes the potential losses associated with all of these actions are unlikely to have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position or results of operations.

Guarantees and Indemnification Obligations

Teradyne provides indemnification, to the extent permitted by law, to its officers, directors, employees and agents for liabilities arising from certain events or occurrences while the officer, director,
employee, or agent, is or was serving, at Teradyne’s request in such capacity. Teradyne has entered into indemnification agreements with certain of its officers and directors. With respect to acquisitions, Teradyne provides indemnifications to
or assumes indemnification obligations for the current and former directors, officers and employees of the acquired companies in accordance with the acquired companies’ bylaws and charter. As a matter of practice, Teradyne has maintained
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance coverage including coverage for directors and officers of acquired companies.

Teradyne enters into agreements in the ordinary course of business with customers, resellers, distributors, integrators and suppliers. Most of these agreements require Teradyne to defend and/or indemnify
the other party against intellectual property infringement claims brought by a third party with respect to Teradyne’s products. From time to time, Teradyne also indemnifies customers and business partners for damages, losses and liabilities
they may suffer or incur relating to personal injury, personal property damage, product liability and environmental claims relating to the use of Teradyne’s products and services or resulting from the acts or omissions of Teradyne, its
employees, authorized agents or subcontractors. On occasion, Teradyne has also provided guarantees to customers regarding the performance of its products in addition to the warranty described below.

As a matter of ordinary business course, Teradyne warrants that its products, including software products, will substantially perform in
accordance with its standard published specifications in effect at the time of delivery. Most warranties have a one year duration commencing from installation. A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenue for estimated
warranty expense upon historical experience. When Teradyne receives revenue for extended warranties beyond the standard duration, it is deferred and recognized on a straight line basis over the contract period. Related costs are expensed as
incurred. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Teradyne had a product warranty accrual of $8.2 million and $9.9 million, respectively, included in other accrued liabilities, and revenue deferrals related to extended warranties of $12.7 million and
$9.0 million, respectively, included in short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances.

In addition, and in the
ordinary course of business, Teradyne provides minimum purchase guarantees to certain of its vendors to ensure continuity of supply against the market demand. Although some of these guarantees provide penalties for cancellations and/or modifications
to the purchase commitments as the market demand decreases, most of the guarantees do not. Therefore, as the market demand decreases, Teradyne re-evaluates these guarantees and determines what charges, if any, should be recorded.

With respect to its agreements covering product, business or entity divestitures and acquisitions, Teradyne provides certain
representations, warranties and covenants to purchasers and agrees to indemnify and hold such purchasers harmless against breaches of such representations, warranties and covenants. Many of the indemnification claims have a definite expiration date
while some remain in force indefinitely. With respect to its acquisitions, Teradyne may, from time to time, assume the liability for certain events or occurrences that took place prior to the date of acquisition.



As a matter of ordinary course of business, Teradyne occasionally guarantees certain
indebtedness obligations of its subsidiary companies, limited to the borrowings from financial institutions, purchase commitments to certain vendors, and lease commitments to landlords.

Based on historical experience and information known as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, except for product warranty, Teradyne has not
recorded any liabilities for these guarantees and obligations as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 because the amount would be immaterial.

K.    NET INCOME (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share from continuing
and discontinued operations:

(1)

Income impact of convertible notes for 2010 represents interest expense that would have not been recorded if the notes converted at the beginning of the period.

(2)

Incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes for 2011 are calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period
and the conversion price of $5.48, multiplied by the 34.7 million shares that will be issued upon conversion. The result of this calculation, representing total intrinsic value of the convertible debt, is divided by the average Teradyne stock
price for the period. For 2010, incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes represent the 34.7 million of shares that will be issued upon conversion.

(3)

Convertible notes hedge warrant shares for 2011 and 2010 are calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period
and the warrant price of $7.67, multiplied by the 34.7 million shares that will be issued upon conversion. The result of this calculation, representing total intrinsic value of



the warrant, is divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period. Teradyne’s call option on its common stock (convertible note hedge transaction) is excluded from the calculation
of diluted shares because the effect would be anti-dilutive. See Note G: “Debt” regarding convertible note hedge transaction.

The computation of diluted net income per common share for 2011 excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock options to purchase approximately 0.7 million shares because the effect would have
been anti-dilutive.

The computation of diluted net income per common share for 2010 excludes the effect of the potential
exercise of stock options to purchase approximately 5.3 million shares because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.

The computation of diluted net loss per common share for the year ended December 31, 2009 excludes the effect of the potential
exercise of all outstanding stock options, restricted stock units, warrants, and shares related to the Notes because Teradyne had a net loss and inclusion would be anti-dilutive.

With respect to the Teradyne’s convertible debt, Teradyne intends to settle its conversion spread (i.e., the intrinsic value of the
embedded option feature contained in the convertible debt) in shares. Teradyne accounts for its conversion spread using the treasury stock method. In the fourth quarter of 2010, Teradyne determined that it had the ability and intent to settle the
principal amount of the convertible debt in cash, accordingly as of the fourth quarter of 2010; the principal amount has been excluded from the determination of diluted earnings per share.

L.    RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER

Restructuring

In response to a downturn in the industry in 2008 and 2009, Teradyne implemented restructuring activities across all segments to reduce costs, principally through headcount reductions and facility
consolidations. The remaining accrual for severance and benefits of $0.3 million is reflected in the accrued employees’ compensation and withholdings account on the balance sheet and is expected to be paid by July 2012. The remaining accrual
for lease payments on vacated facilities of $1.9 million is reflected in the other accrued liabilities account and the long-term other accrued liabilities account, and is expected to be paid out over the lease terms, the latest of which expires in
2013. Teradyne expects to pay approximately $0.9 million against the lease accruals over the next twelve months. Teradyne’s future lease commitments, as of December 31, 2011, are net of expected sublease income of $0.5 million. As of
December 31, 2011, Teradyne has subleased approximately 37% of its unoccupied space.





During the year ended December 31, 2011, Teradyne recorded the following restructuring activities:

Q1 2011 Actions:

–

$0.6 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of 5 people in Semiconductor Test.

Q2 2011 Actions:

–

$0.3 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of 2 people in Semiconductor Test.

Q2 2010 Actions:

–

$0.2 million related to a change in the estimated severance benefits related to headcount reductions in Semiconductor Test.

Q4 2010 Actions:

–

$0.1 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions in Semiconductor Test.

Pre-2009 Actions:

–

$(0.5) million credit related to changes in the estimated exit costs related to the Westford, MA and Poway, CA facilities in System Test Group, and the North Reading,
MA facility in Semiconductor Test and System Test Group.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, Teradyne
recorded the following restructuring activities:

Q1 2010 Actions:

–

$0.4 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 4 people in Semiconductor Test.

Q2 2010 Actions:

–

$0.9 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 6 people in Systems Test Group.

Q3 2010 Actions:

–

$0.4 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 10 people in Systems Test Group.



Q4 2010 Actions:

–

$0.1 million of severance charges related to the headcount reduction of 1 person in Systems Test Group.

Q2 2009 Actions:

–

$0.3 million related to a change in the estimated severance benefits related to headcount reduction activities in Semiconductor Test and System Test Group.

Pre-2009 Actions:

–

$(2.7) million credit related to the early exit of previously impaired leased facilities in Westford, Massachusetts.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, Teradyne recorded the following restructuring activities:

Q1 2009 Activity:

–

$17.2 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 515 people, of which $14.9 million and 460 people were in Semiconductor Test, $1.5
million and 39 people were in Systems Test Group, and $0.8 million and 16 people were in Corporate.

Q2 2009 Activity:

–

$15.4 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 304 people, of which $11.4 million and 267 people were in Semiconductor Test, $3.0
million and 25 people were in Corporate, and $1.0 million and 12 people were in Systems Test Group.

Q3 2009 Activity:

–

$4.1 million of charges in Corporate related to the early exit of a leased facility in North Reading.

Pre-2009 Activity:

–

$(0.4) million credit in Semiconductor Test for a revision in estimated sublease income at an exited leased facility in Ontario, Canada.

Other

During the year
ended December 31, 2011, Teradyne recorded $7.3 million of other charges related to the following:

–

$4.6 million related to acquisition costs; and

–

$2.7 million related to a non-U.S pension settlement.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, Teradyne recorded $(1.0) million of other net credits related to the following:

–

$1.1 million of long-lived asset impairment charges across both segments primarily related to the disposal of fixed assets as a result of the consolidation of
facilities in North Reading, Massachusetts;

–

$(2.0) million of credits related to finalization of certain Eagle Test purchase accounting items; and

–

$(0.1) million related to other miscellaneous.



M.    RETIREMENT PLANS

ASC 715,

“Compensation — Retirement Benefits”

requires an employer with defined benefit plans or
other postretirement benefit plans to recognize an asset or a liability on its balance sheet for the overfunded or underfunded status of the plans as defined by ASC 715. The pension asset or liability represents a difference between the fair value
of the pension plan’s assets and the projected benefit obligation at December 31.

Defined Benefit Pension Plans

Teradyne has defined benefit pension plans covering a portion of domestic employees and employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Benefits under these plans are based on employees’ years of service and compensation. Teradyne’s funding policy is to make contributions to the plans in accordance with local laws and to the extent that such contributions are tax
deductible. The assets of these plans consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities. In addition, Teradyne has an unfunded supplemental executive defined benefit plan in the United States to provide retirement benefits in excess of levels
allowed by the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) and the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”), as well as unfunded foreign plans.

Teradyne uses a December 31 measurement date for all of its plans. The December 31 balances of these defined benefit pension plans assets and obligations are shown below:



The following table provides amounts recorded within the account line items of the statement
of financial position as of December 31:

The following table provides amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of
December 31:

The estimated portion of net actuarial loss and prior service cost remaining in accumulated other
comprehensive loss that is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in 2012 is $13.8 million, and $0.2 million, respectively.

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $370.1 million and $324.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation and projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets as of
December 31, 2011:



Expense

For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, Teradyne’s net periodic pension costs were comprised of the following:

Weighted Average Assumptions to Determine Net Periodic Pension Cost at January 1

Weighted Average Assumptions to Determine Pension Obligations at December 31

In developing the expected return on plan assets assumption, Teradyne evaluated input from its investment
manager and pension consultants, including their review of asset class return expectations. Based on this review, Teradyne believes that 5.5% was an appropriate rate to use for fiscal 2011 for the U.S. Qualified Pension Plan (“U.S. Plan”).

Teradyne bases its determination of pension expense on a market-related valuation of assets, which reduces year-to-year
volatility. This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a



five-year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of assets
and the actual return on assets. Since the market-related value of assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of assets will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. As of December 31,
2011, under the U.S. Plan, Teradyne had cumulative gains of approximately $23.3 million, which remain to be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of assets. The discount rate utilized to determine future pension obligations for
the U.S. Plan is based on Citigroup Pension Index adjusted for the plan’s expected cash flows and was 4.2% at December 31, 2011, down from 5.3% at December 31, 2010.

Plan Assets

As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of
Teradyne’s pension plans’ assets totaled $339.6 million of which $319.1 million was related to the U.S. Plan, $19.8 million was related to the U.K. Defined Benefit Pension Plan, and $0.7 million was related to other foreign defined benefit
pension plans. Teradyne’s pension plans’ assets consisted primarily of investments in fixed-income and equity securities. Included in other pension plan assets for the U.S. Plan at December 31, 2010 is a real assets common trust fund with
underlying investments in REITs (real estate investment trusts), TIPS (U.S. Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities), equity securities of natural resource companies, and commodities. Substantially all our pension plan assets are held in individual
trusts, which were established for the investment of assets of Teradyne’s sponsored retirement plans.

Teradyne’s
weighted average pension asset allocation at December 31, 2011 and 2010, by asset category is as follows:

The assets of the U.S. Plan are overseen by the Teradyne Fiduciary Committee which is comprised of
members of senior management drawn from appropriate diversified levels of the management team. The Fiduciary Committee is responsible for setting the policy that provides the framework for management of the U.S. Plan assets. In accordance with its
responsibilities, the Fiduciary Committee meets on a regular basis to review the performance of the U.S. Plan assets and compliance with the investment policy. The policy sets forth an investment structure for managing U.S. Plan assets, including
setting the asset allocation ranges, which are expected to provide an appropriate level of overall diversification required to maximize the long-term return on plan assets for a prudent and reasonable level of risk given prevailing market
conditions, total investment return over the long term, and preservation of capital, while maintaining sufficient liquidity to pay the benefits of the U.S. Plan. The investment portfolio will not, at any time, have a direct investment in Teradyne
stock. It may have indirect investment in Teradyne stock, if one of the funds selected by the investment manager invests in Teradyne stock. In developing the asset allocation ranges, third party asset allocation studies are periodically performed
that consider the current and expected positions of the plan assets and funded status. Based on this study and other appropriate information, the Fiduciary Committee establishes asset allocation ranges taking into account acceptable risk targets and
associated returns. The investment return objectives are to avoid excessive volatility and produce a rate of return that at least matches the Policy Index identified below. The manager’s investment performance is reviewed at least annually.
Results for the total portfolio and for each major category of assets are evaluated in comparison with appropriate market indices, the Policy Index, other similarly managed portfolios and the Consumer Price Index.



The target asset allocation and the index for each asset category for the U.S. Plan, per the
investment policy, is as follows:

The assets of Teradyne’s foreign pension plans are invested in funds which seek to combine long-term
growth potential offered through equity exposure with the relative security provided by bonds and cash, and are governed locally by local management in accordance with specific jurisdictional requirements. Investments in the non-U.S. plans consist
primarily of fixed-income and equity securities. These investments are valued using significant observable inputs (Level 2). The fair market value of assets for the international pension plans was $20.5 million as of December 31, 2011. There
were no investments with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) in the non-U.S. pension plans.

Teradyne’s U.S. Plan
invests primarily in common trust funds. Units held in the common trust funds are valued at the unit price as reported by the investment managers based on the asset value of the underlying investments; underlying investments in equity securities are
valued at the last reported sales price, and underlying investments in fixed-income securities are generally valued using methods based upon market transactions for comparable securities and various relationships between securities which are
generally recognized by institutional traders. These investments are valued using significant observable inputs (Level 2). The fair market value of assets for the U.S. Plan was $319.1 million as of December 31, 2011. There were no investments
with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) in the U.S. Plan as of December 31, 2011.

The fair value of pension plan
assets by asset category and by level at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 were as follows:



Changes in the fair value of Level 3 pension plan assets for the year ended December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010 were as follows:

Contributions

Teradyne’s funding policy is to make contributions to the plans in accordance with local laws and to the extent that such contributions are tax deductible. During 2011, Teradyne contributed $1.7
million to the U.S. Supplemental Executive Defined Benefit Pension Plan and $8.5 million to certain qualified plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries. During 2010, Teradyne contributed $50.5 million, which included a $45.0 million discretionary contribution
to the U.S. Plan. During 2009, Teradyne contributed $12.4 million, which included a $7.5 million discretionary contribution to the U.S. Plan. 2012 contributions to certain Qualified Plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries are based on local statutory
requirements and will be approximately $1.7 million. 2012 contributions to the U.S. Supplemental Executive Defined Benefit Pension Plan will be approximately $1.8 million. Teradyne does not expect to make any contributions to the U.S. Plan in 2012.



Expected Future Pension Benefits Payments

The following benefit payments, which reflect future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:

Postretirement Benefit Plans

In addition to receiving pension benefits, U.S. Teradyne employees who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which
includes death, and medical and dental benefits up to age 65. Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees. Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for
these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.

Teradyne uses a December 31
measurement date for its plan. The December 31 balances of the postretirement assets and obligations are shown below:



The following table provides amounts recorded within the account line items of financial
position as of December 31:

The following table provides amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss (income) as of
December 31:

The estimated portion of net actuarial loss and prior service credit remaining in accumulated other
comprehensive income that is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic postretirement benefit cost in 2012 is $0.3 million and $(0.6) million, respectively.

Expense

For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, Teradyne’s net periodic postretirement benefit costs were comprised of the
following:



Weighted Average Assumptions to Determine Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost as of
January 1

Weighted Average Assumptions to Determine Postretirement Benefit Obligation as of December 31

Assumed health care trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for health care
plans. A one percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates for the year ended December 31, 2011, would have the following effects:

Expected Future Benefits Payments

The following benefit payments, which reflect future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:

N.    STOCK BASED COMPENSATION

Stock Compensation Plans

At Teradyne’s annual meeting of stockholders held May 28, 2009, Teradyne’s stockholders approved an amendment to Teradyne’s 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan to increase
the number of shares issuable by 10.0 million for an aggregate of 22.0 million shares issuable thereunder. Teradyne’s stockholders also approved an amendment to Teradyne’s 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan to increase the number
of shares issuable by 5.0 million, for an aggregate of 25.4 million shares issuable thereunder.

Restricted stock
unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years. Restricted stock unit awards granted to non-employee directors vest after a one year period, with 100% of the award vesting on the first anniversary of the grant
date. A portion of the restricted stock unit awards granted to executive officers is subject to time-based vesting and a portion of the 2011 and 2010 awards was subject to



performance-based vesting. The percentage level of performance satisfied for performance-based grants is assessed on or near the anniversary of the grant date and, in turn, that percentage level
determines the number of performance-based restricted stock units available for vesting over the vesting period; portions of the performance-based grants not available for vesting will be forfeited.

In 2011, 2010 and 2009, Teradyne granted service based stock options to executive officers. These stock options vest in equal
installments over four years and have a term of seven years.

Stock compensation plan activity for the years 2011, 2010 and
2009 follows:

Total shares available for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009:

Weighted-average restricted stock unit award date fair value information for the years 2011, 2010 and
2009 follows:



Restricted stock unit awards aggregate intrinsic value information at December 31 for
the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 follows:

Restricted stock units weighted average contractual terms (in years) information at December 31, for
the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 follows:




Outstanding

1.04

1.13

1.31

Expected to vest

1.03

1.12

1.30

Weighted average stock options exercise price information for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 follows:

Stock option aggregate intrinsic value information for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009 follows:

Stock options weighted average contractual terms (in years) information at December 31, for the
years 2011, 2010 and 2009 follows:




Outstanding

6.4

2.3

2.9

Vested and Expected to vest

7.5

5.4

3.4

Exercisable

4.0

1.7

2.4



Significant option groups outstanding at December 31, 2011 and related weighted average
price and remaining contractual life information follow:

As of December 31, 2011, total unrecognized expense related to non-vested restricted stock unit
awards and stock options totaled $60.3 million, and are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under the Teradyne 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employees (including executive officers) may purchase shares of common stock through regular payroll deductions of up to 10% of their
compensation, to a maximum of shares with a fair market value of $25,000 per calendar year, not to exceed 6,000 shares. Under the plan, the price paid for the common stock is equal to 85% of the lower of the fair market value of Teradyne’s
common stock on the first business day and the last business day of each six month purchase period within each year. In July 2011, 0.6 million shares of common stock were issued to employees who participated in the plan during the first half of
2011, at the price of $11.65 per share. In January 2012, Teradyne issued 0.6 million shares of common stock to employees who participated in the plan during the second half of 2011, at the price of $11.59 per share.

O.    SAVINGS PLAN

Teradyne sponsors a defined contribution employee retirement Savings Plan covering substantially all U.S. employees.
Under the Savings Plan, employees may contribute up to 20% of their compensation (subject to Internal Revenue Service limitations). In January 2009, Teradyne amended the Savings Plan to eliminate a fixed formula used to calculate the match and
provide for a variable discretionary match to be determined each year. In 2011 and 2010, Teradyne matched 100% of eligible employee contributions up to 4% of their compensation for employees not accruing benefits in the U.S. Qualified Pension Plan.
In 2009, Teradyne matched 100% of eligible employee contributions up to 2% of their compensation for employees not accruing benefits in the U.S. Qualified Pension Plan. There was no match for employees still actively accruing benefits in the U.S.
Qualified Pension Plan.

Teradyne’s contributions vest 25% per year for the first four years of employment, and
contributions for those employees with four years of service vest immediately. Teradyne also has established an unfunded Supplemental Savings Plan to provide savings benefits in excess of those allowed by ERISA and the IRC. The provisions of this
plan are the same as the Savings Plan. Under Teradyne’s savings plans, amounts charged to the statement of operations were $4.5 million in 2011, $4.9 million in 2010, and $1.7 million in 2009.



P.    INCOME TAXES

The components of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and the provision (benefit) for income
taxes from continuing operations as shown in the consolidated statements of operations were as follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2011, income tax benefit from continuing operations totaled $129.3
million, primarily attributable to the reduction of Teradyne’s deferred income tax valuation allowance. As of December 31, 2011 Teradyne evaluated the likelihood that it would realize the deferred income taxes to offset future taxable
income and concluded that it is more likely than not that a substantial majority of its deferred tax assets will be realized through consideration of both the positive and negative evidence. The evidence consisted primarily of its three year U.S.
historical cumulative profitability, projected future taxable income, forecasted utilization of the deferred tax assets and the fourth quarter of 2011 acquisition of LitePoint, offset by the volatility of the industries Teradyne operates in,
primarily the semiconductor industry. As such, Teradyne reduced the valuation allowance by $190.2 million, which was recorded as a tax benefit in the year ended December 31, 2011. Teradyne maintains a valuation allowance for certain
deferred tax assets of $51.1 million, primarily related to excess stock compensation deductions associated with pre-2006 activity, state net operating losses and state tax credit carryforwards, due to the uncertainty regarding their
realization. Adjustments could be required in the future if its estimate that the amount of deferred tax assets to be realized is more or less than the net amount Teradyne has recorded.

For the year ended December 31, 2010, income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $14.5 million, primarily related to
tax provisions for foreign taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2009, income tax benefit from continuing operations totaled $8.5 million, primarily related to Federal net operating loss carryback claims. The Federal carryback refund claims
are the result of losses incurred by Nextest and Eagle Test since their acquisition by Teradyne and for income taxes paid by Nextest and Eagle Test prior to their acquisition by Teradyne. The claims are due to the change in tax law enacted in
November 2009 which extended the carryback period for operating losses from two years to five years.



The total income tax provision (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009 was as follows:

Significant components of Teradyne’s deferred tax assets (liabilities) as of December 31, 2011
and 2010 were as follows:

At December 31, 2011, Teradyne had operating loss carryforwards that expire in the following years:



Of the U.S. Federal operating loss carryforwards, $28.2 million relates to the acquisition
of GenRad, Inc. in 2001. The GenRad losses are limited in the amount that can be used as a result of “change in ownership” rules as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The net operating loss carryforward includes $2.2 million of
excess tax deduction related to stock based compensation which has not been recognized for financial statement purposes.

Teradyne has approximately $110.8 million of tax credit carry forwards. Federal business tax credits of approximately
$27.5 million expire in the years 2019 through 2031. Teradyne has foreign tax credits of approximately $30.1 million expiring in the years 2013 through 2021 and alternative minimum tax credits of approximately $6.6 million, which do not
expire. In addition, there are state tax credits of $46.6 million which begin to expire in 2012.

During 2011,
Teradyne’s beginning of the year valuation allowance decreased by $190.2 million due to release of valuation allowance. During 2010 Teradyne’s valuation allowance decreased by $60.0 million primarily due to the reduction in the deferred
tax assets related to the decrease in net operating loss carryovers used in 2010. During 2009, Teradyne’s valuation allowance increased by $10.9 million primarily due to the reduction in the deferred tax liability related to purchased
intangibles.

A reconciliation of the effective tax rate for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 follows:

As of December 31, 2011, Teradyne has open tax years beginning in 2006 for major jurisdictions
including the U.S., Japan, Singapore and the United Kingdom. Teradyne records all interest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of income tax expense. Accrued interest and penalties related to income tax items at December 31,
2011 were not material.

Teradyne’s unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
were as follows:

Current year and prior year additions include assessment of potential transfer pricing issues worldwide,
federal tax credits, and state tax credits. Acquired tax positions include federal tax credits, state tax credits and



domestic production activities deduction. Reductions for tax positions for prior years relate to statute expiration. Of the $19.7 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2011,
$17.9 million would impact the consolidated income tax rate if ultimately recognized. The remaining $1.8 million would impact the valuation allowance if recognized.

As of December 31, 2011, a deferred tax liability has not been established for approximately $276.1 million of cumulative undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, as Teradyne plans to keep
these amounts permanently reinvested overseas. Beginning in 2006, Teradyne received from Singapore tax incentives for earnings from investments and related activities that began in that country in 2005. These incentives extend through 2015.

Q.    OPERATING SEGMENT, GEOGRAPHIC AND SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER INFORMATION

Teradyne has three operating segments (Semiconductor Test, Systems Test Group and Wireless Test), which are its
reportable segments. The Semiconductor Test segment includes operations related to the design, manufacturing and marketing of semiconductor test products and services. The Systems Test Group segment includes operations related to the design,
manufacturing and marketing of products and services for military/aerospace instrumentation test, storage test and circuit-board test. The Wireless Test segment includes operations related to the design, manufacturing and marketing of wireless test
products and services. Each operating segment has a segment manager who is directly accountable to and maintains regular contact with Teradyne’s chief operating decision maker (Teradyne’s chief executive officer) to discuss operating
activities, financial results, forecasts, and plans for the segment.

Teradyne evaluates performance using several factors, of
which the primary financial measure is business segment income from continuing operations before taxes. The accounting policies of the business segments are the same as those described in Note B: “Accounting Policies”.

Segment information for the years ending December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows:



(1)

Interest income and interest expense and other are included in Corporate and Eliminations.

(2)

Included in income from continuing operations before taxes are charges and credits related to restructuring and other, net, real estate gains (losses), investments,
inventory provision recovery and inventory write downs.

(3)

Total business assets are directly attributable to each business. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, unallocated fixed assets
of support departments, common facilities and certain other assets.

(4)

Corporate property additions and depreciation and amortization expense include items attributable to the unallocated fixed assets of support departments and common
facilities.

Included in the Semiconductor Test segment are charges and credits in the following accounts:

(1)

Included in the cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 are charges for excess inventory provision recorded primarily as a result of product transition.
Included in the cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 are charges for excess inventory provision recorded as a result of the significant decrease in forecasted semiconductor demand coupled with a product transition.

(2)

Included in the cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 is the cost for purchase accounting inventory step-up.

Included in the Systems Test Group segment are charges and credits in the following accounts:

Included in the Wireless Test segment are charges and credits in the following accounts:

(1)

Included in the cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 is the cost for purchase accounting inventory step-up.

Included in the Corporate and Eliminations segment are charges and credits in the following accounts:



Information as to Teradyne’s revenue in different geographical areas is as follows:

(1)

Revenues are attributable to geographic areas based on location of customer site.

In 2011 and 2010, no customer accounted for more than 10% of total consolidated revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2009, one
Systems Test Group customer accounted for approximately 13% of total consolidated revenue.

Long-lived assets by geographic
area:

R.    STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM

In November 2010, the Board cancelled the November 2007 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase
program for up to $200 million. The cumulative repurchases under the new program as of December 31, 2011 totaled 2.6 million shares of common stock for $31.2 million at an average price of $11.84.



SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION

(Unaudited)

The following sets forth certain unaudited consolidated quarterly statements of operations data for each of Teradyne’s last eight quarters. In management’s opinion, this quarterly information
reflects all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement for the periods presented. Such quarterly results are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations and should be read in
conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of Teradyne and the notes thereto included elsewhere herein.

(1)

Restructuring and other, net includes $0.8 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 5 people in Semiconductor Test Group and $(0.4)
million credit related to early exit of previously impaired leased facilities in Westford and North Reading, Massachusetts.



(2)

Restructuring and other, net includes $0.3 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 2 people in Semiconductor Test Group and $0.9
million related to pension settlement charges.

(3)

Restructuring and other, net includes $1.4 million of charges related to the acquisition of LitePoint.

(4)

Restructuring and other, net includes $1.7 million of charges related to Pension Settlement and $3.3 million to the acquisition of LitePoint.

(1)

Restructuring and other, net includes $0.9 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 5 people in Semiconductor Test Group.

(2)

Restructuring and other, net includes $0.4 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 7 people in System Test Group.



(3)

Restructuring and other, net includes $0.5 million of severance charges related to headcount reduction of approximately 10 people in System Test Group and $(2.5)
million credit related to early exit of previously impaired leased facilities in Westford, Massachusetts.

(4)

Restructuring and other, net includes $0.2 million of severance charges related to headcount reductions of approximately 2 people in Semiconductor Test Group and $(0.2)
million credit related to early exit of previously impaired leased facilities in Westford, Massachusetts.

Item 9:

Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure

None.

Item 9A:

Controls and procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

As of the end of the period covered by
this report, our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) promulgated under the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, our CEO and CFO
concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange
Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, including ensuring that such material information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and CFO,
as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth fiscal quarter ended
December 31, 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

In accordance with SEC responses to frequently asked questions regarding the evaluation of internal control of entities subject to a
business combination, we have excluded LitePoint Corporation from our assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. As previously announced, we acquired LitePoint Corporation on October 5, 2011 pursuant to an
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 14, 2011. The total assets and total revenues of LitePoint Corporation represent 3% and 2%, respectively, of our consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 31,
2011.

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as
such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our CEO and CFO, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
based on the framework in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, as stated
in their report which is included under Item 8 of this Annual Report.



Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Item 9B:

Other Information

None.



PART III

Item 10:

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

Certain information relating to our directors and executive officers, committee information, reports and charters, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management
and related stockholder matters, and certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated by reference herein from our definitive proxy statement in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 22, 2012. The
proxy statement will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this purpose, the Compensation Committee Report included in such proxy statement is specifically not incorporated herein. Also see “Item
1: Business—Our Executive Officers.”

Item 11:

Executive Compensation.

Certain information relating to our directors and executive officers, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters, and certain
relationships and related transactions is incorporated by reference herein from our definitive proxy statement in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 22, 2012. The proxy statement will be filed with the SEC not
later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this purpose, the Compensation Committee Report included in such proxy statement is specifically not incorporated herein.

Item 12:

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.

Certain information relating to our directors and executive officers, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management and related stockholder matters, and certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated by reference herein from our definitive proxy statement in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
May 22, 2012. The proxy statement will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this purpose, the Compensation Committee Report included in such proxy statement is specifically not incorporated
herein. Also see “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Equity Compensation Plans.”

Item 13:

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.

Certain information relating to our directors and executive officers, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management and related stockholder matters, and certain relationships and related transactions is incorporated by reference herein from our definitive proxy statement in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
May 22, 2012. The proxy statement will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this purpose, the Compensation Committee Report included in such proxy statement is specifically not incorporated
herein.

Item 14:

Principal Accountant Fees and Services.

Certain information relating to audit fees and other of Teradyne’s independent registered public accounting firm is incorporated by reference herein from our definitive proxy statement in connection
with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 22, 2012. The proxy statement will be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this purpose, the Audit Committee Report included in such proxy
statement is specifically not incorporated herein.



PART IV

Item 15:

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

15(a)(1) Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial
statements are included in Item 8:

15(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules

The following consolidated financial statement schedule is included in Item 15(c):

Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Schedules other than those
listed above have been omitted since they are either not required or information is otherwise included.

15(a)(3) Listing of Exhibits

The Exhibits which are filed with this report or which are incorporated by reference herein are set forth in the Exhibit
Index.

15(c) Financial Statement Schedules



TERADYNE, INC.

SCHEDULE II—VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



EXHIBIT INDEX

The following designated exhibits are, as indicated below, either filed herewith or have heretofore been filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and are referred to and incorporated by reference to such filings.









†

-Confidential treatment granted.

*

-Management contract or compensatory plan.

**

XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of sections 11 or
12 of the Securities Act of 1933, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized this 29th day of February, 2012.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

103