Item 1A. Risk Factors

Cautionary Statement about Forward-Looking Statements

We have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, including the overview of the Company and each of our segments and the discussion of their respective
  economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2013. These sections and other parts of this report (including this Item 1A) contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. They are based on management’s assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic
  and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. They are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update or revise
  any of our forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. These forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this Form 10-K, including, in particular,
  the factors discussed below.

Risk Factors

Our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.

Industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations.




automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, and regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, delays in launch schedules for new automotive platforms, and consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket products. Demand of global automotive and truck
  manufacturers will continue to be influenced by a wide variety of factors, including ability of consumers to obtain financing, ability to reduce operating costs and overall consumer and business confidence. Each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw material prices (as further described below) and non-
  material inflation.

Raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities.

The cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our Performance Materials and Technologies (cumene, fluorspar, perchloroethylene, R240, natural gas, sulfur and ethylene), Transportation Systems (nickel, steel and other metals) and Aerospace (nickel, titanium and other
  metals) segments. Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations.

Our facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to, among other things, fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of these facilities or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, result in
  personal injury or property damage, damage relationships with our customers and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities or systems, as well as result in other liabilities and adverse impacts. The same risk could also arise from the failure of critical systems supplied by Honeywell to large
  industrial, refining and petrochemical customers.




Our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins.

Our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and
  maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain
  individuals with the requisite expertise.

Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. These development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new
  technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings
  by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects.

Protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts.

We own or are licensed under a large number of U.S. and non-U.S. patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. Our intellectual property rights may expire or be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third
  party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. In some non-U.S. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. Any of these events or factors could diminish
  or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services.

Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations.

Global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (IT) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company and/or its third party service providers.
  While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the Company. Although we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption,
  vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and
  confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and
  engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations.

An increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-U.S. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations.

Our international operations, including U.S. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results. Our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as China, India, the Middle East and other high growth regions.




In 2012, approximately 55 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the U.S. and sold outside the U.S. as well as products manufactured in international locations) were outside of the U.S. including approximately 28 percent in Europe and approximately 13 percent in Asia. Risks related to
  international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private
  enterprises, government instability, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. We are also subject to U.S. laws prohibiting companies from doing business in certain countries, or restricting the type of business that may be
  conducted in these countries. The cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable
  operating margins.

Uncertain global economic conditions arising from circumstances such as sovereign debt issues, slowing growth in emerging regions and credit rating downgrades in certain European countries or speculation regarding changes to the composition or viability of the Euro zone could result in reduced customer
  confidence resulting in decreased demand for our products and services, disruption in payment patterns and higher default rates, a tightening of credit markets (see risk factor below regarding volatility of credit markets for further discussion), increased risk regarding supplier performance, increased counterparty
  risk with respect to the financial institutions with which we do business, and exchange rate fluctuations. While we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to
  the financial institutions with whom we transact business could expose Honeywell to financial loss.

Sales and purchases in currencies other than the US dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the US dollar and may adversely affect our results of operations. Currency fluctuations may affect product demand and prices we pay for materials, as a result, our operating margins may be
  negatively impacted. Fluctuations in exchange rates may give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of our non-U.S. businesses are translated into U.S. dollars. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and seek to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, such activities
  bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or successful in significantly mitigating such volatility.

Volatility of credit markets or macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business.

Changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by
  independent rating agencies. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing.

Delays in our customers’ ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing to our customers, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. The inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could result in the need to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant
  incremental cost and delay, as discussed above. Lastly, disruptions in the U.S. and global financial markets could impact the financial institutions with which we do business.

We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets or available for sale investments.

At December 31, 2012, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) and available for sale securities totaled approximately $19.9 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we
  periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other
  long-lived assets. An other than temporary decline in the market value of our available for




sale securities may also result in an impairment charge. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners’ equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively
  impact our credit rating and access to the public debt and equity markets.

A change in the level of U.S. Government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact Aerospace’s defense and space sales and results of operations.

Sales of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the U.S. defense budget. Sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense comprised approximately 27 and 9 percent of Aerospace and total sales,
  respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012. We cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2013 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by Congress, or be included in the scope of separate
  supplemental appropriations. We also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. A shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate
  and/or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations.

As a supplier of military and other equipment to the U.S. Government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the U.S. Government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance.

In addition to normal business risks, companies like Honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the U.S. Government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and
  regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract requirements, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for frequent design improvements, intense competition for U.S. Government business necessitating
  increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the industry, such as contract award protests and delays in the timing of contract approvals.
  Changes are customary over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments to contract prices and schedules.

Our contracts with the U.S. Government are also subject to various government audits. Like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts or changes to certain accounting systems or controls to comply with various
  government regulations. When appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future.

U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable
  costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for reprocurement costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and for other damages suffered by the
  government as permitted under the contract.

We are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. If, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), Honeywell or one of its businesses were
  found to have violated applicable law, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. The U.S. Government




also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years.

Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, vendors, agents or business partners.

We cannot ensure that our extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures will, in all instances, protect us from reckless, unethical or criminal acts committed by our employees, vendors, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates,
  including laws governing payments to government officials, competition, data privacy and rights of employees. Any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations and
  reputation.

Changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations.

Completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned.

We regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. We may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i)
  the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into Honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, (iv) the inability to dispose
  of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected timeframe, and (v) the degree of protection provided by indemnities from sellers of acquired companies and the obligations under indemnities provided to purchasers of our divested businesses.

We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties.

We are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and
  divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. Resolution of these matters can be




prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. Moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and
  we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total
  amount of all insured claims and liabilities. It also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. The incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and
  financial condition.

Our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.

Our expenses include significant costs related to employee and retiree health benefits.

With approximately 132,000 employees, including approximately 52,000 in the U.S., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health benefits are significant. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our
  control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. Continued increasing health-care costs, legislative or regulatory changes, and volatility in discount rates, as well as changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health benefit expenses, may adversely
  affect our financial position and results of operations.

Risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.

Significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and pension contributions in future periods. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using
  actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding requirements for our U.S. pension plans may become more significant. However, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among
  other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. For a discussion regarding the significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense, including discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan
  assets, and how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan




accounting policies, see “Critical Accounting Policies” included in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability.

We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. In 2012, our tax expense represented 24.4 percent of our income before tax, and
  includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company, that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Our future results of operations could be adversely affected by
  changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets
  and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures.

