
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10K REPORT FOR TYSON FOODS, INC.












































                               UNITED STATES
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          Washington, D.C. 20549

                                 FORM 10-K

[X]  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934
     For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000

[ ]  Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934
     For the transition period from ________________ to ________________

     Commission File No. 0-3400

                             TYSON FOODS, INC.
          (Exact Name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)

            Delaware                                71-0225165
(State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

2210 West Oaklawn Drive, Springdale, Arkansas      72762-6999
(Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (501) 290-4000

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of Each Class      Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
     -------------------      -----------------------------------------
     Class A Common Stock,         New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
       Par Value $0.10

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
     Not Applicable

Indicate  by  check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed  all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange  Act
of  1934  during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to  Item
405  of  Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to  the  best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in part III of this Form 10-K  or  any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ ]

On September 30, 2000, the aggregate market value of the Class A Common and
Class  B  Common voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant  was
$1,124,625,160 and $464,880, respectively.

On  September  30, 2000, there were outstanding 121,899,309 shares  of  the
registrant's Class A Common Stock, $0.10 par value, and 102,645,048  shares
of its Class B Common Stock, $0.10 par value.

                             Page 1 of 94 Pages
            The Exhibit Index appears on pages 19 through 24

                    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The  following documents or the indicated portions thereof are incorporated
herein  by  reference into the indicated portions of this Annual Report  on
Form   10-K:  (i)  pages  20-52  of  the  registrant's  Annual  Report   to
Shareholders for fiscal year ended September 30, 2000 (the "Annual Report")
which  are  filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K and (ii) the registrant's
definitive   Proxy  Statement  for  the  registrant's  Annual  Meeting   of
Shareholders to be held January 12, 2001 (the "Proxy Statement").

                                  PART I

     Item 1.  Business


       Pages  20  through  28  of  the  Annual  Report  under  the  caption
"Management's Discussion and Analysis."


                                  PART II


       Item   5.   Market  for  Registrant's  Common  Equity  and   Related
Stockholder Matters

      Pages  34, 48 and 51 of the Annual Report under the captions "Capital
Stock",  "Eleven-Year Financial Summary"  and "Closing Price  of  Company's
Common Stock."


     Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

     Pages 48 of the Annual Report under the caption "Eleven-Year Financial
Summary."


      Item  7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations

       Pages  20  through  28  of  the  Annual  Report  under  the  caption
"Management's Discussion and Analysis."

     Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks

     Pages 25 through 27 of the Annual Report under the caption "Market
Risk."

     Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

      Pages  29  through 45 and 47 of the Annual Report under the  captions
"Consolidated   Statements  of  Income,"  "Consolidated  Balance   Sheets,"
"Consolidated    Statements   of   Shareholders'   Equity,"   "Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows," "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" and
"Report of Independent Auditors."





                                 Part III

     Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      The  information set forth under the captions "Election of Directors"
and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting" in the Proxy Statement.


     Item 11.  Executive Compensation

      The  information set forth under the caption "Executive  Compensation
and Other Information" in the Proxy Statement.


      Item  12.   Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners  and
Management

      The information set forth under the captions "Principal Shareholders"
and "Security Ownership of Management" in the Proxy Statement.


     Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      The information set forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" in
the Proxy Statement.


































                                  PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

General

      Tyson  Foods,  Inc.  and its various subsidiaries (collectively,  the
"Company") produce, distribute and market chicken, Mexican foods,  prepared
foods,  animal  and  pet  food  ingredients  and  live  swine.   Tyson  has
strengthened  its focus on its core business, chicken.  The Company's  goal
is  to  be the undisputed world leader in growing, processing and marketing
chicken  and  chicken-based food products.  Tyson is a  totally  integrated
poultry  company.   As the owner of Cobb-Vantress, the number-one  breeding
stock  supplier in the world, Tyson invests in breeding stock research  and
development.  This allows the Company to breed into its flocks the  natural
characteristics  found  to  be most desirable.   The  Company's  integrated
operations  consist  of  breeding and rearing  chickens,  as  well  as  the
processing,  further-processing and marketing of these food  products.  The
Company's  products are marketed and sold to national and regional  grocery
chains,  regional grocery wholesalers, clubs and warehouse stores, military
commissaries, industrial food processing companies, national  and  regional
chain restaurants or their distributors, international export companies and
domestic distributors who service restaurants, foodservice operations  such
as  plant  and school cafeterias, convenience stores, hospitals  and  other
vendors.  Sales  are  made  by  the  Company's  sales  staffs  located   in
Springdale,  Arkansas,  in  regions throughout the  United  States  and  in
several  foreign  countries. Additionally, sales  to  the  military  and  a
portion  of  sales  to  international markets are made through  independent
brokers  and trading companies. The Company is a fully-integrated producer,
processor  and  marketer  of  a  variety of  food  products.   The  Company
presently identifies segments based on the products offered and the  nature
of  customers, resulting in four reported business segments: Food  Service,
Consumer  Products, International and Swine. The Company commenced business
in  1935,  was incorporated in Arkansas in 1947, and was reincorporated  in
Delaware in 1986.

Description

      Originally,  the  Company  was a producer and  distributor  of  fresh
chicken.  The  Company developed a strategy to reduce  the  impact  of  the
commodity  market  of the fresh chicken business through value-enhancement.
As  the  industry  leader in value-enhanced chicken products,  the  Company
utilizes  national and regional advertising, special promotions  and  brand
identification,  and  meets the varying demands of  its  customers  through
capital  expenditures  and strategic acquisitions.  With  further-processed
chicken  products, grain costs as a percentage of total product  costs  are
reduced  because  of the value added to the products by cutting,  deboning,
cooking, packaging and/or freezing the chicken.











      The  Company's vertically-integrated chicken process begins with  the
grandparent  breeder  flocks.  Breeder farms specialize  in  producing  the
generations  of male and female strains, with the broiler being  the  final
progeny.  The breeder flocks are raised to maturity in grandparent  growing
and  laying  farms where fertile eggs are produced.  The fertile  eggs  are
incubated  at the grandparent hatchery and produce male and female  pullets
(i.e.,  the  parents).   The pullets are sent to breeder  houses,  and  the
resulting  eggs  are  sent to Company hatcheries.   Once  the  chicks  have
hatched, they are sent to broiler farms.  There, contract growers care  for
and  raise  the  chicks  according  to  Company  standards  and  under  the
supervision of Company technical service personnel until the broilers  have
reached  the desired processing weight.  The adult chickens are caught  and
hauled   to  processing  plants.   The  finished  products  are   sent   to
distribution  centers  and  then  transported  to  customers.   Vertically-
integrated  poultry  companies operate their  own  feed  mills  to  produce
scientifically-formulated  feeds.   Corn  and  soybean   meal   are   major
production  costs in the poultry industry, representing roughly  70-75%  of
the  cost  of  growing  a  chicken. The Company processed  approximately  7
billion pounds of consumer chicken during fiscal 2000.

     The  Company's chicken business consists of the Food Service, Consumer
Products and International segments.  Food Service provides a full range of
products from raw to fully-cooked, marinated, breaded, glazed or portioned.
Food   Service  products  are  sold  across  the  country  to  restaurants,
institutional, industrial and supermarket deli customers.   This  group  is
responsible  for  almost  half  the  Company's  total  sales  and  is   the
cornerstone  of Tyson's value-added strategy.  By selling more  value-added
products,  Tyson  somewhat insulates itself from the  price  volatility  of
commodity  poultry, better meets its customers' needs and positions  itself
for  sales growth.  Consumer Products is composed of retail, club store and
military commissary divisions.  Tyson sells to every national grocery store
chain and every wholesale club chain in the United States and to every U.S.
military commissary in the world.  Retail customers purchase Tyson products
for  the at-home consumption market.  These customers include national  and
regional  grocery  chains  and  grocery  wholesalers.   Club  stores  offer
products  aimed  at  the consumer willing to buy in  larger  quantities  to
realize cost savings and to foodservice operators who prefer to purchase in
smaller  quantities from a club store rather than from a distributor.   The
Company's  International segment is focused on growing from an exporter  of
low-valued  products  to a market-oriented, globalized  division,  building
value  through  long-term  brand establishment  and  value-added  products.
Exported   value-added  products  include  breaded,  fully-cooked  chicken,
prepared  meals  and  product lines created for  specific  foodservice  and
retail  customers.  Commodity chicken products include dark  meat  segments
such  as drumsticks, thighs and items with low domestic value such as feet,
wing tips and necks. The international division exported to 73 countries in
fiscal  2000. Major markets include China, Hong Kong, Japan, Mexico, Puerto
Rico and Russia.

     The Company's farrow to finish swine operations, which include genetic
and  nutritional research, breeding, farrowing and feeder pig finishing and
the marketing of live swine to regional and national packers, are conducted
in  Arkansas,  Missouri,  North Carolina and  Oklahoma.  The  Company  sold
approximately 2 million head of feeder pigs and market weight live swine in
fiscal 2000.




     The  Company's  other groups include Mexican Original, Culinary  Foods
and  Mallard's Food Products which produce flour and corn tortilla products
and  specialty pasta and meat dishes, for restaurants, airlines  and  other
major  customers.  The  Company's wholly owned  subsidiary,  Cobb-Vantress,
supplies  chicken breeding stock.  The Company's World Resources subsidiary
trades  agricultural  goods  worldwide.  Additionally,  the  Company's  by-
products  operations convert inedible chicken by-products  into  high-grade
pet food and animal feed ingredients.

Sources of Revenue

      The  following table sets forth the relative sources of the Company's
sales by segment for the last three fiscal years.

                                            For Fiscal Year Ended
                                            ---------------------
                                       2000         1999          1998
                                       ----         ----          ----
Food Service(1)                       $3,312       $3,354        $3,329
Consumer Products(2)                   2,250        2,252         2,074
International(3)                         657          645           593
Swine(4)                                 157          110           160
Seafood(5)                                -           189           214
Other (6)                                782          813         1,044
                                      ------       ------        ------
Total                                 $7,158       $7,363        $7,414
                                      ======       ======        ======

(1)   Includes  products  such as chicken patties and  nuggets,  pre-cooked
chicken, individually-quick-frozen chicken segments, pre-packaged and  pre-
priced  chicken,  Cornish  game hens and other chicken  products  to  which
certain  processes  are  added  to enhance their  value  to  the  Company's
customers.  Also  includes fresh and frozen chicken products  sold  without
value  enhancements. These products are sold through domestic  foodservice,
specialty  and  commodity distributors who deliver to restaurants,  schools
and  other  foodservice accounts. Food Service products are sold under  the
following  brands  and registered trademarks: Tyson, Honey  Stung,  Tyson's
Pride, HoneyBest, Wing Stingers, W.W. Flyers, Signature Specialties, Flavor-
Redi, Lady Aster, Quality Cuisine, Our Finest, Mexican Original and McCarty
Foods.

(2)  Includes  products  such as chicken patties  and  nuggets,  pre-cooked
chicken, individually-quick-frozen chicken segments, pre-packaged and  pre-
priced  chicken,  Cornish  game hens and other chicken  products  to  which
certain  processes  are  added  to enhance their  value  to  the  Company's
customers.  Also  includes fresh and frozen chicken products  sold  without
value  enhancements.   These  products are  sold  through  domestic  retail
markets for at-home consumption and through wholesale club markets targeted
to  small  foodservice operators, individuals and small businesses.  Tyson,
Weaver,  Tyson  Holly Farms, Mexican Original and Mallard's are  registered
trademarks under which the Company sells Consumer Products.

(3)    Includes  the  complete  line  of chicken  products,  including  leg
quarters, sold throughout the world.

(4)  Includes feeder pig finishing and marketing of live swine to regional
and national packers.


(5)  Includes  surimi-based  products  as  well  as  breaded  and  battered
seafood, filets and crab.  The seafood business was sold on July 17, 1999.

(6)  Other  includes  Mexican  Original,  Culinary  Foods,  Mallard's  Food
Products,  the  Company's wholly owned Cobb-Vantress  and  World  Resources
subsidiaries,  as well as the Company's turkey and egg products  facilities
which were sold on December 31, 1998.

Marketing and Distribution

      The  Company seeks to develop and increase the demand for and  market
share  of a product or product line through concentrated national and local
advertising  and  other promotional efforts.  These coordinated  activities
stress  the  quality and value proposition of the products while supporting
and building brand awareness. The Company's principal marketing strategy is
to  identify  target  markets for value-enhanced food  products  consisting
primarily  of chicken based food products. The Company identifies  distinct
markets  and business opportunities through extensive consumer  and  market
research.  The Company concentrates production, sales and marketing efforts
in  order  to  appeal  to and enhance the demand from  those  markets.  The
Company  utilizes  its  national distribution system and  customer  support
services to achieve a dominant market position for its products.

      The  Company's nationwide distribution system utilizes a  network  of
food  distributors which is supported by cold storage warehouses  owned  or
leased  by  the  Company,  by public cold storage  facilities  and  by  the
Company's  transportation  system. The  Company  ships  products  from  two
Company-owned  consolidated  frozen  food  distribution  centers  having  a
storage  capacity  of approximately 58 million pounds, from  a  network  of
public  cold  storages, from other owned or leased facilities  or  directly
from plants.  The Company has a total frozen storage capacity in excess  of
142 million pounds, excluding public or outside cold storage. The Company's
distribution centers facilitate accumulating frozen products so that it can
fill  and  consolidate  less-than-truckload orders  into  full  truckloads,
thereby  decreasing  shipping costs while increasing customer  service.  In
addition, customers are provided with a selection of products that  do  not
require  large volume orders. The Company's distribution system enables  it
to   supply  large  or  small  quantities  of  products  to  meet  customer
requirements anywhere in the continental United States.

      The  Company continues to believe that Asia offers potential in terms
of  developing processing facilities. The Company recently entered  into  a
joint venture in China to further process U.S. produced meat. The Company's
joint  venture,  to  create a commercial feed and swine  operation  in  the
Philippines, called Fil-Am Foods, Inc., with Aboitiz Equity Ventures,  Inc.
and  PM  Nutrition Company, Inc., a subsidiary of Purina Mills,  Inc.,  has
been  operational since 1999. Meanwhile, the Company's subsidiary in Mexico
continues  to grow rapidly under improving economic conditions. The  Mexico
subsidiary suffered from an outbreak of the Exotic Newcastle disease during
the year, reducing its sales and profits.  By year end the disease had been
eradicated  from  the  Company's  facilities  and  production  volumes  had
recovered  to  normal  levels.  The Company has entered  into  a  technical
service  agreement with Grupo Melo in Panama to assist Grupo Melo with  the
production  of further processed products and allowing them to license  the
Tyson brand.  Additionally, Cobb-Vantress, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary,
has  entered into a joint venture agreement with a company to build  a  180
thousand capacity breeder farm in China.


Raw Materials and Sources of Supply

      The  primary  raw  materials  used by  the  Company  in  its  chicken
operations  consist  of  feed ingredients, cooking  ingredients,  packaging
materials  and cryogenic agents. The Company believes that its  sources  of
supply  for  these  materials are adequate for its present  needs  and  the
Company does not anticipate any difficulty in acquiring these materials  in
the  future. While the Company produces substantially all of its  inventory
of  breeder  chickens and live broilers, it has the capability to  purchase
live, ice-packed or deboned chicken to meet production requirements.

Patents and Trademarks

      The  Company  has registered a number of trademarks relating  to  its
products  which  either  have  been approved  or  are  in  the  process  of
application.  Because the Company does a significant amount of  brand  name
and  product  line  advertising to promote its products, it  considers  the
protection of such trademarks to be important to its marketing efforts. The
Company has also developed non-public proprietary information regarding its
production  processes  and  other  product-related  matters.  The   Company
utilizes  internal procedures and safeguards to protect the confidentiality
of such information, and where appropriate, seeks patent protection for the
technology it utilizes.

Seasonal Demand

      The demand for the Company's products generally increases during  the
spring  and summer months and generally decreases during the winter months.
Because  of the somewhat seasonal character of the Company's business,  the
Company  may  increase its finished product inventories during  the  winter
months in anticipation of increased spring and summer demands.

Industry Practices

      The Company's agreements with its customers are generally short-term,
verbal  agreements  due primarily to the nature of its  products,  industry
practice and the fluctuation in demand and price for such products.

Customer Relations

      No  single customer of the Company accounts for more than ten percent
of  the  Company's consolidated revenues. However, two customers  represent
approximately  19%  of  the Food Service segment's sales,  three  customers
represent  approximately 49% of the Consumer Products segment's  sales  and
two  customers  represent  approximately 59% of Swine  sales.  The  Company
believes the loss of any single customer would not have a material  adverse
effect  on the Company's business. Although any extended discontinuance  of
sales  to any major customer could, if not replaced, have an impact on  the
Company's  operations, the Company does not anticipate any such occurrences
due to the demand for its products and its ability to obtain new customers.

Backlog of Orders

     There is no significant backlog of unfilled orders for the Company's
products.




Competition

      The Company's food products compete with those of other national  and
regional   food   producers  and  processors  and  certain  prepared   food
manufacturers.  Additionally,  the  Company's  food  products  compete   in
international  markets around the world. The Company's principal  marketing
and  competitive strategy is to  identify target markets for value-enhanced
products, to concentrate production, sales and marketing efforts  in  order
to  appeal to and enhance the demand from those markets and, utilizing  its
national  distribution system and customer support services, to  achieve  a
dominant market position for its products. Past efforts have indicated that
customer   demand   generally  can  be  increased  and  sustained   through
application  of  the  Company's marketing strategy,  as  supported  by  its
distribution system.

Research and Development

     The Company conducts continuous research and development activities to
improve  the  strains  of  primary  chicken  breeding  stock,  the  genetic
qualities  of  swine,  and  finished product development.  Additionally,  a
separate  staff  of  research and development personnel  is  maintained  to
develop and provide for product needs. The annual cost of such research and
development programs is less than one percent of total consolidated  annual
sales.

Regulation

      The  Company's facilities for processing chicken and for housing live
chicken and swine are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws
relating  to  the  protection  of  the  environment,  including  provisions
relating  to the discharge of materials into the environment,  and  to  the
health  and  safety  of its employees. The Company's  chicken  and  Mexican
Original  processing  and  distribution  facilities  are  also  subject  to
extensive  inspection  and regulation by the United  States  Department  of
Agriculture. Additionally, the Company's chicken processing facilities  are
participants in the government's pilot Hazardous Analysis Critical  Control
Point  (HACCP)  program.  The  cost  of  compliance  with  such  laws   and
regulations  has  not  had  a material adverse effect  upon  the  Company's
capital  expenditures,  earnings or competitive  position  and  it  is  not
anticipated to have a material adverse effect in the future.

Employees and Labor Relations

     As  of  September 30, 2000, the Company employed approximately  68,000
persons.  The  Company believes that its relations with its  workforce  are
good.













Set forth below is a listing of the Company facilities which have employees
subject to a collective bargaining agreement together with the name of  the
union party to the collective bargaining agreement, the number of employees
at  the  facility subject thereto and the expiration date of the collective
bargaining agreement currently in effect.

Location                   Union      No. of People      Expiration Date
- --------                   -----      -------------      ---------------
Albertville, AL             UFCW           750           December 31, 2001
Ashland, AL                 UFCW           775           February 24, 2002
Berlin, MD                  UFCW           250           December 21, 2001
Berlin, MD                Teamsters        250           December 16, 2001
Buena Vista, GA            RWDSU         1,225           November 1, 2003
Carthage, TX                UFCW           700           November 8, 2003
Center, TX                  UFCW         1,000           February 1, 2003
Chicago, IL             Truck Drivers      900           October 6, 2001
Cleveland, MS              RWDSU           450           February 22, 2004
Corydon, IN                 UFCW           400           January 26, 2002
Corydon, IN             Steelworkers        50           October 12, 2002
Dardanelle, AR              UFCW         1,075           November 3, 2001
Gadsden/Blountsville, AL  Teamsters         25           March 31, 2001
Gadsden, AL                RWDSU         1,000           November 8, 2001
Glen Allen, VA              UFCW           975           November 1, 2001
Robards, KY                 UFCW           800           April 21, 2001
Hope, AR                    UFCW         1,350           March 2, 2003
Jackson, MS                 UFCW           775           December 28, 2002
Jacksonville, FL          Teamsters        750           December 31, 2002
Noel, MO                    UFCW         1,425           December 2, 2002
Pine Bluff, AR              UFCW           300           October 12, 2002
Shelbyville, TN            RWDSU           975           November 15, 2002
Shelbyville, TN           Teamsters         25           August 4, 2001
Wilkesboro, NC            Teamsters         50           November 4, 2001
Wilkesboro, NC            Teamsters         75           November 4, 2001
Wilkesboro, NC            Teamsters        100           November 4, 2001

UFCW - United Food and Commercial Workers Union
RWDSU - Retail, Wholesale, Department Store Union

The  Company  has not experienced any strike or work stoppage which  had  a
material impact on operations.


CAUTIONARY  STATEMENTS  RELEVANT  TO FORWARD-LOOKING  INFORMATION  FOR  THE
PURPOSE  OF  "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES  LITIGATION
REFORM ACT OF 1995

      The Company and its representatives from time to time make written or
oral  forward-looking statements with respect to their  current  views  and
estimates  of  future economic circumstances, industry conditions,  company
performance  and  financial results. These forward-looking  statements  are
subject to a  number of  factors and uncertainties  which  could  cause the
Company's  actual  results and experiences to differ  materially  from  the
anticipated  results  and  expectations expressed in  such  forward-looking
statements.  The  Company  wishes to caution readers  not  to  place  undue
reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date
made.



     Among the factors that may affect the operating results of the Company
are  the following:  (i) fluctuations in the cost and availability  of  raw
materials,  such as feed grain costs; (ii) changes in the availability  and
relative  costs of labor and contract growers; (iii) market conditions  for
finished   products,  including  the  supply  and  pricing  of  alternative
proteins; (iv) effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs; (v) the
ability  of  the Company to make effective acquisitions and to successfully
integrate  newly acquired businesses into existing operations;  (vi)  risks
associated  with leverage, including cost increases due to rising  interest
rates;  (vii) risks associated with effectively evaluating derivatives  and
hedging  activities  (viii)  changes in  regulations  and  laws,  including
changes  in accounting standards, environmental laws, occupational,  health
and  safety laws; (ix) adverse results from on-going litigation; (x) access
to  foreign  markets  together with foreign economic conditions,  including
currency  fluctuations;  and (xi) the effect of,  or  changes  in,  general
economic conditions.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

      The  Company currently has production and distribution operations  in
the  following  states:  Alabama, Arkansas, California,  Florida,  Georgia,
Illinois,   Indiana,  Kentucky,  Maryland,  Mississippi,  Missouri,   North
Carolina,   Oklahoma,   Pennsylvania,  Tennessee,   Texas   and   Virginia.
Additionally, the Company, either directly or through its subsidiaries, has
facilities  in  or participates in joint venture operations  in  Argentina,
Brazil,  China,  Denmark, Indonesia, Japan, Korea,  Malaysia,  Mexico,  the
Philippines, Puerto Rico, Russia, Spain, the United Kingdom and Venezuela.

      The  principal  chicken  operations of  the  Company  consist  of  61
processing  plants.  These  plants  are  devoted  to  various   phases   of
slaughtering, dressing, cutting, packaging, deboning or further-processing.
The total slaughter capacity is approximately 49 million head per week.

     To support the above facilities the Company operates 38 feed mills and
77  broiler  hatcheries with sufficient capacity to meet the needs  of  the
chicken  growout  operations.  In addition, the Company owns  chicken  cold
storage facilities with a capacity of approximately 142 million pounds.

     The  Company's  swine  operations consist of 176 swine  farrowing  and
nursery units and 554 swine finishing units. These swine growout operations
are supported by 3 dedicated feed mills supplemented by the production from
the  chicken  operations' feed mills. In addition, the Company  operates  a
grain  drying  and 2 storage facilities in support of its swine  feed  mill
operations.

      The  Company's  other  operations  consist  of  8  processing  plants
supported by 5 additional freezer storage facilities.  Additionally,  other
operations  include  12 rendering plants with the capacity  to  produce  28
million  pounds of animal protein products per week supported by 3  freezer
facilities.  The Company also has 18 ground pet food processing  operations
in connection with chicken processing plants capable of producing 8 million
pounds of product per week, as well as 2 blending mill operations.






      The  Company  owns its major operating facilities with the  following
exceptions:  2 chicken primary processing plants are leased until  2003,  1
chicken emulsified plant is leased month to month, 1 distribution center is
leased  until  2003 and 1 distribution center is leased  year  to  year,  2
feedmills  and 2 hatcheries are leased until 2003, 386 breeder farm  houses
are leased under agreements expiring at various dates through 2003 and four
breeder  farm  houses  are leased month to month, 82  swine  farrowing  and
nursery  units and 269 swine finishing units are leased under  one  to  ten
year renewable lease agreements, with the majority expiring in 2002.

       Management  believes  that  the  Company's  present  facilities  are
generally  adequate and suitable for its current purposes. In general,  the
Company's facilities are fully utilized. However, seasonal fluctuations  in
inventories  and production may occur as a reaction to market  demands  for
certain products.  The Company regularly engages in construction and  other
capital  improvement projects intended to expand capacity and  improve  the
efficiency of its processing and support facilities.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     On June 22, 1999, 11 current and former employees of the Company filed
the  case  of M.H. Fox, et al. v. Tyson Foods, Inc. (Fox v. Tyson)  in  the
U.S.  District  Court  for the Northern District of  Alabama  claiming  the
Company  violated requirements of the Fair Labor Standards  Act.  The  suit
alleges  the  Company failed to pay employees for all hours  worked  and/or
improperly  paid them for overtime hours.  The suit generally alleges  that
(i)  employees should be paid for time taken to put on and take off certain
working  supplies at the beginning and end of their shifts and  breaks  and
(ii) the use of "mastercard" or "line" time fails to pay employees for  all
time  actually  worked.  Plaintiffs seek to represent  themselves  and  all
similarly  situated current and former employees of the Company. At  filing
159  current and/or former employees consented to join the lawsuit and,  to
date,  approximately  4,900  consents  have  been  filed  with  the  court.
Discovery in this case is ongoing.  A hearing was held on March 6, 2000, to
consider  the  plaintiff's request for collective action certification  and
court-supervised  notice.   No  decision  has  been  rendered.  The Company
believes  it  has substantial defenses to the claims made  and  intends  to
vigorously defend the case;  however, neither the likelihood of unfavorable
outcome nor the amount of ultimate liability, if any, with respect to  this
case can be determined at this time.

     Substantially  similar suits have been filed against other  integrated
poultry   companies.   In  addition,  organizing  activity   conducted   by
representatives  or  affiliates of the United Food and  Commercial  Workers
Union  against the poultry industry has encouraged worker participation  in
Fox v Tyson and the other lawsuits.

     On February 9, 2000, the Wage and Hour Division of the U.S. Department
of  Labor  (DOL) began an industry-wide investigation of poultry producers,
including the Company, to ascertain compliance with various wage  and  hour
issues.   As  part  of  this investigation, the DOL  inspected  14  of  the
Company's   processing  facilities.   The  Company  has  begun  preliminary
discussions  with  the  DOL  regarding  its  investigation  to  discuss   a
resolution of potential claims that might be asserted by the DOL.





     The  Company  has been advised of an investigation by the  Immigration
and  Naturalization Service (INS) and the U.S. Attorney's  Office  for  the
Eastern  District of Tennessee into possible violations of the  Immigration
and  Naturalization Act at several of the Company's locations.  On  October
5,  2000,  the  Company was advised that, in addition to a  number  of  its
employees,  the  Company  itself is a subject of  the  investigation.   The
outcome of the investigation and any potential liability on the part of the
Company cannot be determined at this time.

     On   January  20,  2000,  McCarty  Farms,  Inc.  (McCarty),  a  former
subsidiary  of  the  Company which has been merged into  the  Company,  was
indicted  in  the  U.S.  District  Court  for  the  Southern  District   of
Mississippi, Jackson Division, for conspiracy to violate the federal  Clean
Water Act.  The alleged conspiracy arose out of McCarty's partial ownership
of Central Industries, Inc.  (Central), which operates a rendering plant in
Forest,  Miss.  On November 3, 2000, Central pled to 25 counts  of  knowing
violations  of  the  Act and one count of conspiracy  pursuant  to  a  plea
agreement,  which  resulted in a $14 million fine against  Central  payable
over  five  years.   The conspiracy indictment against  McCarty  and  other
Central  shareholders  was dismissed.  A related civil  proceeding  by  the
United   States  arising  from  the  same  circumstances,   and   a   state
environmental  administrative  complaint  were  also  fully  resolved   and
dismissed as a part of Central's Plea Agreement.

     The  Company's Sedalia, Mo., facility is currently under investigation
by  the  U.S.  Attorney's office of the Western District  of  Missouri  for
possible  violations  of  environmental laws or regulations.   Neither  the
likelihood  of an unfavorable outcome nor the amount of ultimate liability,
if any, with respect to this investigation can be determined at this time.

     On  October  17,  2000, a Washington County (Arkansas) Chancery  Court
jury  awarded the Company approximately $20 million in its lawsuit  against
ConAgra,  Inc.  and  ConAgra Poultry Company.  In  its  suit,  the  Company
alleged  that  ConAgra,  Inc.  and ConAgra  Poultry  Company  violated  the
Arkansas  Trade  Secrets Act when they improperly obtained and  implemented
Tyson's  confidential feed nutrient profile.  On December  4,  2000,  as  a
result  of  an  Arkansas  Supreme Court opinion issued  subsequent  to  the
Chancery  Court's  October  ruling, the Chancery  Court  reversed  the  $20
million judgement and dismissed the case with prejudice.  The Company plans
to appeal the Chancery Court's decision.

     Additionally, the Company is involved in various lawsuits  and  claims
made  by  third  parties on an ongoing basis as a result of its  day-to-day
operations.  Although the outcome of such items cannot be  determined  with
certainty, the Company's general counsel and management are of the  opinion
that  the  final outcome should not have a material effect on the Company's
results of operations or financial position.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.








Executive Officers of the Company

Officers  of  the  Company serve one year terms  from  the  date  of  their
election, or until their successors are appointed and qualified. The  name,
title,  age  and  year  of  initial election to  executive  office  of  the
Company's executive officers are listed below:
                                                                       Year
Name                     Title                                  Age   Elected
- ----                     -----                                  ---   -------
Don Tyson                Senior Chairman of the                 70    1963
                         Board of Directors

John H. Tyson            Chairman of the Board of Directors,    47    1984
                         President and Chief Executive Officer

Greg Lee                 Chief Operating Officer                53    1993

Mike Baker               President, Production Services         45    1999

Wayne Butler             President, Prepared Foods Group        46    1999

Greg Huett               President, International Group         39    2000

William W. Lovette       President, Food Service Group          40    1999

Les Baledge              Executive Vice President and           43    1999
                         General Counsel

John D. Copeland         Executive Vice President,              50    1999
                         Ethics and
                         Environmental Compliance

Steven Hankins           Executive Vice President and           42    1997
                         Chief Financial Officer

Carl G. Johnson          Executive Vice President,              47    1999
                         Administrative Services

John S. Lea              Executive Vice President and           47    1999
                         Chief Marketing Officer

Donnie Smith             Executive Vice President,              41    1999
                         Supply Chain Management

Dennis Leatherby         Senior Vice President,                 40    1990
                         Finance and Treasurer

David L. Van Bebber      Senior Vice President,                 44    1990
                         Legal Services

Rodney S. Pless          Vice President, Controller and         39    2000
                         Chief Accounting Officer

R. Read Hudson           Secretary and Corporate Counsel        42    1998

Louis C. Gottsponer, Jr. Assistant Secretary and                36    1998
                         Director of Investor Relations


John  H. Tyson is the son of Don Tyson. No other family relationships exist
among  the  above officers. Mr. Don Tyson was appointed Senior Chairman  of
the  Board  of Directors in 1995. Mr. John H. Tyson was appointed President
and  Chief Executive Officer in 2000 and Chairman of the Board of Directors
in 1998 after serving as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1997
and  President,  Beef and Pork Division since 1993. Mr. Lee  was  appointed
Chief  Operating  Officer  in  1999  after  serving  as  President  of  the
Foodservice Group since 1998 and Executive Vice President, Sales, Marketing
and  Technical  Services  since 1995. Mr. Baker  was  appointed  President,
Production Services in 1999 after serving as Division Vice President  since
1995.  Mr.  Butler was appointed President, Prepared Foods  Group  in  1998
after serving as President, Mexican Original since 1997 and Complex Manager
since 1994. Mr. Huett was appointed President, International Group in  2000
after  serving  as Senior Vice President and General Manager,  Club  Stores
since 1999, Vice President, Sales and Marketing, Wholesale Clubs since 1996
and  Director,  General Mexico Business Unit since 1994.  Mr.  Lovette  was
appointed President, Food Service Group in 2000 after serving as President,
International Group since 1999 and Vice President, Operations  since  1995.
Mr.  Baledge was appointed Executive Vice President and General Counsel  in
2000  after  serving  as  Executive Vice President  and  Associate  General
Counsel  since 1999 upon joining Tyson. Prior to joining Tyson, Mr. Baledge
was  of  counsel to the law firm of Kutak Rock LLP and a partner  with  the
Rose  Law Firm. Mr. Copeland was appointed Executive Vice President, Ethics
and Environmental Compliance in 1999 after serving as Director of Corporate
Ethics and Compliance since 1998.  Mr. Hankins was appointed Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer in 1998 after serving as Senior  Vice
President,  Financial  Planning and Shared Services  since  1997  and  Vice
President,  Management  Information Systems since  1993.  Mr.  Johnson  was
appointed  Executive Vice President, Administrative Services in 1999  after
serving as Vice President, Assets and Risk Management since 1994.  Mr.  Lea
was  appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer in 1999
after  serving  as Vice President, Retail Sales and Marketing  since  1995.
Mr.  Smith  was appointed Executive Vice President, Supply Chain Management
in  1999  after  serving  as Vice President, Purchasing  since  1995.   Mr.
Leatherby  was  appointed Senior Vice President, Finance and  Treasurer  in
1998 after serving as Vice President and Treasurer since 1997 and Treasurer
since  1994.  Mr.  Van  Bebber was appointed Senior Vice  President,  Legal
Services  in  2000  after serving as Vice President and Director  of  Legal
Services  since  1998 and Assistant Secretary since 1990.   Mr.  Pless  was
appointed Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer  in  2000
upon  joining Tyson. Prior to joining Tyson, Mr. Pless was Vice  President,
Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for TransMontaigne. Mr. Hudson  was
appointed  Secretary  and  Corporate  Counsel  in  1998  after  serving  as
Corporate  Counsel  since  1992.  Mr. Gottsponer  was  appointed  Assistant
Secretary  and  Director of Investor Relations in  1998  after  serving  as
Corporate Finance Manager since 1996 and Cash Manager since 1993.













                                  PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

      The  Company  currently  has issued and outstanding  two  classes  of
capital  stock,  Class A Common Stock (the "Class A  Stock")  and  Class  B
Common Stock (the "Class B Stock"). Information regarding the voting rights
and  dividend  restrictions are set forth on page 34 of the  Annual  Report
under the caption "Capital Stock," which information is incorporated herein
by reference.

      On  September  30, 2000, there were approximately 36,079  holders  of
record  of  the  Company's Class A Stock and 17 holders of  record  of  the
Company's  Class  B  Stock,  excluding holders  in  the  security  position
listings  held  by nominees. The Class A Stock is traded on  the  New  York
Stock  Exchange under the symbol "TSN." No public trading market  currently
exists  for  the  Class B Stock. Information regarding  the  high  and  low
closing prices of the Class A Stock is set forth on pages 48 and 51 of  the
Annual  Report  under  the  captions "Eleven-Year  Financial  Summary"  and
"Closing   Price   of  Company's  Common  Stock,"  which   information   is
incorporated herein by reference.

      The  Company has paid uninterrupted quarterly dividends on its common
stock each year since 1977.  The annual dividend rate for Class A Stock  is
$0.16  per  share and the annual dividend rate for Class B Stock is  $0.144
per share.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     See the information reflected under the caption "Eleven-Year Financial
Summary" on page 48 of the Annual Report, which information is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     See  the  information  reflected  under  the  caption  "Management's
Discussion and Analysis" on pages 20 through 28 of the Annual Report, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISKS

     See the information reflected under the caption "Market Risk" on pages
25  through  27  of  the Annual Report, which information  is  incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     See the information on pages 29 through 45 and 47 of the Annual Report
under  the  caption  "Consolidated  Statements  of  Income,"  "Consolidated
Balance   Sheets,"  "Consolidated  Statements  of  Shareholders'   Equity,"
"Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows," "Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements"  and  "Report of Independent Auditors,"  which  information  is
incorporated  herein  by reference. Other financial  information  is  filed
under Item 14 of Part IV of this report.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.

                                 PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      See  information set forth under the captions "Election of Directors"
and  "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting" in the Proxy Statement,
which information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      Pursuant  to general instruction G(3) of the instructions  to  Annual
Report on Form 10-K, certain information concerning the Company's executive
officers  is included under the caption "Executive Officers of the Company"
in  Part I of this Report. See the information set forth under the captions
"Executive  Compensation and Other Information" and "Report of Compensation
Committee" in the Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

       See   the   information  included  under  the  captions   "Principal
Shareholders"  and  "Security  Ownership  of  Management"  in   the   Proxy
Statement, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      See the information included under the caption "Certain Transactions"
in  the  Proxy  Statement,  which information  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

























                                  PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)    The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

            1.  The following consolidated financial statements of the
                registrant included on pages 29 through 45 in the
                Company's Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
                September 30, 2000, and the Report of Independent
                Auditors, on page 47 of such Annual Report are
                incorporated herein by reference. Page references
                set forth in the index below are to page numbers in
                Exhibit 13 of this Form 10-K.
                                                                     Pages
                                                                     -----
       Consolidated Statements of Income
       for the three years ended September 30, 2000                   58

       Consolidated Balance Sheets at
       September 30, 2000 and October 2, 1999                         59

       Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
       for the three years ended September 30, 2000                60-61

       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
       for the three years ended September 30, 2000                   62

       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                  63-78

       Report of Independent Auditors                                 80

           2.   The following additional information for the years 2000,
                1999 and 1998 is submitted herewith.  Page references are
                to the consecutively numbered pages of this Report on
                Form 10-K:
                                                                     Pages
                                                                     -----
       Report of Independent Auditors                                  28

       Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying                            29
       Accounts for the three years ended
       September 30, 2000

       All other schedules are omitted because they are neither applicable
       nor required.

           3.   The exhibits filed with this report are listed in the
                Exhibit Index at the end of this Item 14.

           4.   The Company did not file any current reports on Form 8-K
                during the quarter ended September 30, 2000.







                               EXHIBIT INDEX

      The following exhibits are filed with this report or are incorporated
by  reference  to previously filed material.  Page references  are  to  the
cover page preceding each attached Exhibit.

Exhibit No.                                                           Pages
- -----------                                                           -----
3.1        Restated  Certificate of Incorporation of the  Company
           (previously  filed  as Exhibit 3.1  to  the  Company's
           Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year  ended
           October  3,  1998,  Commission File  No.  0-3400,  and
           incorporated herein by reference).

3.2        Second  Amended  and Restated Bylaws  of  the  Company
           (previously  filed  as Exhibit 3.2  to  the  Company's
           Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  period  ended
           January  1,  2000,  Commission File  No.  0-3400,  and
           incorporated herein by reference).

4.1        Form  of  Indenture between the Company and The  Chase
           Manhattan  Bank,  N.A.,  as Trustee  relating  to  the
           issuance  of  Debt  Securities  (previously  filed  as
           Exhibit 4 to Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement
           on Form S-3, filed with the Commission on May 8, 1995,
           Registration No. 33-58177, and incorporated herein  by
           reference).

4.2        Form  of  6.75%  $150 million Note due  June  1,  2005
           (previously  filed as Exhibit 4(b)  to  the  Company's
           Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  period  ended
           July   1,  1995,  Commission  File  No.  0-3400,   and
           incorporated herein by reference).

4.3        Form  of Fixed Rate Medium-Term Note (previously filed
           as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form
           8-K,  filed  with  the Commission on  July  20,  1995,
           Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by
           reference).

4.4        Form  of  Floating  Rate Medium-Term Note  (previously
           filed  as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Current  Report
           on   Form   8-K,   filed  with   the   Commission   on
           July  20,  1995,  Commission  File  No.  0-3400,   and
           incorporated herein by reference).

4.5        Form  of Calculation Agent Agreement (previously filed
           as Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Current Report on Form
           8-K,  filed  with  the Commission on  July  20,  1995,
           Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by
           reference).








4.6        Amended  and  Restated Note Purchase Agreement,  dated
           June  30, 1993, by and between the Company and various
           Purchasers   as  listed  in  the  Purchaser   Schedule
           attached   to  said  agreement,  together   with   the
           following documents:

                      (a) Form of Series A Note

                      (b) Form of Series D Note

           (previously  filed as Exhibit 4(a)  to  the  Company's
           Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  period  ended
           July   3,  1993,  Commission  File  No.  0-3400,   and
           incorporated herein by reference).

4.7        Amendment  Agreement,  dated  November  1,  1994,   to
           Amended  and Restated Note Purchase Agreements,  dated
           June  30, 1993, by and between the Company and various
           Purchasers   as  listed  in  the  Purchaser   Schedule
           attached  to  said  agreement  (previously  filed   as
           Exhibit  10(a)  to the Company's Quarterly  Report  on
           Form  10-Q  for  the period ended December  31,  1994,
           Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by
           reference).

4.8        Second Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 29, 1996,
           to  Amended  and  Restated Note  Purchase  Agreements,
           dated  June  30, 1993, by and between the Company  and
           various Purchasers as listed in the Purchaser Schedule
           attached  to  said  agreement  (previously  filed   as
           Exhibit 4.8 to the Company's Annual Report on Form  10-
           K  for  the  fiscal  year ended  September  28,  1996,
           Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by
           reference).

4.9        Amended    and   Restated   Note   Agreement,    dated
           June  30, 1993, by and between the Company and various
           Purchasers   as  listed  in  the  Purchaser   Schedule
           attached   to  said  agreement,  together   with   the
           following related documents:

                      (a) Form of Series E Note

                      (b) Form of Series F Note

                      (c) Form of Series G Note

           (previously  filed as Exhibit 4(b)  to  the  Company's
           Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  period  ended
           July   3,  1993,  Commission  File  No.  0-3400,   and
           incorporated herein by reference).








4.10       Amendment  Agreement,  dated  November  1,  1994,   to
           Amended    and   Restated   Note   Agreement,    dated
           June  30, 1993, by and between the Company and various
           Purchasers   as  listed  in  the  Purchaser   Schedule
           attached  to  said  agreement  (previously  filed   as
           Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's Quarterly Report on
           Form  10-Q  for  the period ended December  31,  1994,
           Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by
           reference).

4.11       Second Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 29, 1996,
           to   Amended   and  Restated  Note  Agreement,   dated
           June  30,  1993,  by  and  between  the  Company   and
           Purchasers   as  listed  in  the  Purchaser   Schedule
           attached  to  said  agreement  (previously  filed   as
           Exhibit 4.11  to  the Company's Annual  Report on Form
           10-K  for  the fiscal year ended September  28,  1996,
           Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by
           reference).

4.12       Form  of  7.0%  $200  million Note  due  May  1,  2018
           (previously  filed  as Exhibit 4.1  to  the  Company's
           Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
           March  28,  1998,  Commission  File  No.  0-3400,  and
           incorporated herein by reference).

4.13       Form  of  7.0%  $40  million  Note  due  May  1,  2018
           (previously  filed  as Exhibit 4.2  to  the  Company's
           Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  period  ended
           March  28,  1998,  Commission  File  No.  0-3400,  and
           incorporated herein by reference).

10.1       Fourth   Amended   and  Restated   Credit   Agreement,
           including   all   exhibits  thereto,   dated   as   of
           May  26,  1995, by and among the Company, as Borrower,
           The   Chase   Manhattan  Bank  N.A.,  Chemical   Bank,
           Cooperative  Centrale  Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank  B.A.
           (Rabobank Nederland), Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of
           New  York, National Westminister Bank Plc, Nationsbank
           of  Texas,  N.A., and Societe Generale, as  Co-Agents,
           and   Bank  of  America  National  Trust  and  Savings
           Association,  as  Agent (previously filed  as  Exhibit
           4(f)  to  the Company's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q
           for  the  period  ended July 1, 1995, Commission  File
           No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by reference).














10.2       Amendment No. 1 to Fourth Amended and Restated  Credit
           Agreement, dated as of May 24, 1996, by and among  the
           Company,  as  Borrower, the banks party  thereto,  The
           Chase Manhatten Bank, N.A., Chemical Bank, Cooperative
           Centrale   Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank  B.A.   (Rabobank
           Nederland), Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
           National Westminister Bank Plc, Nationsbank of  Texas,
           N.A.,  and Societe Generale as Co-Agents and  Bank  of
           America  National  Trust and Savings  Association,  as
           Agent  (previously  filed  as  Exhibit  4(b)  to   the
           Company's   Form   10-Q   for   the   quarter    ended
           June  29,  1996,  Commission  File  No.  0-3400,   and
           incorporated herein by reference).

10.3       Amendment No. 2 to Fourth Amended and Restated  Credit
           Agreement, dated as of May 23, 1997, by and among  the
           Company,  as  Borrower, the banks party  thereto,  The
           Chase Manhatten Bank, N.A., Chemical Bank, Cooperative
           Centrale   Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank  B.A.   (Rabobank
           Nederland), Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
           National Westminister Bank Plc, Nationsbank of  Texas,
           N.A.,  and Societe Generale as Co-Agents and  Bank  of
           America  National  Trust and Savings  Association,  as
           Agent  (previously  filed  as  Exhibit  4(b)  to   the
           Company's   Form   10-Q   for   the   quarter    ended
           June  28,  1997,  Commission  File  No.  0-3400,   and
           incorporated herein by reference).

10.4       Issuing  and  Paying Agency Agreement  dated  July  1,
           1993,  between  the Company and Morgan Guaranty  Trust
           Company  of  New  York, (previously filed  as  Exhibit
           10(d)  to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q
           for the period ended July 3, 1993, Commission File No.
           0-3400, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.5       Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated July 1,  1993,
           between  the Company and Merrill Lynch Money  Markets,
           Inc.  (previously  filed  as  Exhibit  10(e)  to   the
           Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period
           ended  July  3, 1993, Commission File No. 0-3400,  and
           incorporated herein by reference).

10.6       Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated July 1,  1993,
           between  the  Company and the First Boston Corporation
           (previously  filed as Exhibit 10(g) to  the  Company's
           Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  period  ended
           July   3,  1993,  Commission  File  No.  0-3400,   and
           incorporated herein by reference).

10.7       Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated July 1,  1993,
           between  the Company and J.P. Morgan Securities,  Inc.
           (previously  filed as Exhibit 10(h) to  the  Company's
           Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the  period  ended
           July   3,  1993,  Commission  File  No.  0-3400,   and
           incorporated herein by reference).




10.8       Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement dated July 1,  1993,
           between the Company and Bank of America National Trust
           and  Savings Association (previously filed as  Exhibit
           10(i)  to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form  10-Q
           for  the  period  ended July 3, 1993, Commission  File
           No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.9       Commercial     Paper    Dealer     Agreement     dated
           September  1,  1994,  between the  Company  and  Chase
           Securities, Inc. (previously filed as Exhibit 10(j) to
           the  Company's  Annual Report on  Form  10-K  for  the
           fiscal  year  ended October 1, 1994,  Commission  File
           No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.10      Tyson  Foods, Inc. Senior Executive Performance  Bonus
           Plan  adopted November 18, 1994 (previously  filed  as
           Exhibit  10(k)  to  the  Company's  Annual  Report  on
           Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended October 1,  1994,
           Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by
           reference).

10.11      Tyson   Foods,  Inc.  Restricted  Stock  Bonus   Plan,
           effective August 21, 1989, as amended and restated  on
           April  15,  1994;  and Amendment to  Restricted  Stock
           Bonus  Plan  effective November 18,  1994  (previously
           filed  as Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's Annual Report
           on    Form   10-K    for   the   fiscal   year   ended
           October  1,  1994,  Commission File  No.  0-3400,  and
           incorporated herein by reference).

10.12      Tyson  Foods, Inc. Amended and Restated Employee Stock
           Purchase   Plan,  dated  as  of  December   13,   1999
           (previously  filed as Exhibit 10.12 to  the  Company's
           Form  10-K for the fiscal year ended October 2,  1999,
           Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by
           reference).

10.13      Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated
           August  1,  1997, between the Company and  Don  Tyson,
           Senior  Chairman  of  the Board of  Directors  of  the
           Company  (previously  filed as Exhibit  10.21  to  the
           Company's   Form  10-K  for  the  fiscal  year   ended
           September  27, 1997, Commission File No.  0-3400,  and
           incorporated herein by reference).

10.14      Amended and Restated Retirement Savings Plan of  Tyson
           Foods,  Inc.,  qualified under Section 401(k)  of  the
           Internal  Revenue Code of 1986, dated as  of  December
           13,  1999, (previously filed as Exhibit 10.14  to  the
           Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  October
           2,  1999, Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated
           herein by reference).







10.15      Amended and Restated Executive Savings Plan of Tyson
           Foods, Inc. effective October 1, 1997, and First
           Amendment to the Amended and Restated Executive
           Savings Plan of Tyson Foods, Inc. effective December
           31, 1998 (previously filed as exhibit 10.15 to the
           Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October
           2, 1999, Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated
           herein by reference).

10.16      Tyson  Foods, Inc. Non-statutory Stock Option Plan  of
           1982,  as  amended and restated on November 18,  1994,
           (previously  filed  as Exhibit  99  to  the  Company's
           Registration  Statement of Form  S-8  filed  with  the
           Commission on January 30, 1995, Commission File No. 33-
           54716, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.17      Form  of Indemnity Agreement between Tyson Foods, Inc.
           and   its  directors  and  certain  of  its  executive
           officers  (previously filed as Exhibit  10(t)  to  the
           Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  fiscal
           year ended September 30, 1995, Commission File No.   0-
           3400, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.18      Senior Executive Employment Agreement dated April 12,
           2000 between the Company and Wayne Britt (previously
           filed as Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly Report
           on Form 10-Q for the period ended April 1, 2000,
           Commission File No. 0-3400, and incorporated herein by
           reference).

10.19      Tyson Foods, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan dated
           August 11, 2000.                                          30-45

13         Pages 20 through 52 of the Annual Report to
           Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
           September 30, 2000.                                       46-90

21         Subsidiaries of the Company.                              91-92

23         Consent of Independent Auditors.                             93

27         Financial Data Schedule.

















                                SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                             TYSON FOODS, INC.

                           By /s/ Steven Hankins      December 8, 2000
                              -------------------
                              Steven Hankins
                              Executive Vice President
                                and Chief Financial Officer














































     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act  of  1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

/s/ Barbara Allen                Director                December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Barbara Allen

/s/ Neely Cassady                Director                December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Neely Cassady

/s/ Lloyd V. Hackley             Director                December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Lloyd V. Hackley

/s/ Steven Hankins      Executive Vice President and     December 8, 2000
- ---------------------       Chief Financial Officer
Steven Hankins

/s/ Gerald Johnston              Director                December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Gerald Johnston

/s/ David Jones                  Director                December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
David Jones

/s/ Jim Kever                    Director                December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Jim Kever

/s/ Shelby D. Massey             Director                December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Shelby D. Massey

/s/ Rodney S. Pless      Vice President, Controller and  December 8, 2000
- ---------------------        Chief Accounting Officer
Rodney S. Pless

/s/ Joe F. Starr                 Director                December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Joe F. Starr

/s/ Leland E. Tollett            Director                December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Leland E. Tollett

/s/ Barbara Tyson        Vice President and Director     December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Barbara Tyson

/s/ Don Tyson              Senior Chairman of the        December 8, 2000
- ---------------------         Board of Directors
Don Tyson





/s/ John H. Tyson              Chairman of the           December 8, 2000
- ---------------------          Board of Directors,
John H. Tyson                   President and
                            Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Fred S. Vorsanger             Director               December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Fred S. Vorsanger

/s/ Donald E. Wray                Director               December 8, 2000
- ---------------------
Donald E. Wray














































                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We  have audited the consolidated financial statements of Tyson Foods, Inc.
as  of  September 30, 2000 and October 2, 1999,  and for each of the  three
years  in  the period ended September 30, 2000, and have issued our  report
thereon  dated  November 13, 2000. Our audits also included  the  financial
statement schedule listed in Item 14(a) in this annual report (Form  10-K).
This  schedule  is  the  responsibility of the  Company's  management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits.

In  our  opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above,  when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a  whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.



 Little Rock, Arkansas                        /s/ERNST & YOUNG LLP
 November 13, 2000                            --------------------
                                                 ERNST & YOUNG LLP



















































                     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
















































                             TYSON FOODS, INC.
                                SCHEDULE II
                    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                  Three Years Ended September 30, 2000

                           (Dollars in Millions)

                  Balance at  Charged to  Charged                  Balance
                  Beginning   Costs and   to Other   Additions     at End
Description       of Period    Expenses   Accounts (Deductions)   of Period
- -----------       ----------  ---------   --------  -----------   ---------


Allowance for
  Doubtful Accounts

2000                $22          $25(1)       0       $(30)(1)      $17

1999                $85          $16(2)       0       $(79)(3)      $22

1998                 $4           $2          0        $79 (4)      $85




(1)  Includes $24 million reserve related to the January 31, 2000,
     bankruptcy filing by AmeriServe Food Distribution, Inc.
(2)  Includes $12 million reserve for international operations.
(3)  Write off of receivables against reserve related to 1998 allowance.
(4)  Includes $48 million reserve for international currency devaluation.






























