Item 1A.Risk Factors.

Risk Factors; Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking Statements

The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect “forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that we may from time to time make, including forward-looking statements contained in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K and in Teledyne's 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders. It is not possible for management to predict all such factors, and new factors may emerge. Additionally, management cannot assess the impact of each such factor on Teledyne or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.



A new global recession, continued economic uncertainty in Europe or an economic downturn in China may adversely affect us.

If another global recession emerges, if economic uncertainty in Europe continues or worsens, or if economic growth in China substantially slows, we may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows from reduced orders, payment









delays, collection difficulties, increased price pressures for our products, increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories or other factors caused by the economic problems of customers. If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers' access to credit or render them insolvent, orders for our products may decrease, which would result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products, or otherwise in operating their businesses or remaining solvent, they may become unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These events could adversely impact our ability to manufacture affected products and could also result in reductions in our revenue, increased price competition, and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in the energy exploration and production markets, domestic and international commercial aerospace markets, the semiconductor industry, consumer electronics and the automotive industry, each of which has been cyclical and suffered from fluctuating market demands. A cyclical downturn in these markets may materially affect future operating results.

In addition, we sell products and services to customers in industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic activity and consumer spending habits and in more mature industries that are sensitive to capacity. Adverse economic conditions affecting these industries may reduce demand for our products and services, which may reduce our revenues, profits or production levels. Some of our businesses serve industries such as power generation and petrochemical refining, which may be negatively impacted by reductions in global capital expenditures and manufacturing capacity.

Our dependence on revenue from government contracts subjects us to many risks:

Our revenue from government contracts depends on the continued availability of funding from the U.S. Government, and, accordingly, we have the risk that funding for our existing contracts may be canceled or diverted to other uses or delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government prime contractors. Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under contracts with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately32%of our total revenue in 2012, as compared with36%in 2011 and44%in 2010. Performance under government contracts has inherent risks that could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.

Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations and the failure of Congress to appropriate funds for programs in which we participate could negatively affect our results of operations. The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis could delay procurement of our services and products and cause us to lose future revenues. The U.S. Government's inability to complete its budget process, or to fund government operations pursuant to a continuing resolution, may result in a U.S. Government shutdown which could result in a material loss of revenues for us.  U.S. defense spending is expected to decline in some areas over the next few years. A continued emphasis on Federal deficit and debt reduction could lead to a decrease in overall defense spending. The continued war on terrorism and a winding down of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars also could result in a diversion of funds from programs in which Teledyne participates. Budgetary concerns could result in future contracts being awarded more on price than on other competitive factors, and smaller defense budgets could result in more intense competition on programs, which could result in lower revenues and profits.









The sequestration provision of the Budget Control Act of 2011 would impose $500 billion of defense cuts over nine years starting in fiscal year 2013, which represents approximately 9 percent of planned defense funding over the period. If sequestration is triggered, the fiscal year 2013 defense budget could be lowered by as much as $40 to $50 billion, or approximately 9 percent. How these reductions would be implemented has not been defined. Congress recently extended the deadline for resolving sequestration to March 1, 2013.  We are unable to predict the impact that sequestration or other defense spending cuts would have on funding for defense programs in which we participate; however, the reductions could have a material adverse impact on our business if they are implemented.  In addition, uncertainty related to ongoing fiscal debates in Congress and the threat of sequestration, if it continues to be unresolved, could result in our government and defense contractor customers delaying orders or payments or reducing spending on programs in which we participate.

Our participation in government programs may decrease or be subject to renegotiation as those programs evolve over time.

The U.S. Government has been placing emphasis on small business quotas and increasing small business contract set asides and minimum work percentages. In some cases, prime contractors are required to reduce participation by large subcontractors like Teledyne in order to fill small business quotas and be responsive to proposals and bids. As a result, our Engineered Systems segment could be significantly impacted.

Over time, and for a variety of reasons, programs can evolve and affect the extent of our participation. For example, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc.'s Ground-based Midcourse Defense program was negatively impacted by both the nominal end date of development activity and the change in focus of the current Administration relative to missile defense.

We have been a significant participant in NASA programs, primarily through our Engineered Systems segment and through Teledyne Scientific Company. The current Administration introduced significant changes to the national space policy, including the cancellation of the NASA's Constellation Program which includes Ares launch vehicles. The Administration plans to utilize commercial launch vehicles for crew and cargo ISS expeditions, and develop a NASA heavy lift launch vehicle for space exploration. As a result of these changes, we have been attempting to transition our business to meet the needs of the new policy and programs, with the further understanding that the existing international space station will continue to be fully functional and supported and that the U.S. will continue investment in human space flight. Failure to transition our business successfully could result in reduced sales. In addition, delayed funding and lack of clear focus and support for NASA's new space policy could negatively impact our business.

Our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to termination rights that could adversely affect us.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the U.S. Government either at its convenience or upon the default of the contractor. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for the recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to termination. Termination for default clauses impose liability on the contractor for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in reprocuring undelivered items from another source. We had six U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience in 2012, compared with seven in 2011 and two in 2010.  No contracts were terminated for default during such three-year period.

We may lose money or generate less than expected profits on our fixed-price government contracts and we may lose money if we fail to meet certain pre-specified targets in government contracts.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts are fixed-price type contracts (59%of our total U.S. Government contracts were fixed-price in 2012,60%in 2011 and54%in 2010). Under these types of contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may









exceed the fixed contract price. Under such contracts, we must absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these contracts. We cannot assure that our contract loss provisions in our financial statements will be adequate to cover all actual future losses. We may lose money on some contracts if we fail to meet these estimates.

Our business is subject to government contracting regulations and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our operating results and prospects.

We, like other government contractors, are subject to various audits, reviews and investigations (including private party “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance with federal and state laws. More routinely, the U.S. Government may audit the costs we incur on our U.S. Government contracts, including allocated indirect costs.  Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs.  Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed would need to be refunded.   We have recorded contract revenues based upon costs we expect to realize on final audit.  In a worst case scenario, should a business or division involved be charged with wrongdoing, or should the U.S. Government determine that the business or division is not a “presently responsible contractor,” that business or division, and conceivably our Company as a whole, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be debarred for up to three years from receiving new government contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts defending against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such charges were proven or were to result in negotiated settlements.

United States and global responses to terrorism, the end of the war in Iraq and the winding down of war in Afghanistan, continuing turmoil in Middle Eastern countries, Mexican border town violence, concerns regarding nuclear proliferation and the safety of nuclear energy, potential epidemics, financial issues facing airlines and volatile energy prices increase uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may adversely affect our business and results of operations.

United States' and global responses to terrorism, the end of war in Iraq and the winding down of war in Afghanistan, continuing turmoil in Middle Eastern countries, Mexican border town violence and nuclear proliferation concerns increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets and could adversely affect our business and operations.

Air travel declines have occurred after terrorist attacks and heightened security alerts, as well as after the H1N1 virus, SARS and bird flu scares.  While travel by our sales and service personnel to various regions have been affected by such factors, additional declines in air travel resulting from such factors and other factors could adversely affect the financial condition of many of our commercial airline and aircraft manufacturer customers and, in turn, could adversely affect our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. In addition, a prolonged virus epidemic or pandemic, or the threat thereof, could result in worker absences, lower productivity, voluntary closure of our offices and manufacturing facilities, disruptions in our supply chain, travel restrictions on our employees, and other disruptions to our businesses. Moreover, health epidemics may force local health and government authorities to mandate the temporary closure of our offices and manufacturing facilities.

Deterioration of financial performance of airlines could result in a reduction of discretionary spending for upgrades of avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would adversely affect our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment.

Higher oil prices could adversely affect commercial airline-related customers of our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. Conversely, lower oil prices could decrease oil exploration and petrochemical refining activities and hinder our marine and other instrumentation businesses. In addition, instability in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions could adversely affect expansion plans of the oil and gas industry customers of our instrumentation and cable solutions businesses.

The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear incident in 2011 created uncertainty for our U.S. nuclear market customers for new nuclear power plant construction. This uncertainty could have an impact on investments in the nuclear market, including investments associated with building enriched uranium plants, which could have an adverse impact on our Engineered Systems segment.

Acquisitions involve inherent risks that may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.

Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as:

•our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, internal controls, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates;

•the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business;

•our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve identified financial, operating and other synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition;

•our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls of acquired businesses in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;









•the distraction of management resulting from the need to integrate acquired businesses;

•increased competition for acquisition targets, which may increase acquisition costs;

•the risks associated with acquiring privately-held companies, which generally do not have as formal or comprehensive internal controls and compliance systems in place as public companies;

•production delays associated with consolidating acquired facilities and manufacturing operations;

•risks associated with owning and operating businesses internationally, including those arising from U.S. and foreign government policy changes or actions and exchange rate fluctuations; and

•unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business.



While we conduct financial and other due diligence in connection with our acquisitions and generally seek some form of protection, including indemnification from a seller and sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition. Further, indemnities or escrows may not fully cover such matters, particularly matters identified after a closing.

As they have over the last few years, acquisitions may also change the nature and level of various risks faced by Teledyne.  For example, the DALSA acquisition in 2011 and again the LeCroy acquisition in 2012 increased the percentage of sales attributable to commercial customers as opposed to the U.S. Government.  These acquisitions, coupled with our acquisitions of additional Canada-based companies (Optech and VariSystems), also increased the percentage of revenues and expenses that arise from international sources and our consequently our exposure to U.S. and foreign policy changes and exchange rate fluctuations.  Additionally, both DALSA's and LeCroy's businesses have been more capital intensive than other Teledyne businesses, increasing Teledyne's capital requirements.

Under SEC rules, Teledyne must issue a report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. The SEC permits a limited time-based exclusion for acquisitions to give a company an opportunity to evaluate more fully the internal controls of acquired companies and correct deficiencies and institute new or additional internal controls. Our 2012 management's report specifically excludes from its scope and coverage our 2012 acquisitions of LeCroy, BlueView, VariSystems, PDM Neptec and the majority interest in the parent company of Optech, allowing us additional time to evaluate existing internal controls and implement additional controls as appropriate. With regard to future acquisitions, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to provide a report that contains no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses with respect to these acquired companies or other acquisitions.

In connection with our acquisitions, including ones which we do not complete, we may incur significant transaction costs. We are required to expense as incurred such transaction costs, which may have an adverse impact on our quarterly financial results.

We are subject to the risks associated with international sales, which could harm our business or results of operations.

During 2012, sales to international customers accounted for approximately39%of our total revenues, as compared to36%in 2011 and29%in 2010. We anticipate that future sales to international customers will continue to account for a significant and increasing percentage of our revenues, particularly since business and growth plans for many Teledyne businesses focus on sales outside of the United States, including to emerging markets such as China and Brazil.  The total 2012 top five countries for international sales were United Kingdom, Norway, China, Germany and Japan, constituting 19% of our total sales.  The 2011 DALSA acquisition and the 2012 LeCroy acquisition each has contributed to greater international sales. Risks associated with international sales include:

•political and economic instability;

•international terrorism;

•export controls, including U.S. export controls related to China and increased scrutiny of exports of marine instruments, digital imaging and other products;

•changes in legal and regulatory requirements;

•U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products;

•changes in tax laws and tariffs;

•changes in U.S. - China relations;

•difficulties in protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights;

•transportation, including piracy in international waters; and

•exchange fluctuations.

Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our products to international customers and therefore reduce our competitive position. With the 2011 acquisition of Canada-based DALSA and the 2012 acquisitions of the majority interest in the parent company of Optech and VariSystems, also Canada-based, volatility in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the









U.S. dollar, or other foreign currencies, could adversely affect the business, operations and the financial condition of our Digital Imaging segment.

Sales of our products and services internationally are subject to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. Violations of export control rules could result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or more businesses or the entire corporation. Depending on the scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on our ability to perform certain international contracts.

Among other things, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment.  Further, in 2011, the United Kingdom also implemented the U.K. Bribery Act, which raised the bar for anti-bribery law enforcement and compliance relative to the FCPA. Any determination that we had violated the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, or equivalent anti-bribery and corruption laws in countries in which we do business could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  While we have procedures and compliance programs in place and conduct FCPA and other trainings, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from misconduct by our employees, agents or business partners.

We face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties that we do not control, which could harm our business.

We sell a portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, value-added resellers and OEMs (collectively “distributors”).  Using third parties for distribution exposes Teledyne to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk and compliance risks.  We may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue.  Distributor may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivables and financial results.  Violations of the FCPA or similar anti-bribery laws by distributors or other third party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business.  Failing to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position.

Our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with our covenants that apply to our indebtedness, could materially and adversely affect our business.

As of December 30, 2012, we had $543.9 million in total outstanding indebtedness. This indebtedness included $250.0 million in senior unsecured notes issued and sold in a private placement transaction in September 2010, $200.0 million in term loans obtained in October 2012, $79.0 million under our $550.0 million credit facility and $14.8 million in other debt. Our indebtedness could harm our business by, among other things, reducing the funds available to make new strategic acquisitions or reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions.  Our indebtedness exposes us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. Our indebtedness could also have a material adverse effect on our business by increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business. General adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business could result in our inability to repay this indebtedness in a timely manner. We may also amend our current credit facility or enter into new credit facility.  We may also elect to raise other forms of debt capital, depending on financial, market and economic conditions.

Product liability claims, product recalls and field service actions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition and we may have difficulty obtaining product liability and other insurance coverage.

As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products, including monitoring instruments, products used in offshore oil and gas production, products used in commercial aviation and medical devices, our results of operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the quality or safety of our products. In part, product liability claims challenging the safety of our products may result in a decline in sales for a particular product, which could adversely affect our results of operations. This could be the case even if the claims themselves are proven untrue or settled for immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other insurance policies concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of these liabilities. Awarded damages could be more than our accruals. We could incur losses above the aggregate annual policy limit as well. We cannot assure that, for 2013 and in future years, insurance carriers will be willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product liability.

Product recalls can be expensive and tarnish our reputation and have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products.

We have been joined, among a number of defendants (often over 100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos. Also, because of the prominent “Teledyne” name, we may continue to be mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a company or business that was not assumed by us as part of our 1999 spin-off. To date, we have not incurred









material liabilities in connection with these lawsuits. However, our historic insurance coverage, including that of its predecessors, may not fully cover such claims and the defense of such matters. Coverage typically depends on the year of purported exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, we intend to vigorously defend our position against these claims.

Certain gas generators historically manufactured by Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. contained a sealed, wetted asbestos component. While the company has transitioned to a replacement material, had placed warning labels on its products and took care in handling of this discontinued material by employees, there is no assurance that the company will not face product liability or workers compensation claims involving this component.

Our Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc.'s laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee performs radiological analyses. Errors and omissions in analyses may occur. Our insurance coverage or indemnities may not be adequate to cover potential problems associated with faulty radiological analyses.

Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. and other Teledyne companies manufacture components for customers in the nuclear power market, including utilities and certain governmental entities. Certain liabilities associated with such products are covered by the Price Anderson Act and other statutory and common law defenses, and we have received indemnities from some of our customers. However, there is no assurance we will not face product liability claims related to such products or that our exposure will not exceed the amounts for which we have liability coverage or protection.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional product liability claims or that we will not recall any additional products.

Our pension expense and the value of our pension assets are affected by factors outside of our control, including the performance of plan assets, the stock market, interest rates and actuarial experience.

Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairment charges.









We may not have sufficient resources to fund all future research and development and capital expenditures or possible acquisitions.

We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our participation in new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technologies and develop new products to expand into new market segments. We may be unsuccessful in accessing these and other new markets if our products do not meet our customers' requirements, as a result of changes in either technology and industry standards or because of actions taken by our competitors.

Limitations in customer funding for applied research and development and technology insertion projects and government support for research and development expenditures may reduce our ability to apply our ongoing investments in some market areas.

We may be unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could harm our growth and prospects.

Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. In order to improve our product development capabilities we purchased the research center that is now Teledyne Scientific Company in 2006 and in 2011 we purchased DALSA, which has access to a well-equipped MEMS research and development center. Successful product development and introduction depend on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our competitors, and market acceptance. We may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that satisfy customer requirements.

Our new products also may not achieve market acceptance or correctly address new industry standards and technological changes. We may also lose any technological advantage to competitors if we fail to develop new products in a timely manner.

Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs as such products are tested further by actual usage. Accelerated entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and competitive pressures may cause additional warranty costs as development and testing time periods might be accelerated or condensed.

Technological change and evolving industry and regulatory standards could cause some of our products or services to become obsolete or non-competitive.

The markets for some of our products and services are characterized by rapid technological development, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and new product introductions and enhancements. A faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or services, or in market demand for products or services based on a particular technology, could result in faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products or services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Currently accepted industry and regulatory standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products or services.









We may not be able to reduce the costs of our products to satisfy customers' cost reduction mandates, which could harm our sales or margins.

More and more customers continue to seek price reductions of our products. While we continually work to reduce our manufacturing and other costs of our products, without affecting product quality and reliability, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so and do so in a timely manner to satisfy the pricing pressures of our customers. Cost reductions of raw materials and other components used in our products may be beyond our control depending on market, credit and economic conditions. Customers may seek lower cost products from China and other developing countries where manufacturing costs are lower.

The airline industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our results of operations could suffer.

Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries. If any material authorization or approval qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended, then the sale of the product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Increasing competition could reduce the demand for our products and services.

Each of our markets is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. New or existing competitors may also develop new technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. Industry acquisition and consolidation trends, particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, have adversely impacted demand for our aerospace and defense related engineering services as large prime contractors in-source increased amounts of major acquisition programs and also require significant expansion in small business participation to meet Government contracting goals. Low-cost competition from China and other developing countries could also result in decreased demand for our products. Increasing competition could reduce the volume of our sales or the prices we may charge, which would negatively impact our revenues. Smaller defense budgets both in the United States and Europe could result in additional competition for new and existing defense programs.

We sell products to customers in industries that may again undergo rapid and unpredictable changes, which could adversely affect our operations results or production levels.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries that have undergone rapid changes in the past,  including the semiconductor and the telecommunications industries. In 2009, DALSA experienced a significant decline in demand for its products for the semiconductor and electronics inspection industries. These industries, or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in the future and may adversely affect our operating results, or our production levels, or both.

Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by conditions and other factors associated with our suppliers.









to obtain needed components for our products.

Some of our commercial product lines may have one or a limited number of customers, the loss of which could adversely affect our business or financial results.

While no commercial customer accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during 2012, 2011 and 2010 and we have hundreds of customers in the various industries that we serve, certain product lines may have one or a few key customers the loss of which could adversely affect our business or financial results.  Teledyne's largest commercial customer, a customer of our Instrumentation segment, accounted for 3.4%, 2.9% and 3.5% of total sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

Newer products, such as our X-ray panel products, may initially be more heavily dependent on a singular or limited number of customers until market acceptance is obtained or due to contractual terms.  Similarly, some older product lines may be more heavily dependent on a singular or limited number of customers.  In either such case, the loss of such customer or customers could adversely affect our business or financial results.

Compliance with increasing environmental and climate change regulations, as well as the effects of potential environmental liabilities, could have a material adverse financial effect on us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject to various federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly as greenhouse gas emissions and climate change regulations and initiatives increase. Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental and climate change matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, environmental regulations imposed on its customers, including hydraulic fracturing moratoriums, could continue to adversely affect the business of VariSystems Inc. acquired in 2012.

Our manufacturing operations could expose us to material environmental liabilities and companies we acquire may have environmental liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the discussion under the caption “Other Matters - Environmental” of “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial Condition” and Note 15 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced that greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) threaten the public health and welfare of the American people. EPA also maintains that GHG emissions from on-road vehicles contribute to that threat. EPA's endangerment finding covers emissions of six greenhouse gases. EPA's efforts to limit GHG emissions could adversely affect our U.S. manufacturing operations, increase prices for energy, fuel and transportation, require us to accommodate changes in parameters, such as the way parts are manufactured, and may, in some cases, require us to redesign of certain products. This could lead to increased costs, which we may not be able to recover from customers, delays in product shipments and loss of market share to competitors.

Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our future success.

Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We also have a maturing work force. While we have engaged in succession planning, the loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may not be able to sell, exit or reconfigure businesses that we determine no longer meet with our growth strategy.

Consistent with our strategy to emphasize growth in our core markets, we continually evaluate our businesses to ensure that they are aligned with our strategy.  This review led to the decision to sell our general aviation piston engine businesses, which sale was completed in April 2011.  In 2012, as a result of our review and declines in our electronic manufacturing services businesses, we determined to close our Teledyne Microelectronics Technologies' facility in Marina del Rey, California and began to relocate several of its product lines to other Teledyne locations.

Our ability to dispose of, exit or reconfigure businesses that may no longer be aligned with our growth strategy will depend on many factors, including the terms and conditions of any asset purchase and sale agreement, as well as industry, business and economic conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to sell non-strategic businesses on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Also, if the sale of any non-strategic business cannot be consummated or is not practical, alternative courses of action, including relocation of product lines or closure, may not be available to us or may be more costly than anticipated.









Natural and man-made disasters could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

The environmental disaster triggered by the Deepwater Horizon rig explosion and oil spill in 2010 resulted in a moratorium on offshore oil and gas production in the Gulf of Mexico that adversely affected the results of operations of some of our Teledyne Oil and Gas businesses, although such adverse impact was offset, in part, by the products we manufacture that supported well-capping and environmental clean-up efforts. New environmental regulations enacted in the wake of this oil spill have resulted in increased compliance costs to some of our Teledyne Oil & Gas businesses. Similar future man-made disasters that limit or cease offshore oil and gas production or further exploration in the regions in which we sell our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Disasters that do not directly impact us can have an indirect adverse impact on our business. For example, in 2011 the earthquake in northern Japan and the related tsunami and severe flooding in Thailand resulted in certain of our customers delaying orders for our products because they were unable to obtain critical supplies from vendors in the impacted areas.

We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business.

Our ability to enforce and protect our patents, copyrights, software licenses, trade secrets, know how, and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, as our Teledyne Controls business has experienced, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own or assert other claims against us. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and our business.

Our business and operations could suffer in the event of cyber security breaches.

Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. These attempts, which might be related to industrial, foreign government espionage, or activism, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks, performing reconnaissance, and impersonating authorized users, among other activities. We continue to update our infrastructure to protect against security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, and company personnel have been tasked to detect and investigate such incidents, but it is possible that we might not be aware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information of third parties or the government, we may incur liability or the loss of security clearances as a result. In addition, we expect to continue devoting additional resources to the security of our information technology systems.









Increases in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations.

Our effective tax rate for 2012 was 28.7%, compared with 32.9% for 2011 and 30.9% for 2010.  Fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 included net tax credits of $5.4 million, $2.4 million and $12.5 million, respectively.  Excluding these items, Teledyne's effective tax rates for 2012, 2011 and 2010 would have been 31.0%, 34.0% and 38.1%, respectively.  While there have been Congressional discussion about lowering the corporate tax rate in the U.S. to improve global competitiveness, a number of factors may impact our effective tax rates, which could reduce our net income, including:

•the relative amount of income we earn in jurisdictions;

•changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in the U.S. to the taxation of foreign income and expenses, changes in tax laws in foreign jurisdictions, and changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and governing body pronouncements and interpretations;

•the resolution of issues arising from tax audits;

•changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, including deferred tax valuation allowances;

•adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns;

•increases in expense not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in process research and development and impairment of  and impairments of goodwill;

•changes in available tax credits; and

•any decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes.



Our financial statements are based on estimates required by GAAP, and actual results may differ materially from those estimated under different assumptions or conditions.

Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. These principles require our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. For example, estimates are used when accounting for items such as asset valuations, allowances for doubtful accounts, allowance for excess and obsolete inventory, depreciation and amortization, impairment  assessments, employee benefits, taxes, recall and warranty costs, aircraft product and general liability and contingencies. While we base our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time made, actual results may differ materially from those estimated.

While we believe our internal control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements resulting from error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.

Provisions of our governing documents, applicable law, and our Change in Control Severance Agreements could make an acquisition of Teledyne more difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Amended and Restated Bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware contain several provisions that could make the acquisition of control of Teledyne, in a transaction not approved by our board of directors, more difficult. We have also entered into Change in Control Severance Agreements with 17 members of our management, which could have an anti-takeover effect. These provisions may prevent or discourage attempts to acquire our company.









The market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated significantly since we became a public company, and could continue to do so.

Since we became an independent public company on November 29, 1999, the market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated substantially and fluctuations in our stock price could continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:

•quarterly variations in our operating results;

•strategic actions by us or our competitors;

•acquisitions;

•divestitures;

•adverse business developments;

•war in the Middle East or elsewhere;

•terrorists activities;

•military or homeland defense activities;

•changes to the U.S. Federal budget;

•changes in the energy exploration or production, semiconductor, digital imaging, telecommunications, commercial aviation, and electronic manufacturing services markets;

•general market conditions;

•changes in tax laws;

•general economic factors unrelated to our performance;

•changes from analysts' expectations in revenues, earnings or other financial results; and

•one or more of the risk factors described in this report.

The stock markets in general, and the markets for high technology companies in particular, have experienced a high degree of volatility that is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies. We cannot provide assurances as to our stock price.



