Item 1A. Risk Factors.

Risk Factors;
Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking Statements

The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties
associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect “forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that we may from time to time make, including forward-looking
statements contained in “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K and in Teledyne’s 2011 Annual Report to
Stockholders. It is not possible for management to predict all such factors, and new factors may emerge. Additionally, management cannot assess the impact of each such factor on Teledyne or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors,
may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.









A new global recession, continued economic uncertainty in Europe or an economic downturn in China may
adversely affect us.

If another global recession emerges, if economic uncertainty in Europe continues or worsens, or if
economic growth in China substantially slows, we may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows from reduced orders, payment delays, collection difficulties or other factors caused by the economic problems of customers. If the
negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit or render them insolvent, orders for our products may decrease, which would result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in
obtaining credit, in selling their products, or otherwise in operating their businesses or remaining solvent, they may become unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These events could adversely impact our ability to
manufacture affected products and could also result in reductions in our revenue, increased price competition, and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.

With the acquisition of DALSA Corporation, the risk profile of Teledyne may differ materially from prior years, which could materially
change Teledyne’s results of operations.

We sell products and services to customers in
industries that are cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic activity.

We develop and manufacture products
for customers in the energy exploration and production markets, domestic and international commercial aerospace markets, the semiconductor industry, consumer electronics and the automotive industry, each of which has been cyclical and suffered from
fluctuating market demands. A cyclical downturn in these markets may materially affect future operating results.

In addition,
we sell products and services to customers in industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic activity and consumer spending habits and in more mature industries that are sensitive to capacity. Adverse economic conditions affecting
these industries may reduce demand for our products and services, which may reduce our revenues, profits or production levels. Some of our businesses serve industries such as power generation and petrochemical refining, which may be negatively
impacted by reductions in global capital expenditures and manufacturing capacity.

Our dependence on revenue from government contracts
subjects us to many risks:

Our revenue from government contracts depends on the continued availability of funding from
the U.S. Government, and, accordingly, we have the risk that funding for our existing contracts may be canceled or diverted to other uses or delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of Defense and other agencies and departments of the U.S. Government including sub-contracts with government prime contractors. Sales
under contracts with the U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under contracts with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately 36% of our total revenue in 2011, as compared







with 44% in 2010 and 47% in 2009. Performance under government contracts has certain inherent risks that could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, and financial
condition.

Our participation in government programs may decrease or be subject to renegotiation as those programs evolve over time.

The U.S. Government has been placing emphasis on small business quotas and increasing small business contract set
asides and minimum work percentages. In some cases, prime contractors are required to reduce participation by large subcontractors like Teledyne in order to fill small business quotas and be responsive to proposals and bids. As a result, our
Engineered Systems segment could be significantly impacted.

Over time, and for a variety of reasons, programs can evolve and
affect the extent of our participation. For example, Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc.’s Ground-based Midcourse Defense program was negatively impacted by both the nominal end date of development activity and the change in focus of the current
Administration relative to missile defense.

We have been a significant participant in NASA programs, primarily through our
Engineered Systems segment and through Teledyne Scientific Company. Over the past two years, the President introduced significant changes to the national space policy. The current Administration has cancelled NASA’s Constellation Program which
includes Ares launch vehicles. The current Administration plans to utilize commercial launch vehicles for crew and cargo ISS expeditions, and develop a NASA heavy lift launch vehicle for space exploration. As a result







of these changes, we will attempt to transition our business to meet the needs of the new policy and programs. However, failure to transition our business successfully could result in reduced
sales. In addition, delayed funding and lack of clear focus and support for NASA’s new space policy could negatively impact our business.

Our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to termination rights that could adversely affect us.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the U.S. Government either at its convenience or upon the default of the contractor. Termination for convenience provisions
provide only for the recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to termination. Termination for default clauses impose liability on the contractor for excess costs incurred by the
U.S. Government in reprocuring undelivered items from another source. We had seven U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience in 2011, compared to two in 2010 and seven in 2009.

We may lose money or generate less than expected profits on our fixed-price government contracts and we may lose money if we fail to
meet certain pre-specified targets in government contracts.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will
be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts are fixed-price type contracts (60% of our total U.S. Government contracts were fixed-price in 2011, 54% in 2010 and 50% in 2009). Under these types of
contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. Under such contracts, we must absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing
these contracts. We cannot assure that our contract loss provisions in our financial statements will be adequate to cover all actual future losses. We may lose money on some contracts if we fail to meet these estimates.

Our business is subject to government contracting regulations and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm our
operating results and prospects.

We, like other government contractors, are subject to various audits, reviews and
investigations (including private party “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance with federal and state laws. Should the business or division involved be charged with wrongdoing, or should the U.S. Government determine
that the business or division is not a “presently responsible contractor,” that business or division, and conceivably our Company as a whole, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a conviction, could be debarred for up to
three years from receiving new government contracts or government-approved subcontracts. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts defending against such charges and in damages, fines and penalties if such charges were proven or were to
result in negotiated settlements.

United States and global responses to terrorism, the end of the war in Iraq and the winding down of war
in Afghanistan, the mass protests and turmoil in Middle Eastern countries, Mexican border town violence, concerns regarding nuclear proliferation and the safety of nuclear energy, potential epidemics, financial issues facing airlines and volatile
energy prices increase uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may adversely affect our business and results of operations.

United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the announced end of war in Iraq and the winding down of war in Afghanistan, the mass protests and turmoil in Middle Eastern countries, Mexican
border town violence and nuclear proliferation concerns increase uncertainties with respect to U.S. and other business and financial markets and could adversely affect our business and operations.

Air travel declines have occurred after terrorist attacks and heightened security alerts, as well as after the H1N1 virus, SARS and bird
flu scares. Additional declines in air travel resulting from such factors and other factors could adversely affect the financial condition of many of our commercial airline and aircraft manufacturer customers and, in turn, could adversely affect our
Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. In addition, a prolonged virus epidemic or pandemic, or the threat thereof, could result in worker absences, lower productivity, voluntary closure of our offices and manufacturing facilities, disruptions in
our supply chain, travel restrictions on our employees, and other disruptions to our businesses. Moreover, health epidemics may force local health and government authorities to mandate the temporary closure of our offices and manufacturing
facilities.







Deterioration of financial performance of airlines could result in a reduction of
discretionary spending for upgrades of avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would adversely affect our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment.

Higher oil prices could adversely affect commercial airline-related customers of our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. Conversely, lower oil prices could decrease oil exploration and
petrochemical refining activities and hinder our marine and other instrumentation businesses. In addition, instability in the Middle East or other oil-producing regions could adversely affect expansion plans of the oil and gas industry customers of
our instrumentation and cable solutions businesses.

The Fukushima Daiichi nuclear incident in 2011 created uncertainty for our
U.S. nuclear market customers for new nuclear power plant construction. This uncertainty could have an impact on investments in the nuclear market, including investments associated with building enriched uranium plants, which could have an adverse
impact on our Engineered Systems segment.

Acquisitions involve inherent risks that may adversely affect our operating results and
financial condition.

Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks, such as:



•our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths, weaknesses, internal controls, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of
acquisition candidates;



•the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business;



•our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve identified financial, operating and other synergies anticipated to result from an
acquisition;



•our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls of acquired businesses in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002;



•the distraction of management resulting from the need to integrate acquired businesses;



•increased competition for acquisition targets, which may increase acquisition costs;



•the risks associated with acquiring privately-held companies, which generally do not have as formal or comprehensive internal controls and compliance
systems in place as public companies;



•production delays associated with consolidating acquired facilities and manufacturing operations;



•risks associated with owning and operating businesses internationally, including those arising from U.S. and foreign government policy changes or
actions and exchange rate fluctuations; and



•unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business.

While we conduct financial and other due diligence in connection with our acquisitions and generally seek some form of protection,
including indemnification from a seller and sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at
the time of the acquisition. Further, indemnities or escrows may not fully cover such matters, particularly matters identified after a closing.

Under SEC rules, Teledyne must issue a report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. The SEC permits a limited time-based exclusion for
acquisitions to give a company an opportunity to evaluate more fully the internal controls of acquired companies and correct deficiencies and institute new or additional internal controls. Our 2011 management’s report specifically excludes from
its scope and coverage our 2011 acquisition of a majority interest in Nova Sensors, allowing us additional time to evaluate existing internal controls and implement additional controls as appropriate. With regard to future acquisitions, we can
provide no assurance that we will be able to provide a report that contains no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses with respect to these acquired companies or other acquisitions.







In connection with our acquisitions, including ones which we do not complete, we may incur
significant transaction costs. We are required to expense as incurred such transaction costs, which may have an adverse impact on our quarterly financial results.

We are subject to the risks associated with international sales, which could harm our business or results of operations.

During 2011, sales to international customers accounted for approximately 36% of our total revenues, as compared to 29% in 2010 and 26% in 2009. We anticipate that future sales to international customers
will continue to account for a significant and increasing percentage of our revenues, particularly since business and growth plans for many Teledyne businesses focus on sales outside of the United States, including to emerging markets such as China
and Brazil. The DALSA acquisition also has contributed to greater international sales. Risks associated with these sales include:



•political and economic instability;



•international terrorism;



•export controls, including U.S. export controls related to China and increased scrutiny of exports of marine instruments, digital imaging and
other products;



•changes in legal and regulatory requirements;



•U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the markets for our products;



•changes in tax laws and tariffs;



•changes in U.S.-China relations;



•transportation, including piracy in international waters; and



•exchange rate fluctuations.

Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our products to
international customers and therefore reduce our competitive position. With the acquisition of Canada-based DALSA, volatility in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar, or other foreign currencies, could adversely affect
the business, operations and the financial condition of our Digital Imaging segment.

Sales of our products and services
internationally are subject to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. Violations of export control rules could result in suspension of our ability to
export items from one or more businesses or the entire corporation. Depending on the scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on our ability to perform certain international contracts.

Among other things, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies
and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In particular, while we have procedures in place and conduct FCPA training, we may be held liable
for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Further, the United Kingdom recently implemented the U.K. Bribery Act, which raises the bar for anti-bribery law enforcement and compliance
relative to the FCPA. Any determination that we had violated the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, or equivalent anti-bribery and corruption laws in countries in which we do business could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our business.

As of January 1, 2012, we had $298.0 million in total outstanding indebtedness. This indebtedness included
$250.0 million in senior unsecured notes issued and sold in a private placement transaction in September 2010 and $48.0 million under our $550.0 million credit facility that we entered into in February 2011, which does not terminate until
February 25, 2016. Our indebtedness could harm our business by, among other things, reducing the funds available to make new strategic acquisitions. Our indebtedness could also have a material adverse effect on our business by increasing our
vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a







downturn in our business. General adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business could result in our inability to repay this indebtedness in a timely manner. We may also
elect to raise other forms of debt capital, depending on financial, market and economic conditions.

Product liability claims, product
recalls and field service actions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition and we may have difficulty obtaining product liability and other insurance coverage.

As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products, including monitoring instruments, products used in offshore oil and gas
production, products used in commercial aviation and medical devices, our results of operations are susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the quality or safety of our products. In part, product liability claims challenging the safety of our
products may result in a decline in sales for a particular product, which could adversely affect our results of operations. This could be the case even if the claims themselves are proven untrue or settled for immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other insurance policies concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions or
deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of these liabilities. Awarded damages could be more than our accruals. We could incur losses above the aggregate annual policy limit as well. We cannot assure that, for 2012 and in future
years, insurance carriers will be willing to renew coverage or provide new coverage for product liability.

Product recalls can
be expensive and tarnish our reputation and have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products.

We have been joined,
among a number of defendants (often over 100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos. Also, because of the prominent “Teledyne” name, we may continue to be mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a
company or business that was not assumed by us as part of our 1999 spin-off. To date, we have not incurred material liabilities in connection with these lawsuits. However, our historic insurance coverage, including that of its predecessors, may not
fully cover such claims and the defense of such matters. Coverage typically depends on the year of purported exposure and other factors. Nonetheless, we intend to defend these claims vigorously.

Certain gas generators historically manufactured by Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc. contained a sealed, wetted asbestos component. While the
company has transitioned to a replacement material, had placed warning labels on its products and took care in handling of this discontinued material by employees, there is no assurance that the company will not face product liability or workers
compensation claims involving this component.

Our Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc.’s laboratory in Knoxville, Tennessee
performs radiological analyses. Errors and omissions in analyses may occur. Our insurance coverage or indemnities may not be adequate to cover potential problems associated with faulty radiological analyses.

Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. and other Teledyne companies manufacture components for customers in the nuclear power market, including
utilities and certain governmental entities. Certain liabilities associated with such products are covered by the Price Anderson Act and other statutory and common law defenses, and we have received indemnities from some of our customers. However,
there is no assurance we will not face product liability claims related to such products or that our exposure will not exceed the amounts for which we have liability coverage or protection.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional product liability claims or that we will not recall any additional products.

Our pension expenses and the value of our pension assets are affected by factors outside of our control, including the performance of plan assets, the
stock market, interest rates and actuarial data.

We have a defined benefit qualified pension plan covering most of our
U.S. employees hired prior to 2004 (approximately 27% of our employees). The value of the combined pension assets is currently less than our accumulated pension benefit obligation. The accounting rules applicable to our qualified pension plan
require that amounts recognized in the financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as







contributions are made to the plan. Two significant elements in determining our pension income or pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate used in projecting
pension benefit obligations. Declines in the stock market and lower rates of return could increase required contributions to our qualified pension plan. Our investment strategy may not be successful if the credit, financial or stock markets
deteriorate. Any decreases or increases in market interest rates will affect the discount rate assumption used in projecting pension benefit obligations. If, and to the extent, decreases are not offset by voluntary contributions or asset returns,
our required cash contributions and pension expense could increase under the plans. For additional discussion of pension matters, see the discussion under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition” and Notes 2 and 12 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our future financial results could be
adversely impacted by asset impairment charges.

We may not have sufficient resources to fund all future
research and development and capital expenditures or possible acquisitions.

In order to remain competitive, we must make a
substantial investment in research and development of new or enhanced products and continuously upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities. In September 2006, we acquired Rockwell Scientific Company LLC, a provider of research and
development services primarily in the areas of electronics, optics, information sciences and materials technologies, and in 2011 we acquired DALSA, which historically has made significant investments in research and development relative to total
revenues. With Teledyne Scientific Company in our portfolio, we have been more actively promoting and funding joint research and development projects with other Teledyne businesses, including Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc., Teledyne Reynolds, Inc.
and our Teledyne Oil & Gas businesses. We may be unable to fund all of our research and development and capital investment needs or possible acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on a variety of factors, some of
which will not be within our control, including the existence of a public offering market, investor perceptions of us, our businesses and the industries in which we operate, and general economic conditions. Failure to successfully raise needed
capital on a timely or cost-effective basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our participation in certain new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technologies and develop new products to expand into new market segments. We may be unsuccessful in accessing these and other new markets if our products do not meet
our customers’ requirements, as a result of changes in either technology and industry standards or because of actions taken by our competitors.

Limitations in customer funding for applied research and development and technology insertion projects and government support for research and development expenditures may reduce our ability to apply our
ongoing investments in some market areas.







We may be unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective
manner, which could harm our growth and prospects.

Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce new
and enhanced products on a timely basis. In order to improve our product development capabilities we purchased the research center that is now Teledyne Scientific Company in 2006 and in 2011 we purchased DALSA, which has access to a well-equipped
MEMS research and development center. Successful product development and introduction depend on numerous factors, including our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our ability to
differentiate our offerings from offerings of our competitors, and market acceptance. We may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that satisfy
customer requirements.

Our new products also may not achieve market acceptance or correctly address new industry standards and
technological changes. We may also lose any technological advantage to competitors if we fail to develop new products in a timely manner.

Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs as such products are tested further by actual usage. Accelerated entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and competitive
pressures may cause additional warranty costs as development and testing time periods might be accelerated or condensed.

Technological
change and evolving industry and regulatory standards could cause certain of our products or services to become obsolete or non-competitive.

The markets for some of our products and services are characterized by rapid technological development, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and new product introductions and
enhancements. A faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or services, or in market demand for products or services based on a particular technology, could result in faster than anticipated
obsolescence of certain of our products or services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Currently accepted industry and regulatory standards are also subject to change, which may
contribute to the obsolescence of our products or services.

We may not be able to reduce the costs of our products to satisfy
customers’ cost reduction mandates, which could harm our sales or margins.

More and more customers continue to seek
price reductions of our products. While we continually work to reduce our manufacturing and other costs of our products, without affecting product quality and reliability, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so and do so in a timely
manner to satisfy the pricing pressures of our customers. Cost reductions of raw materials and other components used in our products may be beyond our control depending on market, credit and economic conditions. Customers may seek lower cost
products from China and other developing countries where manufacturing costs are lower.

The airline industry is heavily regulated, and if
we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our results of operations could suffer.

Governmental agencies throughout
the world, including the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products. Specific
regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries. If any material authorization or approval qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or
suspended, then the sale of the product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing regulations. If
these proposed regulations are adopted and enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.







Increasing competition could reduce the demand for our products and services.

Each of our markets is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we do. New or existing competitors may also develop new
technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. Industry acquisition and consolidation trends, particularly among aerospace and defense contractors, have adversely impacted demand for our aerospace and defense
related engineering services as large prime contractors in-source increased amounts of major acquisition programs and also require significant expansion in small business participation to meet Government contracting goals. Low-cost competition from
China and other developing countries could also result in decreased demand for our products. Increasing competition could reduce the volume of our sales or the prices we may charge, which would negatively impact our revenues. Smaller defense budgets
both in the United States and Europe could result in additional competition for new and existing defense programs.

We sell products to
customers in industries that may again undergo rapid and unpredictable changes, which could adversely affect our operations results or production levels.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For example, we manufacture products that serve the semiconductor and telecommunications
markets. In 2009, DALSA experienced a significant decline in demand for its products for the semiconductor and electronics inspection industries. These industries, or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in the future and may adversely
affect our operating results, or our production levels, or both.

Our Engineered Systems segment manufactures gas centrifuge
service modules for USEC, Inc., used in the American Centrifuge Project. In May 2010, USEC announced that Toshiba and Babcock and Wilcox signed definitive agreements to provide co-investments of $100 million each in the American Centrifuge
Plant payable in three installments. In late July 2010, USEC updated its application to the Department of Energy, which triggered the initial investment of $75.0 million from Toshiba and Babcock and Wilcox. However, USEC has not secured a loan
guarantee from the U.S. Department of Energy and it has not authorized a return to full production. Failure to secure the loan guarantees would seriously jeopardize USEC’s ability to finance, and therefore complete, the centrifuge project.
Continuation of this project may depend on USEC receiving a favorable ruling regarding its loan guarantee application. If USEC does not receive a favorable ruling, future funding on this program could be reduced or eliminated. In such an event, our
Engineered Systems segment may experience reduced sales.

Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by conditions and
other factors associated with our suppliers.

Some items we purchase for the manufacture of our products are purchased from
limited or single sources of supply due to technical capability, price and other factors. We have also outsourced from time to time the manufacturing of certain parts, components, subsystems and even finished products to single or limited sources,
including international sources. Disruption of these sources could cause delays or reductions in shipments of our products or increases in our costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or operations. International sources
possess additional risks, some of which are similar to those described above in regard to international sales. With any continuing disruption in the global economy and financial markets, some of our suppliers may also continue to face issues gaining
access to sufficient credit and materials to maintain their businesses, which could reduce the availability of some components and, to the extent such suppliers are single source suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to continue to
manufacture and sell our products. Continuing economic pressure on suppliers may also trigger increased pricing or workforce reductions or reduced workweeks possibly creating longer lead times to obtain needed components for our products.

Compliance with increasing environmental and climate change regulations, as well as the effects of potential environmental liabilities,
could have a material adverse financial effect on us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject to various
federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly as greenhouse gas emissions and climate change regulations and initiatives
increase. Future developments, administrative actions or liabilities relating to environmental and climate change matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, environmental
regulations imposed on its customers, including hydraulic fracturing moratoriums, could adversely affect the business of recently acquired VariSystems Inc.







Our manufacturing operations could expose us to material environmental liabilities and
companies we acquire may have environmental liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the discussion under the caption “Other Matters — Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Results of Operation and Financial Condition” and Note 15 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced that greenhouse gases (GHGs) threaten the public health and welfare of the American people. EPA also maintains that GHG emissions from on-road vehicles contribute to that threat. EPA’s
endangerment finding covers emissions of six greenhouse gases. EPA’s efforts to limit GHG emissions could adversely affect our U.S. manufacturing operations, increase prices for energy, fuel and transportation, require us to accommodate
changes in parameters, such as the way parts are manufactured, and may, in some cases, require us to redesign of certain products. This could lead to increased costs, which we may not be able to recover from customers, delays in product shipments
and loss of market share to competitors.

Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our
future success.

Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers
and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We also have a maturing work force. While we have engaged in succession planning, the loss of the services of one or
more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may not be able to sell, or exit on acceptable terms, businesses that we determine no longer meet with our growth strategy.

Consistent with our strategy to emphasize growth in our core markets, we continually evaluate our businesses to ensure that they are
aligned with our strategy. Most recently, this review led to the decision to sell our general aviation piston engine businesses, which sale was completed in April 2011.

Our ability to dispose of or exit businesses that may no longer be aligned with our growth strategy will depend on many factors, including the terms and conditions of any asset purchase and sale
agreement, as well as industry, business and economic conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to sell non-strategic businesses on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Also, if the sale of any non-strategic business
cannot be consummated or is not practical, alternative courses of action, including closure, may not be available to us or may be more costly than anticipated.

Natural and man-made disasters could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.







cover all possible losses. In addition, our existing disaster recovery and business continuity plans (including those relating to our information technology systems) may not be fully responsive
to, or minimize losses associated with, catastrophic events.

The environmental disaster triggered by the Deepwater Horizon rig
explosion and oil spill in 2010 resulted in a moratorium on offshore oil and gas production in the Gulf of Mexico that adversely affected the results of operations of some of our Teledyne Oil and Gas businesses, although such adverse impact was
offset, in part, by the products we manufacture that supported well-capping and environmental clean-up efforts. New environmental regulations enacted in the wake of this oil spill have resulted in increased compliance costs to some of our Teledyne
Oil & Gas businesses. Similar future man-made disasters that limit or cease offshore oil and gas production or further exploration in the regions in which we sell our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

Disasters that do not directly impact us can have an indirect adverse impact on our
business. For example, in 2011 the earthquake in northern Japan and the related tsunami and severe flooding in Thailand resulted in certain of our customers delaying orders for our products because they were unable to obtain critical supplies from
vendors in the impacted areas.

We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to
compete and harm our business.

Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual
property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the
intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, as our Teledyne Controls business has experienced, our assertion of intellectual property rights
often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own or assert other claims against us. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able
to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may harm
our competitive position and our business.

Our business and operations could suffer in the event of cyber security breaches.

Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and
are sometimes successful. These attempts, which might be related to industrial, foreign government espionage, or activism, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks, performing reconnaissance, and impersonating authorized
users, among other activities. We continue to update our infrastructure to protect against security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, and company personnel have been tasked to detect and investigate such incidents, but it is possible that
we might not be aware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our
investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information of third parties or the
government, we may incur liability or the loss of security clearances as a result. In addition, we expect to continue devoting additional resources to the security of our information technology systems.

Our financial statements are based on estimates required by GAAP, and actual results may differ materially from those estimated under different
assumptions or conditions.

Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States. These principles require our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and
expenses during the reporting period. For example, estimates are used when accounting for items such as asset valuations, allowances for doubtful accounts, depreciation and amortization, impairment







assessments, employee benefits, taxes, recall costs, aircraft product and general liability and contingencies. While we base our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that
we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time made, actual results may differ materially from those estimated.

While we
believe our internal control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements resulting from error or fraud may occur and may not be detected.

Provisions of our governing documents, applicable law, and our Change in Control Severance Agreements could make an acquisition of Teledyne more
difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Amended and Restated Bylaws and the General Corporation Law of
the State of Delaware contain several provisions that could make the acquisition of control of Teledyne, in a transaction not approved by our board of directors, more difficult. We have also entered into Change in Control Severance Agreements with
18 members of our management, which could have an anti-takeover effect. These provisions may prevent or discourage attempts to acquire our company.

The market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated significantly since we became a public company, and could continue to do so.

Since we became an independent public company on November 29, 1999, the market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated substantially
and fluctuations in our stock price could continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:



•quarterly variations in our operating results;



•strategic actions by us or our competitors;



•acquisitions;



•divestitures;



•adverse business developments;



•war in the Middle East or elsewhere;



•terrorist activities;



•military or homeland defense activities;



•changes to the U.S. Federal budget;



•changes in the energy exploration or production, semiconductor, digital imaging, telecommunications, commercial and general aviation, and electronic
manufacturing services markets



•general market conditions;







•changes in tax laws;



•general economic factors unrelated to our performance; and



•one or more of the other risk factors described in this report.

The stock markets in general, and the markets for high technology companies in particular, have experienced a high degree of volatility
that is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies. We cannot provide assurances as to our stock price.



