10-K


j1536_10k.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission File Number: 1-9595

BEST BUY CO., INC.

(Exact name of Registrant

as specified in its charter)

Securities registered

pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title

  of each class

Name

  of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.10 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered

pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all

reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter

period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has

been subject to such filing requirements for the past

90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to

Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be

contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or

information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this

Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer

(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes

ý

No

o

The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common equity held

by non-affiliates of the Registrant on August 30, 2002, was approximately

$5.615 billion, based on the closing price on such date of $21.20 per share of

the Registrant’s Common Stock, as reported on the New York Stock

Exchange-Composite Index. (For purposes of this calculation all of the

Registrant’s directors and executive officers are deemed affiliates of the

Registrant).

As of May 2, 2003, the Registrant had 322,243,258 shares of its Common

Stock issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year

ended March 1, 2003 (“Annual Report”), are incorporated by reference into

Parts I and II. The Annual Report is Exhibit 13.1 to this report.

Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement dated May 20,

2003, for the regular meeting of shareholders to be held on June 24, 2003

(“Proxy Statement”), are incorporated by reference into Parts II and III.

Section 27A of the

Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange

Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), provide a “safe harbor” for forward–looking

statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information about

their companies. With the exception of historical information, the matters

discussed in this annual report are forward–looking statements and may be

identified by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,”

“plan,” “estimate,” “intend” and “potential.” Such statements reflect our

current view with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks,

uncertainties and assumptions. A variety of factors could cause our actual

results to differ materially from the anticipated results expressed in such

forward–looking statements, including, among other things, general

economic conditions, acquisitions and development of new businesses, product

availability, sales volumes, profit margins, weather, foreign currency

fluctuation, availability of suitable real estate locations, and the impact of

labor markets and new product introductions on our overall profitability.

Readers should review our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the

Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on January 10, 2003, that describes

additional important factors that could cause actual results to differ

materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements made in

this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




PART I

Item 1

. Business.

Overview

History

We are a specialty retailer of consumer electronics, home-office

equipment, entertainment software and appliances with revenue from continuing

operations of $20.9 billion for our fiscal year ended March 1, 2003. We operate

retail stores and commercial Web sites as part of continuing operations under

the brand names Best Buy (BestBuy.com), Future Shop (FutureShop.ca) and

Magnolia Hi-Fi (MagnoliaHiFi.com).

We began in 1966 as an audio components retailer, and with the

introduction of the videocassette recorder in the early 1980’s, expanded into

video products. In 1983, we revised our marketing strategy and began using

mass-merchandising techniques, which included offering a wider variety of

products and operating stores under a “superstore” concept. In 1989, we

dramatically changed our method of retailing by introducing a self-service,

noncommissioned, discount–style store concept designed to give the

customer more control over the purchasing process. In fiscal 2000, we

introduced a small–market Best Buy store concept that offers merchandise

in the same product categories as larger stores, with a product assortment

tailored to each respective community. 

The Best Buy store concept has evolved to include more interactive

displays and, for certain products, a higher level of customer service, with

the latest version designed to increase labor efficiency and to improve

merchandising. In fiscal 2004, we plan to enhance our store formats and

customize product offerings to meet the needs of customers in different

markets.  This plan is consistent with

customer centricity, one of the four key strategic priorities we formalized in

fiscal 2003.

In fiscal 2000, we established Best Buy stores’ online shopping site,

BestBuy.com. Our clicks-and-mortar strategy is designed to empower consumers to

research and purchase products seamlessly either online or in retail stores.

The online site offers products in all of Best Buy stores’ principal product

categories.  In fiscal 2004, we expect

to unveil a Web site with enhanced features including the ability to offer

online consumers an even broader product assortment than we carry in Best Buy

stores.

Acquisitions

In the fourth quarter of

fiscal 2001, we acquired the common stock of Magnolia Hi-Fi, Inc. (Magnolia

Hi-Fi) for $88 million in cash, including transaction costs. Magnolia Hi-Fi is

a Seattle-based, high-end retailer of audio and video products that operated 19

stores in Washington, Oregon and California as of March 1, 2003. We acquired

Magnolia Hi-Fi to access new customers.

In the third quarter of

fiscal 2002, we acquired all of the common stock of Future Shop Ltd. (Future

Shop) for $368 million, net of cash acquired, including transaction costs.

Future Shop, which operated 104 stores as of March 1, 2003, is Canada’s largest

consumer electronics retailer and offers product categories similar to that of

Best Buy stores. We acquired Future Shop to further our expansion plans,

leverage our expertise in consumer electronics retailing and increase

shareholder value. The acquisition marked our initial expansion into

international operations.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2003, we acquired all of the common

stock of Geek Squad, Inc. (Geek Squad) for approximately $3 million, net of

cash acquired, including transaction costs. Geek Squad provides residential

consumer computer support. We acquired Geek Squad to further our plans of

providing technology support services to customers.

Additional information

regarding our acquisitions is included in note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated

Financial Statements on page 54 of our Annual Report, contained in

Exhibit 13.1 to this report, and is incorporated herein by reference.

In fiscal 2003, we put on hold any major acquisitions or expansion

beyond North America to focus on our core business.

Discontinued

Operations

In addition to the acquisitions described above, in the fourth quarter

of fiscal 2001, we acquired the common stock of Musicland Stores Corporation

(Musicland) for $425 million, including transaction costs, plus long-term debt

valued at $271 million. Musicland is primarily a mall-based national retailer

of movies, prerecorded music and other entertainment-related products. At the

end of fiscal 2003, Musicland operated 1,195 retail stores in 48 states, the

District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico, and commercial

Web sites under the brand names Media Play (MediaPlay.com), Sam Goody

(SamGoody.com) and Suncoast (Suncoast.com).

The original strategy behind the Musicland acquisition was to bring

Best Buy’s core competencies in retailing consumer electronics to new consumer

segments, including segments typically underserved by our Best Buy stores.

However, the Musicland business did not meet our financial objectives. After

carefully considering several alternatives, we determined that the interests of

our shareholders, employees, vendors and landlords would be best served by a

sale of the business. Accordingly, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we

committed to a plan to sell our interest in Musicland. We have retained a

national investment banking firm to assist with the sale process, as well as

additional professionals to assist in other areas of the plan. Musicland’s

financial results have been classified separately as discontinued operations in

our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. The sale of

our interest in Musicland will allow us to focus on our consumer electronics

stores, which are the core profit drivers for our business.

Additional information regarding Discontinued Operations is included in

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial

Condition beginning on page 20 of our Annual Report and note 2 of the Notes to

Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 52 of our Annual Report,

incorporated herein by reference.

Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion relates to continuing operations

only.

Business

Strategy

Our vision is to make life fun and easy. Our business strategy is to

bring technology and consumers together in a retail environment that focuses on

educating consumers on the features and benefits of technology and entertainment

products, while maximizing overall profitability. We believe our stores offer

consumers meaningful advantages in store environment, product value, selection

and service, all of which advance our objectives of enhancing our business

model, gaining market share and improving profitability. The Future Shop and

Magnolia Hi-Fi acquisitions provide us with access to new distribution channels

and new customers.

During fiscal 2003, we formalized four strategic priorities that we

believe will further enhance our business model over the next several

years.  Additional information on our

strategic priorities is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of

Results of Operations and Financial Condition beginning on page 20 of our

Annual Report, incorporated herein by reference.

Store

Development

The addition of new stores has played, and we believe it will continue

to play, a significant role in our continued growth and success.  Our store development program focuses on

entering new markets, adding stores within existing markets and relocating,

remodeling and/or expanding existing stores. 

During fiscal 2003, we opened 90 new stores and 17 stores were

remodeled, relocated or expanded.  While

many of the new stores opened in fiscal 2003 were in existing markets, others

were in new markets including the opening of our first Best Buy store in

Manhattan, as well as the opening of the first Best Buy stores in Canada.  During fiscal 2004, we expect to open


approximately 80 new stores, most of which will be located in existing

markets.  We believe that continuing to

grow our store base and locating our stores in desirable geographic markets are

essential to our future success.

Additional information regarding our Outlook for Fiscal 2004 is

included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and

Financial Condition on page 37 of our Annual Report, incorporated herein by

reference.

Customers

We do not have a significant concentration of sales with any individual

customer and, therefore, the loss of any one customer would not have a material

impact on our business. No single customer accounts for 10% or more of our

total revenue.

Suppliers

Our strategy depends, in part, upon our ability to offer customers a

broad selection of name-brand products and, therefore, our success is dependent

upon satisfactory and stable supplier relationships. In fiscal 2003, our 20

largest suppliers accounted for over half of the merchandise we purchased, with

five suppliers – Sony, Hewlett-Packard, Toshiba, Panasonic and Samsung –

representing approximately one-third of total merchandise purchased. The loss

of or disruption in supply from any one of these major suppliers could have a

material adverse effect on our revenue and profits. We generally do not have

long-term written contracts with our major suppliers. We have no indication

that any of our suppliers will discontinue selling us merchandise. We have not

experienced significant difficulty in maintaining satisfactory sources of

supply, and we generally expect that adequate sources of supply will continue

to exist for the types of merchandise sold in our stores.

Working

Capital

We fund the growth of our business through a combination of existing

cash and cash equivalents and cash flows generated from continuing operations.

In addition, our revolving credit facilities are available for additional

working capital needs or investment opportunities.

Additional information on our Liquidity and Capital Resources is included

in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial

Condition beginning on page 31 of our Annual Report, incorporated herein by

reference.

Available

Information

We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and

its rules and regulations.  The Exchange

Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with

the SEC. Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can be

inspected and copied at:

SEC Public Reference Room

450 Fifth Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20549

You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference

Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

You may also obtain these materials electronically by accessing the

SEC’s home page on the Internet at:

http://www.sec.gov

In addition, we make available, free of charge on our Internet Web

site, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current

Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant

to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable

after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You

may review these documents, under the heading “Investor Relations,” by

accessing our Web site:

http://www.BestBuy.com

Also, reports and other information concerning us are available for

inspection and copying at:

New York Stock Exchange

20 Broad Street

New York, NY 10005

Reportable

Operating Segments

During

fiscal 2003, we had two reportable operating segments: Domestic and

International. At the end of fiscal 2003, the Domestic segment included U.S.

Best Buy and Magnolia Hi-Fi stores. U.S. Best Buy stores offer a wide variety

of consumer electronics, home-office equipment, entertainment software and

appliances, and operated 548 stores in 48 states at the end of fiscal 2003.

Magnolia Hi-Fi is a high-end retailer of audio and video products and had 19

stores in Washington, Oregon and California at March 1, 2003. The International

segment was established in connection with our acquisition of Future Shop in

November of fiscal 2002. At the end of fiscal 2003, the International segment

consisted of 104 Future Shop stores operating in all Canadian provinces and

eight Canadian Best Buy stores operating in Ontario. Future Shop and Canadian

Best Buy stores offer products similar to those offered by U.S. Best Buy

stores.

During fiscal 2002, we had three reportable operating segments: Best

Buy, Musicland and International.  The

primary reasons for the combining of our domestic operations into one

reportable operating segment were the significant similarities of their

respective products and markets, the leveraging of our buying and distribution

functions and the merging of many of our operational functions into a shared

services model in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. Based on our commitment to

a plan to sell our interest in Musicland, Musicland’s financial results are no

longer included in the Domestic segment, but rather are reported separately as

discontinued operations.


The following table reconciles stores open at the end of fiscal 2002 to

the number of stores open at the end of fiscal 2003:

Additional information

regarding our Segment Performance is presented in Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition beginning on page 26

of our Annual Report, incorporated herein by reference. In addition, selected

operating segment financial data is included in note 10 of the Notes to

Consolidated Financial Statements on page 62 of our Annual Report, incorporated

herein by reference.

Domestic Segment

U.S. Best Buy Stores

Overview

At the end of fiscal 2003, we operated 548 U.S. Best Buy stores in 48

states. The stores average approximately 44,200 retail square feet and produce

average annual revenue of approximately $37.1 million. U.S. Best Buy

stores collectively represent approximately 24.2 million retail square

feet, or about 90% of our total retail square footage. During fiscal 2002, U.S.

Best Buy stores launched its latest store concept, which was designed to

provide a more flexible architecture, improved merchandising, faster checkout,

better product adjacencies and a more efficient labor model. Most new U.S. Best

Buy stores opened in fiscal 2003 incorporated the features of this latest store

format.

The following table reconciles U.S. Best Buy stores open at the

beginning and end of each of the last five fiscal years:

Merchandise

U.S.

Best Buy stores offer merchandise in five product categories: consumer

electronics, home office, entertainment software, appliances and “other”

products. Consumer electronics, the largest product category based on revenue,

consists of video and audio equipment. Video products include television sets,

DVD players, cameras, camcorders, VCRs and digital broadcast satellite systems.

Audio products include car stereos, portable audio equipment, home theater

audio systems, audio components, shelf systems and speakers. The home office

category includes desktop and notebook computers and related peripheral

equipment, telephones, wireless communication devices and personal digital

assistants. Entertainment software products include compact discs, video game

hardware and software, DVD and VHS movies, and computer software. The appliance

category includes washers, dryers, ranges, refrigerators, freezers and

dishwashers, as well as vacuums, microwaves and housewares. The “other” product

category includes extended service contracts, blank recording media, furniture

and other miscellaneous products such as batteries, business cases and storage

products.

The following table presents U.S. Best Buy stores’ revenue, by product

category, as a percentage of total U.S. Best Buy stores’ revenue:

Operations

U.S. Best Buy stores follow a standardized and detailed operating

procedure called Standard Operating Platform (SOP). The SOP includes procedures

for inventory management, transaction processing, customer relations, store

administration, product sales and merchandise display.

U.S. Best Buy store operations are organized into three divisions. Each

division is divided into regions and is under the supervision of a senior vice

president who oversees store performance through regional vice presidents.

Regional vice presidents have responsibility for a number of districts within

their respective region. District managers monitor store operations and meet

regularly with store managers to discuss merchandising, new product introductions,

sales promotions, customer loyalty programs, employee satisfaction surveys and

store operating performance. Similar meetings are conducted at the corporate

level with divisional and regional management. A senior vice president of

retail operations has overall responsibility for retail store processing and

operations, including labor management. Each district also has a loss

prevention manager, with product security personnel employed at each store to

control physical inventory losses. Advertising, merchandise buying and pricing,

and inventory policies for U.S. Best Buy stores are centrally controlled.


U.S. Best Buy stores are generally open 73 hours a week, seven days a

week. A store is typically staffed by one manager and four to five assistant

managers. The average staff in each store ranges from 65 to 150 people,

depending on store size and sales volume.

Distribution

Generally, merchandise is shipped to U.S. Best Buy stores from one of

six distribution centers located in California, Georgia, Minnesota, Ohio,

Oklahoma and Virginia. U.S. Best Buy stores also currently operate two

dedicated distribution centers for entertainment software in Minnesota and

Indiana. In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2004, we opened an

additional general distribution center in upstate New York. The majority of

U.S. Best Buy stores’ merchandise, except for major appliances and large-screen

televisions, is shipped directly from manufacturers to a distribution center.

Major appliances and large-screen televisions are shipped to satellite

warehouses in each major market. U.S. Best Buy stores are dependent upon the

distribution centers for inventory storage and shipment of most merchandise.

However, in order to meet release dates for selected products and to improve

inventory management, certain merchandise is shipped directly to the stores

from manufacturers and distributors. We believe our current distribution

centers and the relocation of the Ardmore, Oklahoma, distribution center to a

larger facility in fiscal 2005, will accommodate expansion plans for the next

several years. On average, U.S. Best Buy stores receive product shipments two

or three times a week depending on sales volume. Generally, e-commerce

merchandise sales are either picked up at U.S. Best Buy retail stores or

fulfilled through the distribution centers.

Seasonality

Similar

to many retailers, U.S. Best Buy stores’ business is seasonal. Revenue and

earnings are typically greater during the second half of the fiscal year, which

includes the holiday selling season.

Competition

U.S.

Best Buy stores’ industry is highly competitive. U.S. Best Buy stores compete

nationally against other consumer electronics retailers, specialty home office

retailers, mass merchants, home improvement superstores and a growing number of

direct-to-consumer alternatives. U.S. Best Buy stores also compete against

independent dealers, regional chain discount stores, wholesale clubs,

mail-order and Internet retailers, video rental stores and other specialty

retail stores. Mass merchandisers continue to increase their assortment of

consumer electronics products — primarily those that are less complex to sell,

install and operate. Similarly, large home improvement retailers are expanding

their assortment of appliances. In addition, consumers are increasingly

downloading entertainment and computer software directly via the Internet.

We believe our U.S. Best

Buy stores’ formats and brand marketing strategies are differentiated from most

competitors' by positioning our U.S. Best Buy retail stores as the destination

for new technology and entertainment products in a fun, informative and

noncommissioned shopping environment. U.S. Best Buy stores compete by

aggressively advertising and emphasizing a broad product assortment, value

pricing and financing alternatives. In addition, we believe Best Buy’s

e-commerce operations, coupled with the knowledgeable sales associates and

service capabilities of U.S. Best Buy retail stores, have effectively

positioned us to compete successfully, despite an increasingly competitive

environment.

Magnolia Hi-Fi

Overview

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, we acquired Seattle-based

Magnolia Hi-Fi, a retailer of high-end consumer electronics, founded in 1954.

At the end of fiscal 2003, Magnolia Hi-Fi operated 19 stores in Washington,

Oregon and California that average approximately 10,000 retail square feet and

generate average annual revenue per store of $6.9 million. Collectively,

Magnolia Hi-Fi stores represent approximately 189,000 retail square feet, less

than 1% of our total retail square footage.

The following table reconciles Magnolia Hi-Fi stores open at the

beginning and end of each fiscal year since the date of acquisition:

*As of the date of acquisition, December 15, 2000

Merchandise

Magnolia

Hi-Fi stores offer merchandise in three product categories: consumer

electronics, home office and “other” products. 

Consumer electronics, the largest product category based on revenue,

consists of video and audio equipment. Video products include television sets,

DVD players, digital cameras, digital camcorders, mobile video, VCRs, digital

broadcast satellite systems and video accessories.  Audio products include home receivers and amplifiers, home

speakers, shelf systems, portable audio equipment, audio accessories, car

stereos and car security systems.  The

home office category includes telephones and wireless communication

devices.  The “other” product category

includes extended service contracts, customer equipment repairs, and in-home

and automobile installation labor and parts.

The following table presents Magnolia Hi-Fi revenue, by product

category, as a percentage of total Magnolia Hi-Fi revenue:

Operations

Magnolia Hi-Fi stores are typically managed by a store manager, an

audio/video sales manager and a mobile electronics sales manager. Magnolia Hi–Fi

stores are generally open 72 hours a week, seven days a week. Depending on an

individual store’s volume, store staffing includes eight to 25 commissioned

sales personnel, two to six commissioned mobile electronics installers, one to

six digital products sales personnel, cashiers and warehouse personnel.

Advertising, merchandise buying and pricing, and inventory policies for

Magnolia Hi-Fi stores are centrally controlled.


Distribution

Magnolia

Hi-Fi’s merchandise is received and warehoused at its distribution center in

Washington or at its regional warehouse in California. All inventory is bar

coded and scanned to ensure accurate inventory tracking. In addition, a

computerized inventory replenishment program is used to maintain optimal

inventory levels at each retail store.

Merchandise is delivered to retail stores an average

of three times each week via Magnolia Hi-Fi’s in-house distribution system.

Seasonality

Similar

to many retailers, Magnolia Hi-Fi’s business is seasonal. Revenue and earnings

are typically greater during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes

the holiday selling season.

Competition

Magnolia Hi-Fi competes with a variety of national, regional and local

retailers, including large consumer electronics superstores, mass merchants and

small specialty stores.

Magnolia Hi-Fi has positioned itself between large mass merchants and

high-end specialty boutiques. We believe Magnolia Hi-Fi’s quality product

offerings, extensively trained sales staff and focus on exceptional customer

service both before and after the sale, in combination with the leveraging of

U.S. Best Buy stores’ core competencies, effectively position Magnolia Hi-Fi to

meet current and future competitive challenges.

International Segment

Overview

The International segment

was established in connection with our acquisition of Future Shop in November

of fiscal 2002. At the end of fiscal 2003, the International segment consisted

of 104 Future Shop stores in all Canadian provinces and eight Canadian Best Buy

stores in Ontario.  Collectively,

International stores generate average annual revenue of approximately

$16.0 million per store and represent approximately 2.4 million

retail square feet, or 9% of our total retail square footage.

The Future Shop

acquisition accelerated our international expansion plans and provided us with

an opportunity to increase revenue, gain market share and leverage our

operational expertise. We continue to build on Future Shop’s position as the

leading consumer electronics retailer in Canada.  During fiscal 2003, we opened nine new Future Shop stores.  These new stores strengthen our presence in

Ontario, British Columbia and Quebec. In addition to investments in new store

openings, we also enhanced the Future Shop Web site.  The Web site provides an increasingly important avenue for

reaching consumers and enhancing the Future Shop brand in Canada.

The primary objective of

our International segment in fiscal 2003 was launching our dual-branding

strategy in Canada.  We introduced the

Best Buy brand in Canada by opening eight Best Buy stores in the Toronto,

Ontario market. The Canadian Best Buy stores are similar to the U.S. Best Buy

stores and appeal to technology and entertainment enthusiasts who enjoy the

interactive shopping experience and grab-and-go convenience for which Best Buy

is known. As we increase the presence of Best Buy stores in Canada, we expect

to gain operating efficiencies through the leveraging of our capital

investments, supply chain management, advertising, merchandising and

administrative functions.

The dual-branding

strategy was designed to retain Future Shop’s brand equity and attract more

customers by offering a choice of store experiences. Our goal is to reach

differentiated customers with each brand by giving them the unique shopping

experiences they desire. The primary differences between the two brands are:

In-store

experience

– The customer’s interaction with store employees

is different at each of the two brands. Future Shop has commissioned sales

associates who take a more proactive role in assisting customers. Through their

expertise and attentiveness, the sales associate drives the transaction.  In contrast, Canadian Best Buy store

employees are noncommissioned, and the stores offer more interactive displays

and grab-and-go merchandising.  This

design allows the customer to drive the transaction as they experience the

products themselves, with store employees available to provide product

information and explain product features.

Store

size

– The average Future Shop store is approximately 21,000

retail square feet, compared with an average of approximately 28,000 retail

square feet for Canadian Best Buy stores. 

Canadian Best Buy stores generally have wider aisles, with more square

footage devoted to entertainment software.

Additional information

regarding our International segment is included in Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition beginning on page 28

of our Annual Report, incorporated herein by reference. In addition, selected

International segment financial data is included in note 10 of the Notes to

Consolidated Financial Statements on page 62 of our Annual Report, incorporated

herein by reference.

Reference is also made to Part II, Item 7A., “Quantitative and

Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of this report for a discussion

regarding the risks associated with foreign operations.

The following table reconciles Future Shop stores open at the beginning

and end of each fiscal year since the date of acquisition:

*As of the date of acquisition, November 4, 2001

The following table reconciles Canadian Best Buy stores open at the

beginning and end of each fiscal year since inception of the International

segment:

Merchandise

International stores generally offer merchandise in five product

categories: consumer electronics, home office, entertainment software,

appliances and “other” products. Home office, the largest product category

based on revenue, includes desktop and notebook computers and related

peripheral equipment, telephones, wireless communication devices and personal

digital assistants. The consumer electronics category consists of video and

audio equipment. Video products include television sets, DVD players, cameras,

camcorders, VCRs and digital broadcast satellite systems. Audio products

include car stereos, portable audio equipment, home theater


audio systems, audio components, shelf systems and speakers.

Entertainment software products include compact discs, video game hardware and

software, DVD and VHS movies, and computer software. The appliance category

includes washers, dryers, ranges, refrigerators, freezers and dishwashers, as

well as vacuums, microwaves and housewares. The “other” product category

includes extended service contracts, blank recording media, furniture and other

miscellaneous products such as batteries, business cases and storage products.

Although the two store brands carry similar product categories, there

are differences in product brands and depth of selection within product

categories.  On average, less than 55

percent of the product assortment overlaps (excluding entertainment software)

between the two store brands.

The following table presents International revenue, by product

category, as a percentage of total International revenue:

* Subsequent to the date of acquisition, November 4, 2001

Operations

International stores use a standardized operating system. The operating

system includes procedures for inventory management, transaction processing,

customer relations, store administration, staff training and performance

appraisal as well as merchandise display. Advertising, merchandise buying and

pricing, and inventory policies are centrally controlled.

International store operations are organized into divisions, each

headed by a vice president. Each vice president has regional management who

closely monitor store operations and meet regularly with store managers to

review management and staff training programs, customer feedback and requests,

store operating performance and other matters. Meetings involving store

management, product managers, advertising, financial and administrative staff,

as well as senior regional and global headquarters personnel, are held

quarterly to review operating results and to establish future objectives.

International stores are generally open 60 to 75 hours a week, seven

days a week. A typical store is staffed by a general manager, several

department sales managers, a customer service manager and on average 39

full-time staff associates, as well as part-time associates. The number of

full-time staff associates is dependent upon store size, sales volume and store

brand.

Distribution

The majority of International stores’

merchandise, except for appliances, is shipped directly from suppliers to

distribution centers in British Columbia and Ontario. Contract carriers ship

merchandise from the distribution centers to retail stores. The majority of

appliance sales are delivered by third-party distributors. International stores

are dependent upon the distribution centers for inventory storage and shipment

of most merchandise. However, in order to meet release dates for selected

products and to improve inventory management, certain merchandise is shipped

directly to the stores from manufacturers and distributors. International

stores typically receive product shipments twice a week, with accelerated

shipments during periods of high sales volume.

Seasonality

Similar to many retailers, the International segment’s business is

seasonal. Revenue and earnings are typically greater during the second half of

the fiscal year, which includes the holiday selling season.

Competition

The Canadian marketplace is highly competitive and highly fragmented.

International stores compete against other consumer electronics retailers,

specialty home office retailers, mass merchants, home improvement superstores

and a growing number of direct-to-consumer alternatives. International stores

also compete against independent dealers, regional chain discount stores,

wholesale clubs, mail-order and Internet retailers, video rental stores and

other specialty retail stores. Mass merchandisers continue to increase their

assortment of consumer electronics products — primarily those that are less

complex to sell, install and operate. Similarly, large home improvement

retailers are expanding their assortment of appliances. In addition, consumers

are increasingly downloading entertainment and computer software directly via

the Internet.

We believe our International segment’s price

leadership, large product assortment, focus on customer service and

complementary e-commerce operations effectively positions us to meet current

and future competitive conditions.

Discontinued Operations

Overview

Musicland, which was acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, is

a national retailer of movies, prerecorded music, video gaming merchandise and

other entertainment–related products. Its mall-based stores include the

Sam Goody and Suncoast brands. Musicland also operates large–format Media

Play stores in urban and suburban areas, and Sam Goody Rural (formerly known as

On Cue) stores in small or rural cities. At the end of fiscal 2003, Musicland

operated 1,195 stores in 48 states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin

Islands and Puerto Rico, with 8.3 million retail square feet.

Additional information regarding Discontinued Operations is included in

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial

Condition beginning on page 29 of our Annual Report, incorporated herein by

reference. In addition, selected Musicland financial data is included in note 2

of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 52 of our

Annual Report, incorporated herein by reference.

The following is a general overview of Musicland’s four retail store

concepts:

Sam

Goody Mall

– Sam Goody Mall stores average approximately

5,100 retail square feet. At the end of fiscal 2003, there were 505 Sam Goody

Mall stores in 46 states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands and

Puerto Rico. The retail square footage of Sam Goody Mall stores was

approximately 2.6 million square feet. Sam Goody Mall stores average

approximately $1.1 million in annual revenue per location.  During fiscal 2003, Musicland opened 13 and

closed 123 Sam Goody Mall stores.


Suncoast

–

Suncoast

stores are

mall-based and average approximately 2,400 retail square feet. At the end of

fiscal 2003, there were 383 Suncoast stores in 47 states and Puerto Rico. The

retail square footage of Suncoast stores was approximately 900,000 square feet.

Suncoast stores average approximately $1.1 million in annual revenue per

location. During fiscal 2003, Musicland opened 10 and closed 25 Suncoast

stores.

Sam

Goody Rural

– In fiscal 2003, Musicland began changing the

name of On Cue stores to the Sam Goody name as the result of brand recognition

research conducted during fiscal 2002. 

Sam Goody Rural stores are located in small or rural cities, generally

with populations of 10,000 to 30,000 people, and average approximately 5,900

retail square feet. At the end of fiscal 2003, there were 231 Sam Goody Rural

stores in 33 states with total retail square footage of approximately

1.4 million square feet. Sam Goody Rural stores average approximately

$700,000 in annual revenue per location. 

During fiscal 2003, Musicland opened 19 and closed 20 Sam Goody Rural

stores.

Media Play –

Media

Play is a superstore format retailer located in metropolitan markets. Media

Play stores operate primarily in freestanding and strip mall locations in urban

and suburban areas and average approximately 45,300 retail square feet. At the

end of fiscal 2003, there were 76 Media Play stores in 19 states with total

retail square footage of approximately 3.4 million square feet. Media Play

stores average approximately $6.4 million in annual revenue per location.  During fiscal 2003, Musicland did not open

or close any Media Play stores.

The following table reconciles Musicland stores open at the beginning

and end of each fiscal year since the date of acquisition:

*As of the date of acquisition, January 31, 2001

Merchandise

The following is an overview of the merchandise offered at each of

Musicland’s four retail store concepts:

Sam Goody Mall

-

Sam Goody Mall

stores generally offer a wide assortment of entertainment products including

compact disks, music, DVDs, books, computer software, electronics, video games

and music-inspired apparel.

Suncoast

-

Suncoast stores

feature newly released and classic movies, special interest videos and video

recordings of popular TV shows. Complementary products include apparel, posters

and other products inspired by new releases, as well as blank videotapes,

storage cases and other video-related accessories.

Sam Goody Rural -

Sam Goody Rural

stores generally offer a wide assortment of entertainment products including

compact disks, music, DVDs, books, computer software, electronics, video games

and music-inspired apparel.

Media Play

-

Media Play offers

a large assortment of entertainment products including movies, music, books,

computer software, video games, electronics, musical instruments and toys.

The following table presents Musicland revenue, by product category, as

a percentage of total Musicland revenue:

Operations

Sam Goody Mall, Suncoast and Sam Goody Rural stores are typically

managed by a store manager and an assistant manager. Media Play stores are

typically managed by a general manager, an assistant general manager and three

to five department managers. Most Musicland stores are open 65 to 80 hours

per week, seven days a week, depending on mall hours. Store staffing levels

fluctuate with the size of the store and anticipated sales volume. Advertising,

merchandise buying and pricing, and inventory policies for Musicland stores are

centrally controlled.

Distribution

The majority of Musicland’s inventory is shipped from its distribution

center located in Indiana. From time to time, in order to meet release dates

for selected products and to improve inventory management, certain merchandise

is shipped directly to the stores from manufacturers and distributors.

Seasonality

Similar to many retailers, Musicland’s business is seasonal. Revenue

and earnings are typically greater during the second half of the fiscal year,

which includes the holiday selling season.

Competition

Musicland’s industry is highly competitive. Increased downloading of

entertainment and computer software directly via the Internet, the progression

of CD recording technology and slumping music sales all have led to more

intense competitive conditions. Musicland retail stores also compete with

specialty retail chains, mass merchants, bookstores and consumer electronics

stores, as well as video rental stores, mail order clubs and various

Internet-based retailers.

Our

Employees

At the end of fiscal 2003, we employed approximately 98,000 full-time,

part-time and seasonal employees in our consolidated operations.  This included 87,000 full-time, part-time

and seasonal employees in continuing operations, and approximately 11,000

full-time, part-time and seasonal employees at Musicland.  There are currently no collective bargaining

agreements covering any of our employees with the exception of unions that

represent hourly employees at 10 Musicland stores. We have not experienced a

strike or work stoppage.


Item 2

. Properties.

Stores,

Distribution Centers and Corporate Facilities

The following table summarizes the geographic location of our stores at

the end of fiscal 2003:


Domestic Segment

U.S. Best Buy

Stores

At the end of fiscal 2003, we operated 548 U.S. Best Buy stores

totaling approximately 24.2 million retail square feet.

U.S. Best Buy stores are serviced by the following major distribution

centers:

(1)

The Dinuba, California,

distribution center was expanded from 644,000 square feet to 1,039,000 square

feet during fiscal 2003.

(2)

We recently broke ground on

a new distribution center in Ardmore, Oklahoma. The distribution center will be

located north of the existing location in Ardmore, Oklahoma, and will be owned.

The new distribution center is scheduled to open in fiscal 2005.  The existing location is being replaced in

order to meet the expected increased demand for technology products and

services. The new facility is expected to serve 98 U.S. Best Buy stores when it

initially opens and will have the ability to serve up to 125 U.S. Best Buy

stores in Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri, New Mexico, Oklahoma and

Texas.

(3)

At the end of fiscal 2003, the Edina, Minnesota, distribution

center distributed entertainment software to certain U.S. Best Buy stores.  We are in the process of relocating the

Edina distribution center’s services to our Franklin, Indiana, distribution

center.  Following the transition expected

to be completed in fiscal 2004 and coinciding with the expiration of the

current lease, we will vacate the Edina facility.

In addition, U.S. Best Buy stores lease space in 17 satellite

warehouses in major metropolitan markets for home delivery of major appliances

and large–screen televisions. U.S. Best Buy stores utilize approximately

2.4 million square feet in these warehouses. In the first quarter of

fiscal 2004, we opened an additional 720,000-square-foot owned distribution

center in upstate New York.

Effective March 31, 2003, Best Buy Co., Inc. moved its principal

corporate offices into a new 1.5 million square-foot facility located in

Richfield, Minnesota. The new corporate campus replaces existing owned and

leased corporate office facilities. In addition to owning this new facility, we

continue to own two facilities in Eden Prairie, Minnesota, aggregating 540,000

square feet, which previously served as our principle corporate offices. These

facilities are currently for sale. At the end of fiscal 2003, we also leased an

additional 550,000 square feet of office space in close proximity to the owned

facilities.

Magnolia Hi-Fi

At the end of fiscal 2003, we operated 19 Magnolia Hi-Fi stores

totaling approximately 189,000 retail square feet.

Magnolia Hi-Fi leases an 80,000-square-foot

distribution, warehouse and office facility in Kent, Washington, of which

approximately 54,000 square feet are used for distribution and warehouse

operations, with the remainder dedicated to a service department and corporate

administrative functions. In addition, Magnolia Hi-Fi utilizes a

13,000-square-foot leased regional warehouse in Hayward, California.

International Segment

At the end of

fiscal 2003, we operated 104 Future Shop stores and eight Canadian Best Buy stores

totaling approximately 2.4 million retail square feet.

The operations of

the International segment are serviced by two leased distribution centers

located in Delta, British Columbia, and Brampton, Ontario. The majority of

merchandise, other than appliances, is distributed from these two distribution

centers, which are 255,000 square feet and 434,000 square feet, respectively.

Appliance sales in western Canada are fulfilled by the distribution center in

British Columbia; however, a third-party distributor is used to warehouse and

ship appliance inventory in other parts of Canada, primarily Ontario and

Alberta.

The Brampton

distribution center is expected to be expanded to 978,000 square feet by the

end of fiscal 2005.  In addition a

413,000-square-foot distribution center was purchased in Langley, British

Columbia, during the first quarter of fiscal 2004.  The Langley distribution center will replace the leased Delta

distribution center.  The transition to

the Langley facility is expected to be completed during fiscal 2004.

Corporate offices for the International Segment are located in a

141,000-square-foot leased facility in Burnaby, British Columbia.

Discontinued Operations

At the end of fiscal 2003, we operated 1,195 Musicland stores totaling

approximately 8.3 million retail square feet.

Musicland’s stores are serviced by our distribution facility in

Franklin, Indiana.  For additional

information regarding this facility, refer to the above discussion of U.S. Best

Buy Stores.

Musicland’s corporate offices are located in a 94,000-square-foot owned

facility in Minnetonka, Minnesota.


Operating Leases

Essentially all retail stores and a majority of distribution facilities

are leased. Terms of the lease agreements range up to 20 years. Most of

the leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses.

Additional information regarding operating leases is included in note 7

of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 59 of our Annual

Report, incorporated herein by reference.

Item 3

. Legal Proceedings.

We are involved in various legal proceedings arising during the normal

course of conducting business. The resolution of those proceedings is not

expected to have a material impact on our results of operations and financial

condition.

Our

Executive Officers are as follows:

Bradbury

H. Anderson

has been a director since 1986 and is currently

Best Buy’s Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Anderson assumed the

responsibility of Chief Executive Officer effective June 30, 2002, having

previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer since 1991. Mr.

Anderson has been employed in various capacities with us since 1973.

Richard

M. Schulze

is a founder of Best Buy.  He has been an officer and director from our

inception in 1966 and currently is Chairman of the Board. Effective June 30,

2002, Mr. Schulze relinquished the duties of Chief Executive Officer. Mr.

Schulze is a trustee of the University of St. Thomas, chairman of the board of

governors of the University of St. Thomas Business School and a member of the

President’s Council of Twin Cities Public Television.

Allen U.

Lenzmeier

has been a director since 2001.  Mr. Lenzmeier is currently Best Buy's

President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Lenzmeier joined us in 1984. Prior

to his promotion to his current position, he served as President — Best Buy

Retail Stores from 2001 to 2002 and as Chief Financial Officer and Executive

Vice President from 1991 to 2001. He is a national trustee for the Boys and

Girls Clubs of the Twin Cities and serves on its board of directors.

Thomas

C. Healy

was promoted to President — Best Buy International

in  2001.  Prior to that, he had served as Senior Vice President —

Canadian Operations.  Mr. Healy joined

us in 1990 and has held positions as regional vice president, district manager

and general manager.

Michael

P. Keskey

was promoted to President — Best Buy Retail Stores

in March 2002. Mr. Keskey served as Executive Vice President — Retail Sales

from 2001 to 2002 and as Senior Vice President — Retail Sales from 1997 to

2001. Mr. Keskey joined us in 1988 and has since held various positions.

Brian J.

Dunn

was named Executive Vice President — Retail Sales in

March 2002. Mr. Dunn joined us in 1985 and has held positions as senior vice

president, regional vice president, regional manager, district manager and

store manager.

Marc D.

Gordon

was named Executive Vice President and Chief

Information Officer in 2001. He is responsible for technology and supply chain

management. Mr. Gordon joined us in 1998 as Senior Vice President — Information

Systems and Chief Information Officer. Prior to that, Mr. Gordon had

experience in the retail information systems area, most recently for West

Marine Products, a West Coast–based specialty retailer/wholesaler of

marine products. Mr. Gordon also served as a senior manager with Accenture, a

principal with a Boston management consulting firm and a vice president of

information systems with Timberland Company.

Darren

R. Jackson

was named Executive Vice President — Finance and

Chief Financial Officer in April 2002. Mr. Jackson joined us in 2000 as

Senior Vice President — Finance and Treasurer and was promoted to Chief

Financial Officer in 2001. Prior to that, Mr. Jackson served as chief

financial officer of the Full-Line Store Division at Nordstrom, Inc. from

1998 to 2000 and as chief financial officer of Carson Pirie Scott &

Co. Inc. from 1996 to 1998. A certified public accountant, Mr. Jackson has

14 years of experience in the retailing industry.

Michael

A. Linton

was promoted to Executive Vice President — Consumer

& Brand Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer in March 2002. Mr. Linton

joined us in 1999 as Senior Vice President — Strategic Marketing. Prior to

that, Mr. Linton held positions as vice president of marketing at Remington

Products Corporation, maker of personal care and grooming products; vice

president and general manager of a product category at James River Corporation,

a manufacturer and marketer of consumer products, food and packaging; and a

general manager at Progressive Insurance. Mr. Linton began his career at The

Proctor & Gamble Company.

Michael

London

was promoted to Executive Vice President — General

Merchandise Manager in 2001. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice

President - General Merchandise from 1998 to 2001 and as Vice President -

General Merchandise from 1996 to 1998. Prior to joining us in 1996,

Mr. London was a senior vice president for NordicTrack, a fitness

equipment manufacturer, and executive vice president for Central Tractor

Farm & Country, a specialty farm products retail supplier.

Philip

J. Schoonover

was named Executive Vice President — New

Business Development in February 2002. He was promoted to Executive Vice

President of Digital Technology Solutions in February 2001 after having

served for five years as Senior Vice President - Merchandising. Prior to

joining us in 1995, Mr. Schoonover was an executive vice president for

TOPS Appliance City, a retailer of home appliances and consumer electronics.


John C.

Walden

was

named Executive Vice President — Human

Capital and Leadership in March 2002. Mr. Walden served as President of

BestBuy.com, Inc. from 1999 to 2002. Prior to joining us in 1999, Mr. Walden

served as chief operating officer of Peapod, Inc., an Internet retailer of

groceries. Mr. Walden has also held executive positions with Ameritech

Corporation, a telecommunications company, and Storage Technology Corporation,

a maker of data storage products. 

Earlier he practiced corporate and securities law with Sidley, Austin,

Brown and Wood LLP.

Susan S.

Hoff

was named Senior Vice President — Public Affairs and

Investor Relations Officer in 2000. Since joining us in 1983, Ms. Hoff has

served in various capacities including Vice President of Corporate

Communications and Public Relations. She is the daughter of Founder and

Chairman Richard M. Schulze.

Joseph

M. Joyce

was promoted to Senior Vice President — General

Counsel and Assistant Secretary in 1997. 

Mr. Joyce joined us in 1991 as Vice President — Human Resources and

General Counsel.  Prior to joining us,

Mr. Joyce was with Tonka Corporation, a toy maker, having most recently served

as vice president, secretary and general counsel.

Bruce H.

Besanko

joined us in April 2002 as Vice President —

Finance/Planning & Performance Management. 

Prior to joining us, he spent approximately six years with Sears serving

in positions of increasing responsibility. 

Mr. Besanko also brings finance and treasury experience from Atlantic

Richfield Company and more than eight years of service in the United States Air

Force in various leadership roles.

Item 4

. Submission

of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

None.

PART II

Item 5

. Market for

Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.

The information

set forth under the caption “Common Stock Prices” on page 40 of the Annual

Report is incorporated herein by reference.

The information set forth under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan

Information” on page 20 of the Proxy Statement, regarding securities authorized

for issuance under equity compensation plans, is incorporated herein by

reference.

Item 6

. Selected Financial Data.

The information set forth under the caption “11-Year Financial

Highlights” on pages 18 and 19 of the Annual Report, for the fiscal years 1999

through 2003 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7

. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial

Condition and Results of Operation.

The information given under the caption “Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” on pages 20 through

41 of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A

.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Our debt is not subject to material interest-rate volatility risk. The

rates on a substantial portion of our debt may be reset, but may not be more

than one percentage point higher than the current rates. If the rates on the

debt were to be reset one percentage point higher, our annual interest expense

would increase by approximately $8 million. We do not currently manage the risk

through the use of derivative instruments.

We have market risk arising from changes in foreign currency exchange

rates as a result of our acquisition of Future Shop in Canada in November 2001.

At this time, we do not manage the risk through the use of derivative

instruments. A 10% adverse change in the foreign currency exchange rate would

not have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial

position.


Item 8

. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The financial statements required by this Item, listed below, are

included in the Annual Report on the pages indicated below and are expressly

incorporated herein by reference.

The information

set forth under the caption “Quarterly Results and Seasonality,” on pages 38-39

of the Annual Report, providing supplementary selected quarterly financial

data, is incorporated herein by reference.


Condensed

Consolidating Financial Information

Our convertible debentures are guaranteed by Best Buy Stores, L.P., our

wholly-owned indirect subsidiary.  The

aggregate principal amount at maturity of these convertible debentures is $894

million.  The carrying value of the

convertible debentures at March 1, 2003, was approximately $749 million.

Additional information regarding the convertible debentures is included

in note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page

54 of the Annual Report, incorporated herein by reference.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, we committed to a plan to

sell our interest in Musicland, which is included in Non-Guarantor

Subsidiaries.  At March 1, 2003, Best

Buy Co., Inc. had an intercompany receivable from Musicland totaling $350

million, included in current assets. 

Additional information regarding Musicland is included in note 2 of the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 52 of the Annual

Report, incorporated herein by reference.

The following tables present condensed consolidating balance sheets for

the fiscal years ended March 1, 2003, and March 2, 2002, and condensed

consolidating statements of earnings and cash flows for the fiscal years ended

March 1, 2003; March 2, 2002; and March 3, 2001:

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets

As of March 1, 2003

$ in millions


Condensed Consolidating Balance

Sheets

As of March 2, 2002

$ in millions


Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings

For the Fiscal Year Ended March 1, 2003

$ in millions

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings

For the Fiscal Year Ended March 2, 2002

$ in millions


Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings

For the Fiscal Year Ended March 3, 2001

$ in millions

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows

For the Fiscal Year Ended March 1, 2003

$ in millions


Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows

For the Fiscal Year Ended March 2, 2002

$ in millions

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows

For the Fiscal Year Ended March 3, 2001

$ in millions

Item 9

. Changes in

and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

None.

PART

III

Item 10

. Directors

and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

The information provided under the captions “Security Ownership of

Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Nominees and Directors” on pages

6 through 10 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. The

information provided under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership

Reporting


Compliance” on page 23 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by

reference.

Item 11

. Executive

Compensation.

The information set forth under the caption “Executive Compensation” on

pages 12 through 20 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 12

. Security

Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder

Matters.

The information provided under the caption “Security Ownership of

Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” on pages 6 through 8 of the Proxy

Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

The information set forth under the caption “Equity Compensation Plan

Information” on page 20 of the Proxy Statement, regarding securities authorized

for issuance under equity compensation plans, is incorporated herein by

reference.

Item 13

. Certain

Relationships and Related Transactions.

The information provided under the captions “Nominees and Directors”

and “Certain Transactions” on pages 9 through 11 of the Proxy Statement is

incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14

. Controls

and Procedures.

a.

Evaluation of

disclosure controls and procedures

The term “disclosure controls and procedures” is

defined in Rules 13a-14(c) and 15d-14(c) of the Exchange Act. These Rules refer

to the controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure

that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it

files under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported

within required time periods. Our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief

Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls

and procedures as of a date within 90 days before the filing of this report

(“Evaluation Date”), and they have concluded that, as of the Evaluation Date,

such controls and procedures were effective at ensuring that required

information will be disclosed on a timely basis in our reports filed under the

Exchange Act.

b.

Changes in internal

controls

We maintain a system of internal accounting controls

that is designed to provide reasonable assurance that our books and records

accurately reflect our transactions and that our established policies and

procedures are followed. There have been no significant changes to our internal

controls or in other factors that could significantly affect our internal controls

subsequent to the date the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer

completed their evaluation thereof.

PART IV

Item 15

. Exhibits,

Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.


3.

Exhibits:

(1)

Document

is filed herewith.

(2)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on

May 24, 1995, as an exhibit to the Form 10-K of Best Buy

Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.

(3)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on May 20, 1994, as an exhibit to the

Form 10-K of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by reference and

made a part hereof.

(4)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on Nov. 12, 1991, as an exhibit to the

Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 33-43065) of

Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by reference and made a

part hereof.

(5)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on Jan. 13, 1992, as an exhibit to the

Form 10-Q of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by

reference and made a part hereof.

(6)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on May 28, 1997, as an exhibit to the

Form 10-K of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by

reference and made a part hereof.

(7)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on April 29, 1999, as an exhibit to the

preliminary Proxy Statement of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated

herein by reference and made a part hereof.

(8)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2002, as an exhibit to the

Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-83562) of Best Buy

Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.

(9)

Exhibit

so marked was filed on August 20, 1998, as an exhibit to the Registration

Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-61897) of Best Buy

Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.

(10)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on October 10, 2000, as an exhibit to the

Form 10-Q of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by

reference and made a part hereof.

(11)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on May 27, 1999, as an exhibit to the

Form 10-K of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by

reference and made a part hereof.

(12)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on January 11, 2000, as an exhibit to the

Form 10-Q of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by

reference and made a part hereof.

(13)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on February 23, 2001, as an exhibit to

the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-56146)

of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by reference and made a

part hereof.


(14)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on June 1, 2001, as an exhibit to the

Form 10-K of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by

reference and made a part hereof.

(15)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on September 24, 2001, as an exhibit to the

Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-70060) of Best Buy

Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.

(16)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on May 30, 2002, as an exhibit to the

Form 10-K of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by

reference and made a part hereof.

(17)

Exhibit

so marked was filed with the SEC on July 12, 1999, as an exhibit to the

Form 10-Q of Best Buy Co., Inc., and is incorporated herein by

reference and made a part hereof.

Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of

Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, the Registrant has not

filed as exhibits to the Form 10-K certain instruments with respect to

long-term debt under which the amount of securities authorized does not exceed

10% of the total assets of the Registrant. The Registrant hereby agrees to

furnish copies of all such instruments to the Commission upon request.

(b)

Reports

on Form 8-K:

(1)

Announcement

that we expect to realign our Musicland business into our domestic Best Buy

stores operations; the position of Musicland president has been eliminated; and

Kevin Freeland, the former president of Musicland, has left the company, filed

on January 10, 2003.

(2)

Filing

of amended and restated cautionary statements for purposes of the “safe harbor”

provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and

Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, filed on

January 10, 2003.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of

Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant

has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,

thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: May 29, 2003

Pursuant to the requirements of

the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the

following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated

on May 29, 2003.


CERTIFICATIONS

Date: May 29, 2003

/s/ Bradbury H. Anderson

Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


CERTIFICATIONS

Date: May 29, 2003

/s/ Darren R. Jackson

Executive Vice President — Finance and Chief

  Financial Officer


Schedule II

Valuation and Qualifying

Accounts

($ in millions)

* Includes bad debt write-offs and recoveries, as well as reserves

associated with acquired companies.

** Includes Musicland balances of $1, $1, and $0 at March 1, 2003,

March 2, 2002 and March 3, 2001, respectively.

28