ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

We are a leading independent owner and operator of wireless communications towers. Our principal operations are in the continental United
States. In addition, we have towers in Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Our principal business line is our site leasing business, which contributed 97.4% of our total segment operating profit for the year ended December 31,
2009. In our site leasing business, we lease antenna space primarily to wireless service providers on towers and other structures that we own, manage or lease from others. The towers that we own have been constructed by us at the request of a
wireless service provider, constructed based on our own initiative or acquired. As of December 31, 2009, we owned 8,324 tower sites, the substantial majority of which have been built by us or built by other tower owners or operators who, like
us, have built such towers to lease space to multiple wireless service providers. We also manage or lease approximately 5,100 actual or potential communications sites, approximately 550 of which were revenue producing as of December 31, 2009.
Our other business line is our site development business, through which we assist wireless service providers in developing and maintaining their own wireless service networks.

Site Leasing Services

Our primary focus is the leasing of antenna space on
our multi-tenant towers to a variety of wireless service providers under long-term lease contracts. Site leasing revenues are received primarily from wireless service provider tenants, including AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless.
Wireless service providers enter into numerous different tenant leases with us, each of which relates to the lease or use of space at an individual tower site. Tenant leases are generally for an initial term of five years with five 5-year renewal
periods at the option of the tenant. These tenant leases typically contain specific rent escalators, which average 3%–4% per year, including the renewal option periods.

In our new build program, we construct towers in locations that were strategically chosen by us or under build-to-suit arrangements. Under
build-to-suit arrangements, we build towers for wireless service providers at locations that they have identified. We retain ownership of the tower and the exclusive right to co-locate additional tenants on the tower. When we construct towers in
locations chosen by us, we utilize our knowledge of our customers’ network requirements to identify locations where we believe multiple wireless service providers need, or will need, to locate antennas to meet capacity or service demands. We
seek to identify attractive locations for new towers and complete pre-construction procedures necessary to secure the site concurrently with our leasing efforts. We intend to have at least one signed tenant lease on each new build tower on the day
that it is completed and expect that some will have multiple tenants. We intend to build at least 120 - 140 new towers during 2010.

In our tower acquisition program, we pursue towers that meet or exceed our internal guidelines regarding current and future potential returns. For each acquisition, we prepare various analyses that include projections of a five-year
unlevered internal rate of return, review of available capacity, future lease up projections and a summary of current and future tenant/technology mix.







The table below provides information regarding the development and status of our tower sites
portfolio over the past three years.



For the year ended December 31,200720082009Towers owned at beginning of period5,5516,2207,854Towers acquired(1)6121,560376Towers constructed6185101Towers reclassified/disposed of(2)(4)(11)(7)Towers owned at end of period6,2207,8548,324



(1)2008 includes 528 towers acquired in the Optasite acquisition, 423 towers acquired in the Tower Co. acquisition and 340 towers acquired in the Light Tower acquisition.

(2)Reclassifications reflect the combination for reporting purposes of multiple tower structures on a single parcel of real estate, which we market and customers view as a
single location, into a single owned tower site. Dispositions reflect the decommissioning, sale, conveyance or other legal transfer of owned tower sites.

As of December 31, 2009, we had an average of 2.5 tenants per tower.

Our
site leasing business generates substantially all of our total segment operating profit. Our site leasing business generated 85.9% of our total revenues during the past year and has represented 95.5% or more of our total segment operating profit for
the past three years.

Site Development Services

Our site development business is complementary to our site leasing business, and provides us the ability to keep in close contact with the wireless service providers who generate substantially all of our
site leasing revenue and capture ancillary revenues that are generated by our site leasing activities, such as antenna and equipment installation at our tower locations. Our site development business consists of two segments, site development
consulting and site development construction. Site development services revenues are received primarily from providing a full range of end to end services to wireless service providers or companies providing development or project management
services to wireless service providers. We principally perform services for third parties in our core historical areas of wireless expertise, specifically site acquisition, zoning, technical services and construction.

In the consulting segment of our site development business, we offer clients the following range of services: (1) network pre-design;
(2) site audits; (3) identification of potential locations for towers and antennas; (4) support in buying or leasing of the location; and (5) assistance in obtaining zoning approvals and permits. In the construction segment of
our site development business we provide a number of services, including, but not limited to the following: (1) tower and related site construction; (2) antenna installation; and (3) radio equipment installation, commissioning and
maintenance. Personnel in our site development business also support our leasing and new tower build functions through an integrated plan across the divisions.







We provide our site development consulting and construction services on a local basis,
through regional offices, territory offices and project offices. The regional offices are responsible for all site development operations, including hiring employees and opening or closing project offices, and a substantial portion of the sales in
such area.

For financial information about our operating segments, please see Note 23 of our Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this Form 10-K.

Industry Overview

Business Strategy

Our
primary strategy is to capture the maximum benefits from our position as a leading owner and operator of wireless communications towers. Key elements of our strategy include:

Focusing on our Site Leasing Business with Stable, Recurring Revenues.We intend to continue to focus on expanding our site leasing
business due to its attractive characteristics such as long-term contracts, built-in rent escalators, high operating margins and low customer churn. The long-term nature of the revenue stream of our site leasing business makes it less volatile than
our site development business, which is more cyclical. By focusing on our site leasing business, we believe that we can maintain a stable, recurring cash flow stream and reduce our exposure to cyclical changes in customer spending.

Maximizing Use of Tower Capacity.We generally have constructed or acquired towers that accommodate multiple tenants and a
substantial majority of our towers are high capacity lattice or guyed towers. Most of our towers have significant capacity available for additional antennas and we believe that increased use of our towers can be achieved at a low incremental cost.
We actively market space on our towers through our internal sales force.

Disciplined Growth of our Tower Portfolio.During 2010, we intend to grow our tower portfolio, domestically and internationally, by 5% to 10%. We intend to use our available cash from operating activities and available liquidity, including borrowings, to build and/or acquire new towers
at prices that we believe will be







accretive to our shareholders both short and long term and which allow us to maintain our long-term target leverage ratios. Furthermore, we believe that our tower operations are highly scalable.
Consequently, we believe that we are able to materially increase our tower portfolio without proportionately increasing selling, general and administrative expenses.

Controlling our Underlying Land Positions. We have purchased and intend to continue to purchase and/or enter into long-term leases for the land that underlies our towers, to the extent available at
commercially reasonable prices. We believe that these purchases and/or long-term leases will increase our margins, improve our cash flow from operations and minimize our exposure to increases in ground lease rents in the future. As of
December 31, 2009, we own or control, for a minimum period of fifty years, land under 27.6% of our communication sites.

Using our Local Presence to Build Strong Relationships with Major Wireless Service Providers.Given the nature of towers as location specific communications facilities, we believe that substantially all of what we do is done best
locally. Consequently, we have a broad field organization that allows us to develop and capitalize on our experience, expertise and relationships in each of our local markets which in turn enhances our customer relationships. Due to our presence in
local markets, we believe we are well positioned to capture additional site leasing business and new tower build opportunities in our markets and identify and participate in site development projects across our markets.

Capitalizing on our Management Experience.Our management team has extensive experience in site leasing and site development.
Management believes that its industry expertise and strong relationships with wireless service providers will allow us to expand our position as a leading provider of site leasing and site development services.

Customers

Since commencing
operations, we have performed site leasing and site development services for all of the large wireless service providers. In both our site development and site leasing businesses, we work with large national providers and smaller regional, local or
private operators.







We depend on a relatively small number of customers for our site leasing and site
development revenues. The following customers represented at least 10% of our total revenues during at least one of the last three years:



Percentage of Total Revenuesfor the year ended December 31,200720082009AT&T(1)22.9%23.1%23.8%Sprint(2)32.6%25.0%21.9%Verizon Wireless(3)13.6%15.6%15.4%T-Mobile7.5%11.2%13.7%



(1)2007 and 2008 numbers have been restated due to 2009 merger of AT&T and Centennial

(2)2007 and 2008 numbers have been restated due to 2009 merger of Sprint and IPCS Wireless

(3)2007 and 2008 numbers have been restated due to 2009 merger of Verizon and Alltel

During the past two years, we provided services for a number of customers, including:



AircellMotorolaAT&TNokia-SiemensBechtel CorporationNortelCellular SouthNorthrop GrummanClearwireNsoroEricssonNYSEGFibertowerPocket CommunicationGeneral DynamicsSamsungGoodman NetworksSprintLeap WirelessT-MobileM/A-COMU.S. CellularMediaFLOVerizon WirelessMetro PCS

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing goals are to:



•use existing relationships and develop new relationships with wireless service providers to lease antenna space on and sell related services with
respect to our owned or managed towers, enabling us to grow our site leasing business; and



•successfully bid and win those site development services contracts that will contribute to our operating margins and/or provide a financial or
strategic benefit to our site leasing business.

We approach sales on a company-wide basis, involving many
of our employees. We have a dedicated sales force that is supplemented by members of our executive management team. Our dedicated salespeople are based regionally as well as in the corporate office. We also rely on our regional vice presidents,
general managers and other operations personnel to sell our services and cultivate customers. Our strategy is to delegate sales efforts to those employees of ours who have the best relationships with our customers. Most wireless service providers
have national corporate headquarters with regional and local offices. We believe that wireless service providers make most decisions for site development and site leasing services at the regional and local levels with input from their







corporate headquarters. Our sales representatives work with wireless service provider representatives at the
regional and local levels and at the national level when appropriate. Our sales staff compensation is heavily weighted to incentive-based goals and measurements.

Our primary marketing and sales support is centralized and directed from our headquarters office in Boca Raton, Florida and is supplemented by our regional and territory offices. We have a full-time staff
dedicated to our marketing and sales efforts. The marketing and sales support staff is charged with implementing our marketing strategies, prospecting and producing sales presentation materials and proposals. In addition to our marketing and sales
staff, we rely upon our executive and operations personnel at the regional and local office levels to identify sales opportunities within existing customer accounts.

Competition

Site Leasing– Our primary competitors for our
site leasing activities are (1) the national independent tower companies, American Tower Corporation, Crown Castle International and Global Tower Partners, (2) a large number of regional independent tower owners, (3) wireless service
providers that own and operate their own towers and lease, or may in the future decide to lease, antenna space to other providers and (4) alternative facilities such as rooftops, outdoor and indoor distributed antenna system (“DAS”)
networks, billboards and electric transmission towers. There has been significant consolidation among the large independent tower companies in the past five years. Specifically, American Tower completed its merger with SpectraSite, Inc. in 2005, we
completed our acquisition of AAT Communications Corporation in 2006 and Crown Castle completed its merger with Global Signal, Inc. in 2007. As a result of these consolidations, American Tower and Crown Castle have substantially more towers and
greater financial resources than we do. Wireless service providers that own and operate their own tower networks are also generally larger and have greater financial resources than we do. We believe that tower location and capacity, quality of
service to our tenants, and, to a lesser extent, price have been and will continue to be the most significant competitive factors affecting the site leasing business.

Site Development– The site development business is extremely competitive and price sensitive. We believe that the majority of our competitors in the site development business operate within
local market areas exclusively, while some firms appear to offer their services nationally, including Bechtel Corporation, Black & Veatch Corporation, Goodman Networks, General Dynamics Corporation, Nsoro, and Wireless Facilities, Inc. The
market includes participants from a variety of market segments offering individual, or combinations of, competing services. The field of competitors includes site development consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way
consulting firms, construction companies, tower owners/managers, radio frequency engineering consultants, telecommunications equipment vendors, which provide end-to-end site development services through multiple subcontractors, and wireless service
providers’ internal staff. We believe that providers base their decisions for site development services on a number of criteria, including: company experience, price, track record, local reputation, geographic reach and time for completion of a
project.

Employees

Our executive, corporate development, accounting, finance, human resources, legal and regulatory, information technology and site administration personnel, and our network operations center are located in our headquarters in Boca Raton,
Florida. Certain sales, new tower build support and tower maintenance personnel are also located in our Boca Raton office. Our remaining employees are based in our regional and local offices.

As of December 31, 2009, we had 617 employees, none of whom are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our
employee relations to be good.







Regulatory and Environmental Matters

Federal Regulations.Both the FCC and the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”) regulate antenna towers and structures
that support wireless communications and radio or television antennas. Many FAA requirements are implemented in FCC regulations. These regulations govern the construction, lighting and painting or other marking of towers and structures and may,
depending on the characteristics of particular towers or structures, require prior approval and registration of towers or structures before they may be constructed, altered or used. Wireless communications equipment and radio or television stations
operating on towers or structures are separately regulated and may require independent customer licensing depending upon the particular frequency or frequency band used. In addition, any applicant for an FCC antenna tower or structure registration
must certify that, consistent with the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, neither the applicant nor its principals are subject to a denial of Federal benefits because of a conviction for the possession or distribution of a controlled substance.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, the FCC, in conjunction with the FAA, has
developed standards to consider proposals involving new or modified antenna towers or structures. These standards mandate that the FCC and the FAA consider the height of the proposed tower or structure, the relationship of the tower or structure to
existing natural or man-made obstructions and the proximity of the tower or structure to runways and airports. Proposals to construct or to modify existing towers or structures above certain heights must be reviewed by the FAA to ensure the
structure will not present a hazard to air navigation. The FAA may condition its issuance of a no-hazard determination upon compliance with specified lighting and/or painting requirements. Antenna towers that meet certain height and location
criteria must also be registered with the FCC. A tower or structure that requires FAA clearance will not be registered by the FCC until it is cleared by the FAA. Upon registration, the FCC may also require special lighting and/or painting. Owners of
wireless communications antenna towers and structures may have an obligation to maintain painting and lighting or other marking in conformance with FAA and FCC regulations. Antenna tower and structure owners and licensees that operate on those
towers or structures also bear the responsibility of monitoring any lighting systems and notifying the FAA of any lighting outage or malfunction.

Owners and operators of antenna towers and structures may be subject to, and therefore must comply with, environmental laws. Any licensed radio facility on an antenna tower or structure is subject to
environmental review pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, among other statutes, which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impact of their decisions under certain circumstances. The FCC has issued regulations
implementing the National Environmental Policy Act. These regulations place responsibility on applicants to investigate potential environmental effects of their operations and to disclose any potential significant effects on the environment in an
environmental assessment prior to constructing or modifying an antenna tower or structure and prior to commencing certain operations of wireless communications or radio or television stations from the tower or structure. In the event the FCC
determines the proposed structure or operation would have a significant environmental impact based on the standards the FCC has developed, the FCC would be required to prepare an environmental impact statement, which will be subject to public
comment. This process could significantly delay the registration of a particular tower or structure.

We generally indemnify
our customers against any failure to comply with applicable regulatory standards relating to the construction, modification, or placement of antenna towers or structures. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements may lead to civil
penalties.

The Telecommunications Act of 1996 amended the Communications Act of 1934 by preserving state and local zoning
authorities’ jurisdiction over the construction, modification and placement of towers. The law, however, limits local zoning authority by prohibiting any action that would discriminate among different providers of personal wireless services or
ban altogether the construction, modification or placement of radio communication towers. Finally, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires the federal government to help licensees for wireless communications services gain access to preferred
sites for their facilities. This may require







that federal agencies and departments work directly with licensees to make federal property available for
tower facilities.

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to certain environmental laws that impose strict,
joint and several liability for the cleanup of on-site or off-site contamination and related personal or property damage. We are also subject to certain environmental laws that govern tower or structure placement, including pre-construction
environmental studies. Operators of towers or structures must also take into consideration certain radio frequency (“RF”) emissions regulations that impose a variety of procedural and operating requirements. Certain proposals to operate
wireless communications and radio or television stations from antenna towers and structures are also reviewed by the FCC to ensure compliance with requirements relating to human exposure to RF emissions. Exposure to high levels of RF energy can
produce negative health effects. The potential connection between low-level RF energy and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years. We
believe that we are in substantial compliance with and we have no material liability under any applicable environmental laws. These costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and liability related thereto may have a material
adverse effect on our prospects, financial condition or results of operations.

State and Local Regulations.Most
states regulate certain aspects of real estate acquisition, leasing activities and construction activities. Where required, we conduct the site acquisition portions of our site development services business through licensed real estate brokers’
agents, who may be our employees or hired as independent contractors, and conduct the construction portions of our site development services through licensed contractors, who may be our employees or independent contractors. Local regulations include
city and other local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers. These regulations vary greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but typically require tower and structure owners to obtain approval
from local officials or community standards organizations, or certain other entities prior to tower or structure construction and establish regulations regarding maintenance and removal of towers or structures. In addition, many local zoning
authorities require tower and structure owners to post bonds or cash collateral to secure their removal obligations. Local zoning authorities generally have been unreceptive to construction of new antenna towers and structures in their communities
because of the height and visibility of the towers or structures, and have, in some instances, instituted moratoria.

Backlog

Backlog related to our site leasing business consists of lease agreements and amendments, which have been signed, but have
not yet commenced. As of December 31, 2009, we had 344 new leases which had been executed with customers but which had not begun generating revenue. These leases will contractually provide for approximately $7.6 million of annual revenue. By
comparison, at December 31, 2008 we had 338 new leases which had been executed with customers but which had not begun generating revenue. These leases contractually provided for approximately $6.7 million of annual revenue.

Our backlog for site development services consists of the value of work that has not yet been completed on executed contracts. As of
December 31, 2009, we had approximately $13.9 million of contractually committed revenue as compared to approximately $17.4 million as of December 31, 2008.

Availability of Reports and Other Information

Our corporate website iswww.sbasite.com. We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A and amendments to those materials filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 on our website under “Investor Relations—SEC Filings,” as soon as reasonably practicable after we file electronically such material with, or furnish it
to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”). In addition, the Commission’s website iswww.sec.gov.The Commission makes available on this website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information







regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the Commission. Additionally, our reports,
proxy and information statements may be read and copied at the Commission’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 during the hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on official business days. Information regarding the operation of
the public reference room may be obtained by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. Information on our website or the Commission’s website is not part of this document.

