ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

We are a leading
independent owner and operator of wireless communications towers. Our principal operations are in the United States and its territories. In addition, we own towers in Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador and Panama. Our primary business line is our site
leasing business, which contributed 97.5% of our total segment operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2010. In our site leasing business, we lease antenna space primarily to wireless service providers on towers and other structures
that we own, manage or lease from others. The towers that we own have been constructed by us at the request of a wireless service provider, built or constructed based on our own initiative or acquired. As of December 31, 2010, we owned 9,111
tower sites, the substantial majority of which have been built by us or built by other tower owners or operators who, like us, have built such towers to lease space to multiple wireless service providers. We also managed or leased approximately
5,300 actual or potential communications sites, approximately 500 of which were revenue producing as of December 31, 2010. Our other business line is our site development business, through which we assist wireless service providers in
developing and maintaining their own wireless service networks.

Site Leasing Services

Our primary focus is the leasing of antenna space on our multi-tenant towers to a variety of wireless service providers under long-term
lease contracts. Site leasing revenues are received primarily from wireless service provider tenants, including AT&T, Sprint, Verizon Wireless, and T-Mobile. Wireless service providers enter into numerous different tenant leases with us, each of
which relates to the lease or use of space at an individual tower site. Tenant leases are generally for an initial term of five years with five 5-year renewal periods at the option of the tenant. These tenant leases typically contain specific rent
escalators, which average 3% per year, including the renewal option periods.

In our new build program, we construct
towers in locations that were strategically chosen by us or under build-to-suit arrangements. Under build-to-suit arrangements, we build towers for wireless service providers at locations that they have identified. We retain ownership of the tower
and the exclusive right to co-locate additional tenants on the tower. When we construct towers in locations chosen by us, we utilize our knowledge of our customers’ network requirements to identify locations where we believe multiple wireless
service providers need, or will need, to locate antennas to meet capacity or service demands. We seek to identify attractive locations for new towers and complete pre-construction procedures necessary to secure the site concurrently with our leasing
efforts. We generally will have at least one signed tenant lease for each new build tower on the day that it is completed and expect that some will have multiple tenants. During 2011, we intend to build at least 390 to 410 new towers, domestically
and internationally.

In our tower acquisition program, we pursue towers that meet or exceed our internal guidelines regarding
current and future potential returns. For each acquisition, we prepare various analyses that include projections of a five-year unlevered internal rate of return, review of available capacity, future lease up projections and a summary of current and
future tenant/technology mix.







The table below provides information regarding the development and
status of our tower sites portfolio over the past three years.



For the year ended December 31,200820092010Towers owned at beginning of period6,2207,8548,324Towers acquired(1)1,560376712Towers constructed85101124Towers reclassified/disposed of(2)(11)(7)(49)Towers owned at end of period7,8548,3249,111



(1)2008 includes 528 towers acquired in the Optasite acquisition, 423 towers acquired in the Tower Co. acquisition and 340 towers acquired in the Light Tower acquisition.

(2)Reclassifications reflect the combination for reporting purposes of multiple tower structures on a single parcel of real estate, which we market and customers view as a
single location, into a single owned tower site. Dispositions reflect the decommissioning, sale, conveyance or other legal transfer of owned tower sites.

As of December 31, 2010, we had an average of 2.4 tenants per tower.

Our
site leasing business generates substantially all of our total segment operating profit. Our site leasing business generated 85.4% of our total revenues during the year ended December 31, 2010 and has represented 97.4% or more of our total
segment operating profit for the past three years. For the year ended December 31, 2010, site leasing revenues generated outside the U.S. and its territories was less than 1% of total revenue.

Site Development Services

Our site development business is complementary to our site leasing business and provides us the ability to keep in close contact with the
wireless service providers who generate substantially all of our site leasing revenue and to capture ancillary revenues that are generated by our site leasing activities, such as antenna and equipment installation at our tower locations. Our site
development business consists of two segments, site development consulting and site development construction. Site development services revenues are received primarily from providing a full range of end to end services to wireless service providers
or companies providing development or project management services to wireless service providers. We principally perform services for third parties in our core historical areas of wireless expertise, specifically, site acquisition, zoning, technical
services and construction.

In the consulting segment of our site development business, we offer clients the following range
of services: (1) network pre-design; (2) site audits; (3) identification of potential locations for towers and antennas; (4) support in buying or leasing of the location; and (5) assistance in obtaining zoning approvals and
permits. In the construction segment of our site development business we provide a number of services, including, but not limited to the following: (1) tower and related site construction; (2) antenna installation; and (3) radio
equipment installation, commissioning and maintenance. Personnel in our site development business also support our leasing and new tower build functions through an integrated plan across the divisions.

We provide our site development consulting and construction services on a local basis, through regional offices, territory offices and
project offices. The regional offices are responsible for all site development operations, including hiring employees and opening or closing project offices, and a substantial portion of the sales in such area.

For financial information about our operating segments, please see Note 22 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form
10-K.







Industry Overview

We believe that growing wireless traffic (particularly data and video), the successful spectrum auctions and technology developments will require wireless service providers to improve their network
infrastructure and increase their network capacity resulting in an increase in the number of communication sites that they use or the number of antennas at existing communication sites. The following is a discussion of certain growth trends in the
wireless communications industry:



•We believe that our customer’s introduction and continued deployment of next generation wireless technologies including (i) 3G wireless
services and (ii) long-term evolution and WiMAX (or “4G”), will require our customers to add a large number of additional cell sites and increase the amount of their equipment at current cell sites.



•The Federal Communications Commission’s (the “FCC”) successful advanced wireless service spectrum auction 66 during 2006 for advanced
broadband services and the FCC spectrum auction 73 during 2008 relating to the auction of the 700 MHz band, have provided existing carriers the opportunity to deploy spectrum for 3G and 4G wireless service which will further drive the demand for
communication sites. For example, Leap Wireless and Metro PCS acquired spectrum in auction 66 in new coverage areas that have led and continue to lead to the launch of brand new networks while Clearwire is in the process of building out new markets
as well. The current administration under President Barack Obama has made the release of additional wireless spectrum for commercial use in the U.S. a priority, and we believe that when such spectrum is released that it will drive additional demand
for communication sites.



•Consumers continue to increase minutes of use, whether through wireline to wireless migration, increasing use of broadband services or simply talking
more. Consumers are demanding quality wireless networks, and list network coverage and quality as two of the greatest contributors to their dissatisfaction when terminating or changing service. To decrease subscriber churn rate and drive revenue
growth, wireless carriers have made substantial capital expenditures on wireless networks to improve service quality and expand coverage.

Despite the recent recessionary conditions affecting the global marketplace, based on these factors, we believe that the U.S. wireless industry will continue to grow and is well-capitalized, highly
competitive and focused on quality and advanced services. Therefore, we expect that we will see a multi-year trend of strong additional cell site demand from our customers, which we believe will translate into strong leasing growth for us.

We believe that the international wireless markets in which we currently operate will continue to present growth
opportunities for the wireless communications industry as these markets are anticipated to need new towers and communication sites. These markets also typically have limited, but quickly growing, wireline infrastructure and limited wireless data
penetration. Further, some countries, such as Costa Rica, have recently had spectrum auctions that we expect will result in a meaningful build-out of new towers and communication sites. We intend to participate in such activity in these markets
through buying or building towers, managing communication sites and leasing space to wireless service providers on assets we control.

Business Strategy

Our
primary strategy is to continue to focus on expanding our site leasing business due to its attractive characteristics such as long-term contracts, built-in rent escalators, high operating margins and low customer churn. The long-term nature of the
revenue stream of our site leasing business makes it less volatile than our site development business, which is more cyclical. By focusing on our site leasing business, we believe that we can maintain a stable, recurring cash flow stream and reduce
our exposure to cyclical changes in customer spending. Key elements of our strategy include:

Maximizing Use of Tower
Capacity.We generally have constructed or acquired towers that accommodate multiple tenants and a substantial majority of our towers are high capacity lattice or guyed towers. Most of our







towers have significant capacity available for additional antennas and we believe that increased use of our towers can be achieved at a low incremental cost. We actively market space on our
towers through our internal sales force.

Disciplined Growth of our Tower Portfolio.During 2011, we intend to
grow our tower portfolio, domestically and internationally, by 5% to 10%. In connection with our international expansion, we have targeted international markets that we believe have relatively stable political environments and a growing wireless
communication industry. We intend to use our available cash from operating activities and available liquidity, including borrowings, to build and/or acquire new towers at prices that we believe will be accretive to our shareholders both short and
long term and which allow us to maintain our long-term target leverage ratios. Furthermore, we believe that our tower operations are highly scalable. Consequently, we believe that we are able to materially increase our tower portfolio without
proportionately increasing selling, general and administrative expenses.

Capitalizing on our Scale and Management
Experience.We are a large owner, operator and developer of tower and other communication sites, with substantial capital, human and operating resources. We have been developing communication sites for wireless service providers in the
U.S. since 1989 and owned and operated tower sites for ourselves since 1997. We believe our size, experience, capabilities and resources make us a preferred partner for wireless service providers both in the U.S. and internationally. Our management
team has extensive experience in site leasing and site development, with some of the longest tenures in the tower and site development industries. Management believes that its industry expertise and strong relationships with wireless service
providers will allow us to expand our position as a leading provider of site leasing and site development services.

Controlling our Underlying Land Positions. We have purchased and intend to continue to purchase and/or enter into long-term leases
for the land that underlies our towers, to the extent available at commercially reasonable prices. We believe that these purchases and/or long-term leases will increase our margins, improve our cash flow from operations and minimize our exposure to
increases in ground lease rents in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we owned or controlled, for a minimum period of fifty years, land under 31.1% of our communication sites.

Using our Local Presence to Build Strong Relationships with Major Wireless Service Providers.Given the nature of towers as
location specific communications facilities, we believe that substantially all of what we do is done best locally. Consequently, we have a broad field organization that allows us to develop and capitalize on our experience, expertise and
relationships in each of our local markets which in turn enhances our customer relationships. We are seeking to replicate this expertise internationally. Due to our presence in local markets, we believe we are well positioned to capture additional
site leasing business and new tower build opportunities in our markets and identify and participate in site development projects across our markets.

Customers

Since commencing operations, we have performed site leasing and
site development services for all of the large U.S. wireless service providers. In both our site development and site leasing businesses, we work with large national providers and smaller regional, local or private operators.







We depend on a relatively small number of customers for our site leasing and site
development revenues. The following customers represented at least 10% of our total revenues during at least one of the last three years:



Percentage of Total 
RevenuesFor the year ended December 31,200820092010AT&T(1)23.1%23.8%23.9%Sprint(2)25.0%21.9%20.4%Verizon Wireless(3)15.6%15.4%14.8%T-Mobile11.2%13.7%11.6%



(1)2008 numbers have been restated due to 2009 merger of AT&T and Centennial

(2)2008 numbers have been restated due to 2009 merger of Sprint and IPCS Wireless

(3)2008 numbers have been restated due to 2009 merger of Verizon and Alltel

During the past two years, we provided services for a number of customers, including:



AircellLeap WirelessAT&TM/A-COMBarrett XploreMediaFLOBechtel CorporationMetro PCSBell CanadaNokia-SiemensCellular SouthNortelClaroNsoro Mastec, LLCCleartalkPocket CommunicationClearwireRogersCox CommunicationsSprintDigicelTelusEricssonT-MobileGeneral DynamicsU.S. CellularITT CorporationVerizon Wireless

Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing goals are to:



•use existing relationships and develop new relationships with wireless service providers to lease antenna space on and sell related services with
respect to our owned or managed towers, enabling us to grow our site leasing business; and



•successfully bid and win those site development services contracts that will contribute to our operating margins and/or provide a financial or
strategic benefit to our site leasing business.

We approach sales on a company-wide basis, involving many
of our employees. We have a dedicated sales force that is supplemented by members of our executive management team. Our dedicated salespeople are based regionally as well as in the corporate office. We also rely on our regional vice presidents,
general managers and other operations personnel to sell our services and cultivate customers. Our strategy is to delegate sales efforts to those employees of ours who have the best relationships with our customers. Most wireless service providers
have national corporate headquarters with regional and local offices. We believe that wireless service providers make most decisions for site development and site leasing services at the regional and local levels with input from their corporate
headquarters. Our sales representatives work with wireless service provider representatives at the regional and local levels and at the national level when appropriate. Our sales staff compensation is heavily weighted to incentive-based goals and
measurements.







Our primary marketing and sales support is centralized and directed from our headquarters
office in Boca Raton, Florida and is supplemented by our regional and territory offices. We have a full-time staff dedicated to our marketing and sales efforts. The marketing and sales support staff is charged with implementing our marketing
strategies, prospecting and producing sales presentation materials and proposals. In addition to our marketing and sales staff, we rely upon our executive and operations personnel at the regional and local office levels to identify sales
opportunities within existing customer accounts.

Competition

Site Leasing

Site Development– The site development business is extremely competitive and price sensitive. We believe that the majority of our competitors in the U.S. site development business operate within local market areas exclusively, while some firms appear to offer
their services nationally, including Bechtel Corporation, Black & Veatch Corporation, Goodman Networks, General Dynamics Corporation, Nsoro, and Wireless Facilities, Inc. The market includes participants from a variety of market segments
offering individual, or combinations of, competing services. The field of competitors includes site development consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consulting firms, construction companies, tower owners/managers, radio
frequency engineering consultants, telecommunications equipment vendors, which provide end-to-end site development services through multiple subcontractors, and wireless service providers’ internal staff. We believe that providers base their
decisions for site development services on a number of criteria, including: company experience, price, track record, local reputation, geographic reach and time for completion of a project. Currently, we do not offer site development services in
markets outside of the U.S. and its territories.

Employees

Our executive, corporate development, accounting, finance, human resources, legal and regulatory, information technology, site administration personnel, and our network operations center are located in
our headquarters in Boca Raton, Florida. Certain sales, new tower build support and tower maintenance personnel are also located in our Boca Raton office. Our remaining employees are based in our regional and local offices.

As of December 31, 2010, we had 720 employees, none of whom are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. Of these 720
employees, 47 were based outside of the U.S. and its territories. We consider our employee relations to be good.

Regulatory and
Environmental Matters

Federal Regulations.Both the FCC and the Federal Aviation Administration (the
“FAA”) regulate antenna towers and structures that support wireless communications and radio or television antennas. Many FAA







requirements are implemented in FCC regulations. These regulations govern the construction, lighting and painting or other marking of towers and structures and may, depending on the
characteristics of particular towers or structures, require prior approval and registration of towers or structures before they may be constructed, altered or used. Wireless communications equipment and radio or television stations operating on
towers or structures are separately regulated and may require independent customer licensing depending upon the particular frequency or frequency band used. In addition, any applicant for an FCC antenna tower or structure registration must certify
that, consistent with the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, neither the applicant nor its principals are subject to a denial of Federal benefits because of a conviction for the possession or distribution of a controlled substance.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, the FCC, in conjunction with the FAA, has developed standards
to consider proposals involving new or modified antenna towers or structures. These standards mandate that the FCC and the FAA consider the height of the proposed tower or structure, the relationship of the tower or structure to existing natural or
man-made obstructions and the proximity of the tower or structure to runways and airports. Proposals to construct or to modify existing towers or structures above certain heights must be reviewed by the FAA to ensure the structure will not present a
hazard to air navigation. The FAA may condition its issuance of a no-hazard determination upon compliance with specified lighting and/or painting requirements. Antenna towers that meet certain height and location criteria must also be registered
with the FCC. A tower or structure that requires FAA clearance will not be registered by the FCC until it is cleared by the FAA. Upon registration, the FCC may also require special lighting and/or painting. Owners of wireless communications antenna
towers and structures may have an obligation to maintain painting and lighting or other marking in conformance with FAA and FCC regulations. Antenna tower and structure owners and licensees that operate on those towers or structures also bear the
responsibility of monitoring any lighting systems and notifying the FAA of any lighting outage or malfunction.

Owners and
operators of antenna towers and structures may be subject to, and therefore must comply with, environmental laws. Any licensed radio facility on an antenna tower or structure is subject to environmental review pursuant to the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969, among other statutes, which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impact of their decisions under certain circumstances. The FCC has issued regulations implementing the National Environmental Policy Act. These
regulations place responsibility on applicants to investigate potential environmental effects of their operations and to disclose any potential significant effects on the environment in an environmental assessment prior to constructing or modifying
an antenna tower or structure and prior to commencing certain operations of wireless communications or radio or television stations from the tower or structure. In the event the FCC determines the proposed structure or operation would have a
significant environmental impact based on the standards the FCC has developed, the FCC would be required to prepare an environmental impact statement, which will be subject to public comment. This process could significantly delay the registration
of a particular tower or structure.

We generally indemnify our customers against any failure to comply with applicable
regulatory standards relating to the construction, modification, or placement of antenna towers or structures. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties.

The Telecommunications Act of 1996 amended the Communications Act of 1934 by preserving state and local zoning authorities’
jurisdiction over the construction, modification and placement of towers. The law, however, limits local zoning authority by prohibiting any action that would discriminate among different providers of personal wireless services or ban altogether the
construction, modification or placement of radio communication towers. Finally, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires the federal government to help licensees for wireless communications services gain access to preferred sites for their
facilities. This may require that federal agencies and departments work directly with licensees to make federal property available for tower facilities.







As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to certain environmental laws that
impose strict, joint and several liability for the cleanup of on-site or off-site contamination and related personal or property damage. We are also subject to certain environmental laws that govern tower or structure placement, including
pre-construction environmental studies. Operators of towers or structures must also take into consideration certain radio frequency (“RF”) emissions regulations that impose a variety of procedural and operating requirements. Certain
proposals to operate wireless communications and radio or television stations from antenna towers and structures are also reviewed by the FCC to ensure compliance with requirements relating to human exposure to RF emissions. Exposure to high levels
of RF energy can produce negative health effects. The potential connection between low-level RF energy and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in
recent years. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with and we have no material liability under any applicable environmental laws. These costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and liability related thereto may
have a material adverse effect on our prospects, financial condition or results of operations.

State and Local
Regulations.Most states regulate certain aspects of real estate acquisition, leasing activities and construction activities. Where required, we conduct the site acquisition portions of our site development services business through licensed
real estate brokers’ agents, who may be our employees or hired as independent contractors, and conduct the construction portions of our site development services through licensed contractors, who may be our employees or independent contractors.
Local regulations include city and other local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers. These regulations vary greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but typically require tower and structure
owners to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations, or certain other entities prior to tower or structure construction and establish regulations regarding maintenance and removal of towers or structures. In addition,
many local zoning authorities require tower and structure owners to post bonds or cash collateral to secure their removal obligations. Local zoning authorities generally have been unreceptive to construction of new antenna towers and structures in
their communities because of the height and visibility of the towers or structures, and have, in some instances, instituted moratoria.

International– Regulatory regimes outside of the U.S. and its territories vary by country and locality, however, these regulations typically require tower owners and/or licensees to obtain
approval from local officials, or government agencies prior to tower construction or the addition of a new antenna to an existing tower. Based on our experience to date, these regimes have been similar to, but not more rigorous, burdensome or
comprehensive than those in the U.S. Our international operations are also subject to various regulations and guidelines regarding employee relations and other occupational health and safety matters. As we expand our operations into additional
international geographic areas, we will be subject to regulations in these jurisdictions.

Backlog

Backlog related to our site leasing business consists of lease agreements and amendments, which have been signed, but have not yet
commenced. As of December 31, 2010, we had 253 new leases which had been executed with customers but which had not begun generating revenue. These leases will contractually provide for approximately $4.9 million of annual revenue. By
comparison, as of December 31, 2009, we had 344 new leases which had been executed with customers but which had not begun generating revenue. These leases contractually provided for approximately $7.6 million of annual revenue.

Our backlog for site development services consists of the value of work that has not yet been completed on executed contracts. As of
December 31, 2010, we had approximately $17.8 million of contractually committed revenue as compared to approximately $13.9 million as of December 31, 2009.

Availability of Reports and Other Information

Our corporate website iswww.sbasite.com. We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A and amendments to those materials filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 on our website under “Investor Relations—SEC Filings,” as soon as reasonably practicable after we file electronically such material with, or furnish it
to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”).







