ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

We are a leading
independent owner and operator of wireless communications towers. Our principal operations are in the United States and its territories. In addition, we own and operate towers in Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Nicaragua and Panama. Our
primary business line is our site leasing business, which contributed 97.8% of our total segment operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2011. In our site leasing business, we lease antenna space primarily to wireless service providers
on towers and other structures that we own, manage or lease from others. The towers that we own have been constructed by us at the request of a wireless service provider, built or constructed based on our own initiative or acquired. As of
December 31, 2011, we owned 10,524 tower sites, the substantial majority of which have been built by us or built by other tower owners or operators who, like us, have built such towers to lease space to multiple wireless service providers. We
also managed or leased approximately 4,800 actual or potential communications sites, approximately 500 of which were revenue producing as of December 31, 2011. Our other business line is our site development business, through which we assist
wireless service providers in developing and maintaining their own wireless service networks.

Site Leasing Services

Our primary focus is the leasing of antenna space on our multi-tenant towers to a variety of wireless service providers under long-term
lease contracts in the United States, Canada and Central America. Site leasing revenues are received primarily from wireless service provider tenants, including AT&T, Sprint, Verizon Wireless, T-Mobile, Digicel, Claro, and Telefonica. Wireless
service providers enter into numerous different tenant leases with us, each of which relates to the lease or use of space at an individual tower site. In the United States and Canada our tenant leases are generally for an initial term of five years
with five 5-year renewal periods at the option of the tenant. These tenant leases typically contain specific rent escalators, which average 3-4% per year, including the renewal option periods. Tenant leases in our Central America markets
typically have an initial term of 10 years with 5-year renewal periods, and similar rent escalators to that of leases in the United States and Canada.

We expand our tower portfolio, both domestically and internationally, through the construction of new towers, or new builds, and through the acquisition of towers from third parties. In our new build
program, we construct towers in locations that were strategically chosen by us or under build-to-suit arrangements. Under build-to-suit arrangements, we build towers for wireless service providers at locations that they have identified. We retain
ownership of the tower and the exclusive right to co-locate additional tenants on the tower. When we construct towers in locations chosen by us, we utilize our knowledge of our customers’ network requirements to identify locations where we
believe multiple wireless service providers need, or will need, to locate antennas to meet capacity or service demands. We seek to identify attractive locations for new towers and complete pre-construction procedures necessary to secure the site
concurrently with our leasing efforts. We generally will have at least one signed tenant lease for each new build tower on the day that it is completed and expect that some will have multiple tenants. During 2012, we intend to build between 415 and
435 new towers, domestically and internationally.

In our tower acquisition program, we pursue towers that meet or exceed our
internal guidelines regarding current and future potential returns. For each acquisition, we prepare various analyses that include projections of a five-year unlevered internal rate of return, review of available capacity, future lease up
projections and a summary of current and future tenant/technology mix.







The table below provides information regarding the development and
status of our tower sites portfolio over the past three years.



For the year ended December 31,200920102011Towers owned at beginning of period7,8548,3249,111Towers acquired3767121,085Towers constructed101124388Towers reclassified/disposed of(1)(7)(49)(60)Towers owned at end of period8,3249,11110,524



(1)Reclassifications reflect the combination for reporting purposes of multiple tower structures on a single parcel of real estate, which we market and customers view as a
single location, into a single owned tower site. Dispositions reflect the decommissioning, sale, conveyance or other legal transfer of owned tower sites.

As of December 31, 2011, we had an average of 2.3 tenants per tower.

Our
site leasing business generates substantially all of our total segment operating profit. Our site leasing business generated 88.3% of our total revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011 and has represented 97.4% or more of our total
segment operating profit for the past three years. For the year ended December 31, 2011, site leasing revenues generated outside the U.S. and its territories were less than 4% of total revenue.

International Operations

We believe that we can create substantial value by expanding our site leasing services into select international markets which we believe
have a high-growth wireless industry and relatively stable political and regulatory environment. We currently own 1,330 towers in Canada, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Nicaragua and Panama, and intend to continue expanding in these and other
international markets. These international markets typically have less mature wireless networks with limited wireline infrastructure and wireless data penetration. Accordingly, our expansion in these markets is primarily driven by (i) wireless
service providers seeking to increase the quality and coverage of their networks in developing countries, (ii) consumers’ increased use of high data applications, such as email, internet access and video, and (iii) recent spectrum
auctions, which have resulted in new market entrants, as well as initial data network deployments. For example, we expect a meaningful build-out of our new towers and communication sites in Costa Rica as a result of recent spectrum auctions in that
country. We expect to continue expanding internationally through buying or building towers, managing communication sites and leasing space to wireless service providers on assets we control.

We consider various factors when identifying a market for our international expansion, including:



•Country analysis– We consider the country’s political stability, and whether the country’s general business, legal and
regulatory environment is conducive to the sustainability and growth of our business.



•Market potential– We analyze the expected demand for wireless services, and whether a country has multiple wireless service providers who
are actively seeking to invest in deploying voice and data networks, as well as spectrum auctions that have occurred or that are anticipated to occur.



•Risk adjusted return criteria– We consider whether buying or building towers in a country, and providing our management and leasing
services, will meet our return criteria. As part of this analysis, we consider the risk of entering into an international market, and how our expansion meets our long-term strategic objectives for the region and our business generally.







Site Development Services

Our site development business is complementary to our site leasing business and provides us the ability to keep in close contact with the wireless service providers who generate substantially all of our
site leasing revenue and to capture ancillary revenues that are generated by our site leasing activities, such as antenna and equipment installation at our tower locations. Our site development business is conducted in the United States only and
consists of two segments, site development consulting and site development construction. Site development services revenues are received primarily from providing a full range of end to end services to wireless service providers or companies
providing development or project management services to wireless service providers. We principally perform services for third parties in our core historical areas of wireless expertise, specifically, site acquisition, zoning, technical services and
construction.

In the consulting segment of our site development business, we offer clients the following range of services:
(1) network pre-design; (2) site audits; (3) identification of potential locations for towers and antennas; (4) support in buying or leasing of the location; and (5) assistance in obtaining zoning approvals and permits. In
the construction segment of our site development business we provide a number of services, including, but not limited to the following: (1) tower and related site construction; (2) antenna installation; and (3) radio equipment
installation, commissioning and maintenance. Personnel in our site development business also identify new business opportunities and provide market intelligence for our leasing and new tower build functions.

We provide our site development consulting and construction services on a local basis, through regional offices, territory offices and
project offices. The regional offices are responsible for all site development operations, including hiring employees and opening or closing project offices, and a substantial portion of the sales in such area.

For financial information about our operating segments, please see Note 22 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form
10-K.

Industry Overview

We believe that growing wireless traffic (particularly data and video), successful spectrum auctions and technology developments will require wireless service providers to improve their network
infrastructure and increase their network capacity resulting in an increase in the number of communication sites that they use or the number of antennas at existing communication sites. The following is a discussion of certain growth trends in the
wireless communications industry:



•We believe that our customers’ introduction and continued deployment of next generation wireless technologies including (i) 3G wireless
services and (ii) 4G wireless services, such as long-term evolution, or LTE, and WiMAX, will require our customers to add a large number of additional cell sites and increase the amount of their equipment at current cell sites.



•The Federal Communications Commission’s (the “FCC”) successful spectrum auction 73 during 2008 relating to the auction of the 700 MHz
band, have provided existing carriers the opportunity to deploy spectrum for 4G wireless service which has and will continue to drive the demand for communication sites. Our largest customers, AT&T, Verizon and Sprint, are in the midst of
nation-wide upgrades of their wireless networks to these next generation technologies. In addition, Congress has recently been discussing granting the FCC additional incentive auction authority as well as reallocating the D-block of 700 MHz spectrum
to public safety for the development of a nation-wide public safety network. We believe that all of these factors will drive additional demand for communication sites.



•Consumer demand for high quality, wireless services continues to increase due to data application expansion, continued strong voice demand, and
continued wireline to wireless migration. The constant increase in quantity and type of data applications including social networking and gaming, among other categories, is a major factor in these increases. Consumers list network coverage and
quality as two of the greatest contributors to their dissatisfaction when terminating or changing service. To decrease subscriber churn rate and drive revenue growth, wireless carriers have made substantial capital expenditures on wireless networks
to improve service quality and expand coverage.







Despite the recent recessionary conditions affecting the global marketplace, based on these
factors, we believe that the U.S. wireless industry will continue to grow and is well-capitalized, highly competitive and focused on quality and advanced services. Therefore, we expect that we will see a multi-year trend of strong additional cell
site demand from our customers, which we believe will translate into strong leasing growth for us.

Business Strategy

Our primary strategy is to continue to focus on expanding our site leasing business due to its attractive characteristics such as
long-term contracts, built-in rent escalators, high operating margins and low customer churn. The long-term nature of the revenue stream of our site leasing business makes it less volatile than our site development business, which is more cyclical.
By focusing on our site leasing business, we believe that we can maintain a stable, recurring cash flow stream and reduce our exposure to cyclical changes in customer spending. Key elements of our strategy include:

Maximizing Use of Tower Capacity.We generally have constructed or acquired towers that accommodate multiple tenants and a
substantial majority of our towers are high capacity lattice or guyed towers. Most of our towers have significant capacity available for additional antennas and we believe that increased use of our towers can be achieved at a low incremental cost.
We actively market space on our towers through our internal sales force.

Disciplined Growth of our Tower Portfolio.During 2012, we intend to grow our tower portfolio, domestically and internationally, through the consummation of the Mobilitie transaction, additional tower acquisitions and the construction of between 415 to 435 new towers. In connection with
our international expansion, we have targeted select international markets that we believe have relatively stable political environments and a growing wireless communication industry.We intend to use our available cash from operating activities and
available liquidity, including borrowings, to build and/or acquire new towers at prices that we believe will be accretive to our shareholders both short and long term and which allow us to maintain our long-term target leverage ratios. Furthermore,
we believe that our tower operations are highly scalable. Consequently, we believe that we are able to materially increase our tower portfolio without proportionately increasing selling, general and administrative expenses.

Capitalizing on our Scale and Management Experience.We are a large owner, operator and developer of tower and other communication
sites, with substantial capital, human and operating resources. We have been developing communication sites for wireless service providers in the U.S. since 1989 and owned and operated tower sites for ourselves since 1997. We believe our size,
experience, capabilities and resources make us a preferred partner for wireless service providers both in the U.S. and internationally. Our management team has extensive experience in site leasing and site development, with some of the longest
tenures in the tower and site development industries. Management believes that its industry expertise and strong relationships with wireless service providers will allow us to expand our position as a leading provider of site leasing and site
development services.

Controlling our Underlying Land Positions. We have purchased and intend to continue to purchase
and/or enter into long-term leases for the land that underlies our towers, to the extent available at commercially reasonable prices. We believe that these purchases and/or long-term leases will increase our margins, improve our







cash flow from operations and minimize our exposure to increases in ground lease rents in the future. For the quarter ended December 31, 2011, approximately 70.0% of our tower sites were
located on land that we own or control for more than 20 years. The average remaining life under our ground leases, including renewal options under our control, has been extended to 33 years.

Using our Local Presence to Build Strong Relationships with Major Wireless Service Providers.Given the nature of towers as
location specific communications facilities, we believe that substantially all of what we do is done best locally. Consequently, we have a broad field organization that allows us to develop and capitalize on our experience, expertise and
relationships in each of our local markets which in turn enhances our customer relationships. We are seeking to replicate this expertise internationally. Due to our presence in local markets, we believe we are well positioned to capture additional
site leasing business and new tower build opportunities in our markets and identify and participate in site development projects across our markets.

Customers

Since commencing operations, we have performed site leasing and
site development services for all of the large U.S. wireless service providers. In both our site development and site leasing businesses, we work with large national providers and smaller regional, local or private operators.

We depend on a relatively small number of customers for our site leasing and site development revenues. The following customers
represented at least 10% of our total revenues during at least one of the last three years:



Percentage of Total RevenuesFor the year ended December 
31,200920102011AT&T23.8%23.9%23.8%Sprint21.9%20.4%19.8%Verizon Wireless15.4%14.8%14.8%T-Mobile13.7%11.6%10.7%

During the past two years, we provided services for a number of customers, including:



AircellLeap WirelessAT&TM/A-COMBarrett XploreMetro PCSBechtel CorporationNokia-SiemensBell CanadaNortelCellular SouthNsoro Mastec, LLCClaroNtelosCleartalkRogersClearwireSprintCox CommunicationsTelusDigicelTelefonicaEricssonT-MobileGeneral DynamicsU.S. CellularITT CorporationVerizon Wireless







Sales and Marketing

Our sales and marketing goals are to:



•use existing relationships and develop new relationships with wireless service providers to lease antenna space on and sell related services with
respect to our owned or managed towers, enabling us to grow our site leasing business; and



•successfully bid and win those site development services contracts that will contribute to our operating margins and/or provide a financial or
strategic benefit to our site leasing business.

We approach sales on a company-wide basis, involving many
of our employees. We have a dedicated sales force that is supplemented by members of our executive management team. Our dedicated salespeople are based regionally as well as in the corporate office. We also rely on our regional vice presidents,
general managers and other operations personnel to sell our services and cultivate customers. Our strategy is to delegate sales efforts to those employees of ours who have the best relationships with our customers. Most wireless service providers
have national corporate headquarters with regional and local offices. We believe that wireless service providers make most decisions for site development and site leasing services at the regional and local levels with input from their corporate
headquarters. Our sales representatives work with wireless service provider representatives at the regional and local levels and at the national level when appropriate. Our sales staff compensation is heavily weighted to incentive-based goals and
measurements.

Our primary marketing and sales support is centralized and directed from our headquarters office in Boca Raton,
Florida and is supplemented by our regional and territory offices. We have a full-time staff dedicated to our marketing and sales efforts. The marketing and sales support staff is charged with implementing our marketing strategies, prospecting and
producing sales presentation materials and proposals. In addition to our marketing and sales staff, we rely upon our executive and operations personnel at the regional and local office levels to identify sales opportunities within existing customer
accounts.

Competition

Site Leasing– Our primary competitors for our site leasing activities are (1) the national independent tower companies including American Tower Corporation, Crown Castle International
and Global Tower Partners, (2) a large number of regional independent tower owners, (3) wireless service providers that own and operate their own towers and lease, or may in the future decide to lease, antenna space to other providers, and
(4) alternative facilities such as rooftops, outdoor and indoor distributed antenna system (“DAS”) networks, billboards and electric transmission towers. As a result of several large mergers and acquisitions, American Tower and Crown
Castle have substantially more towers and greater financial resources than we do. Wireless service providers that own and operate their own tower networks are also generally larger and have greater financial resources than we do. We believe that
tower location and capacity, quality of service to our tenants, and, to a lesser extent, price have been and will continue to be the most significant competitive factors affecting the site leasing business. Internationally, to date, the competition
we have encountered has been from both independent tower companies and wireless service providers that own and operate their own tower networks. In our markets outside the U.S. and its territories, the majority of existing towers are owned by
wireless service providers.

Site Development– The site development business is extremely competitive and price
sensitive. We believe that the majority of our competitors in the U.S. site development business operate within local market areas exclusively, while some firms appear to offer their services nationally, including Bechtel Corporation,
Black & Veatch Corporation, Goodman Networks, General Dynamics Corporation, and Nsoro. The market includes participants from a variety of market segments offering individual, or combinations of, competing services. The field of competitors
includes site development consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way







consulting firms, construction companies, tower owners/managers, radio frequency engineering consultants, telecommunications equipment vendors, which provide end-to-end site development services
through multiple subcontractors, and wireless service providers’ internal staff. We believe that providers base their decisions for site development services on a number of criteria, including: company experience, price, track record, local
reputation, geographic reach and time for completion of a project.

Employees

Our executive, corporate development, accounting, finance, human resources, legal and regulatory, information technology and site
administration personnel, and our network operations center, are located in our headquarters in Boca Raton, Florida. Certain sales, new tower build support and tower maintenance personnel are also located in our Boca Raton office. Our remaining
employees are based in our regional and local offices.

As of December 31, 2011, we had 814 employees, none of whom are
represented by a collective bargaining agreement. Of these 814 employees, 87 were based outside of the U.S. and its territories. We consider our employee relations to be good.

Regulatory and Environmental Matters

Federal Regulations.Both the
FCC and the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”) regulate antenna towers and structures that support wireless communications and radio or television antennas. Many FAA requirements are implemented in FCC regulations. These
regulations govern the construction, lighting and painting or other marking of towers and structures and may, depending on the characteristics of particular towers or structures, require prior approval and registration of towers or structures before
they may be constructed, altered or used. Wireless communications equipment and radio or television stations operating on towers or structures are separately regulated and may require independent customer licensing depending upon the particular
frequency or frequency band used. In addition, any applicant for an FCC antenna tower or structure registration must certify that, consistent with the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, neither the applicant nor its principals are subject to a denial of
Federal benefits because of a conviction for the possession or distribution of a controlled substance.

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, the FCC, in conjunction with the FAA, has developed standards to consider proposals involving new or modified antenna towers or structures. These standards mandate that the FCC and the FAA
consider the height of the proposed tower or structure, the relationship of the tower or structure to existing natural or man-made obstructions and the proximity of the tower or structure to runways and airports. Proposals to construct or to modify
existing towers or structures above certain heights must be reviewed by the FAA to ensure the structure will not present a hazard to air navigation. The FAA may condition its issuance of a no-hazard determination upon compliance with specified
lighting and/or painting requirements. Antenna towers that meet certain height and location criteria must also be registered with the FCC. A tower or structure that requires FAA clearance will not be registered by the FCC until it is cleared by the
FAA. Upon registration, the FCC may also require special lighting and/or painting. Owners of wireless communications antenna towers and structures may have an obligation to maintain painting and lighting or other marking in conformance with FAA and
FCC regulations. Antenna tower and structure owners and licensees that operate on those towers or structures also bear the responsibility of monitoring any lighting systems and notifying the FAA of any lighting outage or malfunction.

Owners and operators of antenna towers and structures may be subject to, and therefore must comply with, environmental laws. Any licensed
radio facility on an antenna tower or structure is subject to environmental review pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, among other statutes, which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impact of their
decisions under certain circumstances. The FCC has issued regulations implementing the National Environmental Policy Act. These regulations place responsibility on







applicants to investigate potential environmental effects of their operations and to disclose any potential significant effects on the environment in an environmental assessment prior to
constructing or modifying an antenna tower or structure and prior to commencing certain operations of wireless communications or radio or television stations from the tower or structure. In the event the FCC determines the proposed structure or
operation would have a significant environmental impact based on the standards the FCC has developed, the FCC would be required to prepare an environmental impact statement, which will be subject to public comment. This process could significantly
delay the registration of a particular tower or structure.

We generally indemnify our customers against any failure to comply
with applicable regulatory standards relating to the construction, modification, or placement of antenna towers or structures. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties.

The Telecommunications Act of 1996 amended the Communications Act of 1934 by preserving state and local zoning authorities’
jurisdiction over the construction, modification and placement of towers. The law, however, limits local zoning authority by prohibiting any action that would discriminate among different providers of personal wireless services or ban altogether the
construction, modification or placement of radio communication towers. Finally, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires the federal government to help licensees for wireless communications services gain access to preferred sites for their
facilities. This may require that federal agencies and departments work directly with licensees to make federal property available for tower facilities.

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint and several liability for the cleanup of on-site or off-site contamination and related
personal or property damage. We are also subject to certain environmental laws that govern tower or structure placement, including pre-construction environmental studies. Operators of towers or structures must also take into consideration certain
radio frequency (“RF”) emissions regulations that impose a variety of procedural and operating requirements. Certain proposals to operate wireless communications and radio or television stations from antenna towers and structures are also
reviewed by the FCC to ensure compliance with requirements relating to human exposure to RF emissions. Exposure to high levels of RF energy can produce negative health effects. The potential connection between low-level RF energy and certain
negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with and we have no material liability under any
applicable environmental laws. These costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws and liability related thereto may have a material adverse effect on our prospects, financial condition or results of operations.

State and Local Regulations.Most states regulate certain aspects of real estate acquisition, leasing activities and construction
activities. Where required, we conduct the site acquisition portions of our site development services business through licensed real estate brokers’ agents, who may be our employees or hired as independent contractors, and conduct the
construction portions of our site development services through licensed contractors, who may be our employees or independent contractors. Local regulations include city and other local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants
imposed by community developers. These regulations vary greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but typically require tower and structure owners to obtain approval from local officials or community standards organizations, or certain other
entities prior to tower or structure construction and establish regulations regarding maintenance and removal of towers or structures. In addition, many local zoning authorities require tower and structure owners to post bonds or cash collateral to
secure their removal obligations. Local zoning authorities generally have been unreceptive to construction of new antenna towers and structures in their communities because of the height and visibility of the towers or structures, and have, in some
instances, instituted moratoria.

International. Regulatory regimes outside of the U.S. and its territories vary by
country and locality, however these regulations typically require tower owners and/or licensees to obtain approval from local officials or







government agencies prior to tower construction or the addition of a new antenna to an existing tower. Based on our experience to date, these regimes have been similar to, but not more rigorous,
burdensome or comprehensive than, those in the U.S. Our international operations are also subject to various regulations and guidelines regarding employee relations and other occupational health and safety matters. As we expand our operations into
additional international geographic areas, we will be subject to regulations in these jurisdictions.

Backlog

Backlog related to our site leasing business consists of lease agreements and amendments, which have been signed, but have not yet
commenced. As of December 31, 2011, we had 251 new leases which had been executed with customers but which had not begun generating revenue. These leases will contractually provide for approximately $5.1 million of annual revenue. By
comparison, as of December 31, 2010, we had 253 new leases which had been executed with customers but which had not begun generating revenue. These leases contractually provided for approximately $4.9 million of annual revenue.

Our backlog for site development services consists of the value of work that has not yet been completed on executed contracts. As of
December 31, 2011, we had approximately $14.5 million of contractually committed revenue as compared to approximately $17.8 million as of December 31, 2010.

Availability of Reports and Other Information

SBA Communications
Corporation was incorporated in the State of Florida in March 1997. Our corporate website iswww.sbasite.com. We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form
8-K, Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, on our website under “Investor Relations – SEC
Filings,” as soon as reasonably practicable after we file electronically such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”).







