ITEM 1.       BUSINESS

Exxon Mobil Corporation was incorporated in the State of
New Jersey in 1882. Divisions and affiliated companies of ExxonMobil operate or
market products in the United States and most other countries of the world.
Their principal business is energy, involving exploration for, and production
of, crude oil and natural gas, manufacture of petroleum products and
transportation and sale of crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products.
ExxonMobil is a major manufacturer and marketer of commodity petrochemicals, including
olefins, aromatics, polyethylene and polypropylene plastics and a wide variety of
specialty products. Affiliates of ExxonMobil conduct extensive research
programs in support of these businesses.

Exxon Mobil Corporation has several
divisions and hundreds of affiliates, many with names that includeExxonMobil,Exxon,Esso, MobilorXTO. For convenience and simplicity,
in this report the termsExxonMobil, Exxon, Esso, MobilandXTO,
as well as terms likeCorporation,Company,our,weandits, are sometimes used as abbreviated references to specific
affiliates or groups of affiliates. The precise meaning depends on the context
in question.

Throughout ExxonMobil’s businesses, new
and ongoing measures are taken to prevent and minimize the impact of our
operations on air, water and ground. These include a significant investment in
refining infrastructure and technology to manufacture clean fuels, as well as
projects to monitor and reduce nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxide and greenhouse gas
emissions, and expenditures for asset retirement obligations. Using definitions
and guidelines established by the American Petroleum Institute, ExxonMobil’s
2014 worldwide environmental expenditures for all such preventative and
remediation steps, including ExxonMobil’s share of equity company expenditures,
were $6.2 billion, of which $3.5 billion were included in expenses
with the remainder in capital expenditures. The total cost for such activities
is expected to remain in this range in 2015 and 2016 (with capital expenditures
approximately 40 percent of the total).

The energy and petrochemical industries
are highly competitive. There is competition within the industries and also
with other industries in supplying the energy, fuel and chemical needs of both
industrial and individual consumers. The Corporation competes with other firms
in the sale or purchase of needed goods and services in many national and international
markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate
for such purposes.

Operating data and industry segment
information for the Corporation are contained in the Financial Section of this
report under the following: “Quarterly Information”, “Note 18: Disclosures
about Segments and Related Information” and “Operating Summary”. Information on
oil and gas reserves is contained in the “Oil and Gas Reserves” part of the
“Supplemental Information on Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Activities”
portion of the Financial Section of this report.

ExxonMobil has a long‑standing
commitment to the development of proprietary technology. We have a wide array
of research programs designed to meet the needs identified in each of our
business segments. Information on Company-sponsored research and development
spending is contained in “Note 3: Miscellaneous Financial Information” of
the Financial Section of this report. ExxonMobil held approximately 11 thousand
active patents worldwide at the end of 2014. For technology licensed to third
parties, revenues totaled approximately $148 million in 2014. Although
technology is an important contributor to the overall operations and results of
our Company, the profitability of each business segment is not dependent on any
individual patent, trade secret, trademark, license, franchise or concession.

The number of regular employees was 75.3 thousand,
75.0 thousand, and 76.9 thousand at years ended 2014, 2013 and 2012,
respectively. Regular employees are defined as active executive, management,
professional, technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for
the Corporation and are covered by the Corporation’s benefit plans and
programs. Regular employees do not include employees of the company-operated retail
sites (CORS). The number of CORS employees was 8.4 thousand, 9.8 thousand,
and 11.1 thousand at years ended 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Information concerning the source and
availability of raw materials used in the Corporation’s business, the extent of
seasonality in the business, the possibility of renegotiation of profits or
termination of contracts at the election of governments and risks attendant to
foreign operations may be found in “Item 1A–Risk Factors” and “Item
2–Properties” in this report.

ExxonMobil maintains a website at
exxonmobil.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 are made available through our website as soon as reasonably practical
after we electronically file or furnish the reports to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Also available on the Corporation’s website are the
Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, compensation and nominating
committees of the Board of Directors. Information on our website is not
incorporated into this report.








