ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Investors should review carefully the following risk factors and the other information in this Form 10-K.  The risks that Entergy faces are not limited to those in this section.  There may be additional risks and uncertainties (either currently unknown or not currently believed to be material) that could adversely affect Entergy's financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  See "FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION."

Utility Regulatory Risks

(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas and System Energy)

The terms and conditions of service, including electric and gas rates, of the Utility operating companies and System Energy are determined through regulatory approval proceedings that are lengthy and subject to appeal that could result in delays in effecting rate changes and uncertainty as to ultimate results.

The rates that the Utility operating companies and System Energy charge reflect their capital expenditures, operations and maintenance charges, allowed rates of return, financing costs, and related costs of service.  These rates significantly influence the financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity of Entergy and each of the Utility operating companies and System Energy.  These rates are determined in regulatory proceedings and are subject to periodic regulatory review and adjustment.

In addition, regulators can initiate proceedings to investigate the prudence of costs in the Utility operating companies' base rates and examine, among other things, the prudence of the companies' operation and maintenance practices, level of expenditures (including storm costs), allowed rates of return and appropriate rate base, proposed resource acquisitions and previously incurred capital expenditures.  The regulators can disallow costs found not to have been prudently incurred or found not to have been incurred in compliance with applicable tariffs, creating some risk to the ultimate recovery of those costs.  Regulatory proceedings relating to rates and other matters typically involve multiple parties seeking to limit or reduce rates.  The proceedings generally have long timelines, are primarily based on historical costs, and may or may not be limited by statute, which could cause the Utility operating companies and System Energy to experience regulatory lag in recovering such costs through rates.  Decisions are typically subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with rate case proceedings.  Although four of the Utility operating companies currently obtain recovery under formula rate plans, at some point in the future these formula rate plans may no longer be extended, at which time these Utility operating companies would operate again in a more traditional rate case environment.

The Utility operating companies and System Energy, and the energy industry as a whole, have experienced a period of rising costs and investments, which could result in more frequent rate cases and requests for, and the continuation of, cost recovery mechanisms.  For information regarding rate case proceedings and formula rate plans applicable to certain of the Utility operating companies, see Note 2 to the financial statements.

The Utility operating companies recover fuel and purchased power costs through rate mechanisms that are subject to risks of delay or disallowance in regulatory proceedings.

The Utility operating companies recover their fuel and purchased power costs from their customers through rate mechanisms subject to periodic regulatory review and adjustment.  Because regulatory review can result in the disallowance of incurred costs found not to have been prudently incurred with the possibility of refunds to ratepayers, there exists some risk to the ultimate recovery of those costs.  Regulators can initiate proceedings to investigate the continued usage or the adequacy and operation of the fuel and purchased power recovery clauses of the Utility operating companies.

The Utility operating companies' cash flows can be negatively affected by the time delays between when gas, power or other commodities are purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers of the purchased costs in rates.  On occasion, when the level of incurred costs for fuel and purchased power rises very dramatically, some of the Utility operating companies may agree to defer recovery of a portion of that period's fuel and purchased power 
costs for recovery at a later date, which could increase the near-term working capital and borrowing requirements of those companies.  For a description of fuel and purchased power recovery mechanisms and information regarding the regulatory proceedings for fuel and purchased power recovery, see Note 2 to the financial statements.

As a result of a challenge by the LPSC, the manner in which the Utility operating companies have traditionally shared the costs associated with coordinated planning, construction and operation of generating resources has been changed by the FERC, which will require adjustment of retail and wholesale rates in the jurisdictions where the Utility operating companies provide service and has introduced additional uncertainty in the ratemaking process.

The Utility operating companies historically have engaged in the coordinated planning, construction, and operation of generating resources and bulk transmission facilities under the terms of the System Agreement, which is a rate schedule that has been approved by the FERC.  In 2005, the FERC issued a decision requiring changes to the cost allocation methodology used in that rate schedule.

The LPSC, APSC, MPSC and the AEEC have appealed the 2005 FERC decision to the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.  Entergy and the City of New Orleans intervened in the various appeals.  The D.C. Circuit issued its decision in April 2008.  The D.C. Circuit affirmed the FERC's decision in most respects, but remanded the case to the FERC for further proceedings and reconsideration of its conclusion that it was prohibited from ordering refunds and its determination to implement the bandwidth remedy commencing with calendar year 2006 production costs (with the first payments/receipts commencing in June 2007), rather than commencing the remedy on June 1, 2005.  The D.C. Circuit concluded the FERC had failed to offer a reasoned explanation regarding these issues.

In 2007 through 2010, payments were made by Entergy Arkansas to certain of the Utility operating companies in compliance with the 2005 FERC decision on the cost allocation methodology.  There have been challenges to the level of payments made by Entergy Arkansas under the FERC’s decision and the prudence of the Utility operating companies’ production costs.  The ability to recover in rates any changes to the cost allocation resulting from the challenges, and timing of such recovery, is uncertain and could be the subject of additional regulatory and other proceedings.  For information regarding these and other proceedings associated with the System Agreement, as well as additional information regarding the System Agreement itself, see Note 2 to financial statements, System Agreement Cost Equalization Proceedings. The outcome and timing of this FERC proceeding and resulting recovery and impact on rates cannot be predicted at this time.

There is uncertainty as to the timing or form of any successor arrangement to the System Agreement and the effect of such arrangement (or absence thereof) will have on Entergy and the Utility operating companies.

Based upon the effect of the FERC decision described in the preceding risk factor undermining the benefits of continued participation in the System Agreement, in December 2005, Entergy Arkansas provided notice of its intent to terminate its participation in the System Agreement.  In November 2007, Entergy Mississippi provided its notice to terminate its participation in the System Agreement.  Each notice of termination is effective ninety-six (96) months from the date of notice (December 2013 for Entergy Arkansas and November 2015 for Entergy Mississippi) or such earlier date as authorized by the FERC.  The FERC accepted the notices in November 2009; the LPSC and City Council have requested rehearing of that order.  In February 2011, the FERC denied the request for rehearing.  Entergy cannot predict the timing or the form of any successor arrangement to the System Agreement, or in the alternative, participation in a regional transmission organization (RTO), and the effect such arrangement (or the absence thereof) will have on Entergy or the Utility operating companies.

For further information regarding the FERC and APSC proceedings see “Rate, Cost-recovery, and Other Regulation – Federal Regulation – System Agreement” section of Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries. 
(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

A delay or failure in recovering amounts for storm restoration costs incurred, as a result of severe weather could have material adverse effects on Entergy and those Utility operating companies affected by severe weather.

Entergy's and its Utility operating companies' results of operations, liquidity and financial condition can be materially adversely affected by the destructive effects of severe weather.  Severe weather can also result in significant outages for the customers of the Utility operating companies and, therefore, reduced revenues for the Utility operating companies during the period of the outages.  A delay or failure in recovering amounts for storm restoration costs incurred or revenues lost as a result of severe weather could have a material adverse effect on Entergy and those Utility operating companies affected by severe weather.

The arrangement for the operation of the Utility operating companies’ transmission system faces regulatory challenges and uncertainty in connection with the scheduled expiration of the current Independent Coordinator of Transmission arrangement in November 2012.

In 2000, the FERC issued an order encouraging utilities to voluntarily place their transmission facilities under the control of an independent RTO.  In November 2006, the Utility operating companies installed the SPP as their Independent Coordinator of Transmission (ICT) with responsibility for certain transmission tariff functions, including granting or denying transmission service, administering OASIS, evaluating all transmission requests, and serving as the reliability coordinator.  The initial term of the ICT was for four years and in November 2010 the FERC approved an extension of the ICT arrangement for two years, or until November 2012.  In its order issued in March 2009 pertaining to a requested modification regarding the weekly procurement process (WPP) through the ICT arrangement, the FERC imposed conditions related to the ICT arrangement and indicated it wanted an evaluation of the success of the ICT arrangement and transmission access on the Entergy transmission system.  In compliance with the FERC’s March 2009 order, the Utility operating companies filed with the FERC a process for evaluating the modification or replacement of the current ICT arrangement.  An Entergy Regional State Committee (E-RSC), comprised of one representative from each of the Utility operating companies’ retail regulators has been formed and, in concert with the FERC, has requested a cost/benefit analysis of comparing the ICT arrangement to a proposal under which Entergy would join the SPP RTO.  The scope of the study was expanded to consider Entergy joining the Midwest ISO RTO as another alternative.  On September 30, 2010, the retained consultant presented its cost/benefit analysis of Entergy and Cleco regions joining the SPP RTO.  The cost/benefit analysis indicates that the Entergy region, including entities beyond the Utility operating companies, would realize a net cost of $438 million to a net benefit of $387 million, primarily depending upon transmission cost allocation issues.  Addendum studies, including studies related to Entergy Arkansas and the Utility operating companies joining the Midwest ISO, are to be completed by the end of the first quarter 2011.  For further information regarding the FERC and proceedings related to the ICT, see “Rate, Cost-recovery, and Other Regulation - Federal Regulation -Independent Coordinator of Transmission” section of Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries.

There is uncertainty as to whether a successor ICT arrangement or alternative such as joining an RTO will have received regulatory approval and whether corresponding changes to cost recovery mechanisms will be in place prior to the termination of the current ICT arrangement in November 2012.  To the extent successor ICT arrangements or alternatives have not been approved, an extension of the current ICT arrangement may be required.  The outcome of any effort to negotiate an extension of the current arrangement or to make alternative arrangements cannot be predicted at this time. 
Nuclear Operating and Regulatory Risks

(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy)

Certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy Wholesale Commodities must consistently operate their nuclear power plants at high capacity factors in order to be successful, and lower capacity factors could materially adversely affect Entergy's and their results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
 
Nuclear capacity factors significantly affect the results of operations of certain Utility operating companies, System Energy and Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs.  Consequently, to be successful, a plant owner must consistently operate its nuclear power plants at high capacity factors.  For the Utility operating companies that own nuclear plants, lower capacity factors increase production costs by requiring the affected companies to generate additional energy, sometimes at higher costs, from their fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy their supply needs.  For the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants, lower capacity factors directly affect revenues and cash flow from operations.  Although most of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear forward sales are on a pure unit-contingent basis, which depends on the availability of the asset, some of the unit-contingent contracts guarantee a specified minimum capacity factor.  In the event these plants were operating below the guaranteed capacity factors, Entergy would be subject to price risk for the undelivered power.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ nuclear forward sales contracts can also be on a firm LD basis, which subjects Entergy to increasing price risk if capacity factors decrease.

Certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ nuclear plant owners periodically shutdown their nuclear power plants to replenish fuel.  Plant maintenance and upgrades are often scheduled during such refueling outages.  If refueling outages last longer than anticipated or if unplanned outages arise, Entergy's and their results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.

Outages at nuclear power plants to replenish fuel require the plant to be “turned off.”  Refueling outages generally are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and have historically averaged approximately 30 days in duration.  Plant maintenance and upgrades are often scheduled during such planned outages.  When refueling outages last longer than anticipated or a plant experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and maintenance costs may increase.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ nuclear plants may face lower margins due to higher costs and lower energy sales for unit-contingent power supply contracts or potentially higher energy replacement costs for unit-contingent contracts with capacity guarantees that are not met due to extended or unplanned outages.

Certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy Wholesale Commodities face risks related to the purchase of uranium fuel (and its conversion, enrichment and fabrication), and the risk of being unable to effectively manage these risks by purchasing from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of countries could materially adversely affect Entergy's and their results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Based upon currently planned fuel cycles, Entergy's nuclear units have a diversified portfolio of contracts and inventory that provides substantially adequate nuclear fuel materials and conversion and enrichment services at what Entergy believes are reasonably predictable prices through most of 2011.  Entergy's ability to purchase nuclear fuel at reasonably predictable prices, however, depends upon the creditworthiness and performance reliability of uranium miners, as well as upon the structure of Entergy's contracts for the purchase of nuclear fuel.  There are a number of possible alternate suppliers that may be accessed to mitigate unexpected supply disruption events, including potentially drawing upon Entergy's own inventory intended for later generation periods depending upon its risk management strategy at that time, although the pricing of any such alternate uranium supply from the market will be 
dependent upon the market for uranium supply at that time.  Entergy buys uranium from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of countries, and from time to time purchases from nearly all qualified reliable major market participants worldwide that sell into the U.S. Market prices for nuclear fuel have been extremely volatile from time to time in the past.  Although Entergy’s nuclear fuel contract portfolio provides a degree of hedging against market risks for several years, costs for nuclear fuel in the future cannot be predicted with certainty due to normal inherent market uncertainties, and price increases could materially adversely affect the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy Wholesale Commodities.

Certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business face the risk that the NRC will change or modify its regulations or suspend or revoke their licenses, which could materially adversely affect Entergy's and their results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
 
Under the Atomic Energy Act and Energy Reorganization Act, the NRC regulates the operation of nuclear power plants.  The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities.  A change in the Atomic Energy Act, other applicable statutes, or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and could materially adversely affect the results of operations, liquidity or financial condition of Entergy (through Entergy Wholesale Commodities), its Utility operating companies or System Energy.  Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by one of these companies, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions.  As a result, if an incident were to occur at any nuclear generating unit, whether an Entergy nuclear generating unit or not, it could materially adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and liquidity of Entergy, certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy or Entergy Wholesale Commodities.

Certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy Wholesale Commodities are exposed to risks and costs related to operating and maintaining their nuclear power plants, and their failure to maintain operational efficiency at their nuclear power plants could materially adversely affect Entergy's and  their results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

The nuclear generating units owned by certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business began commercial operations in the 1970s-1980s.  Older equipment may require more capital expenditures to keep each of these nuclear power plants operating efficiently.  This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement.  Any unexpected failure, including failure associated with breakdowns, forced outages or any unanticipated capital expenditures, could result in reduced profitability.  Operations at any of the nuclear generating units owned and operated by Entergy's subsidiaries could degrade to the point where the affected unit needs to be shut down or operated at less than full capacity.  If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense.  A decision may be made to close a unit rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the unit to full capacity.  For Entergy Wholesale Commodities, this could result in lost revenue and increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments and penalties for failure to perform under their contracts with customers.  Moreover, Entergy is becoming more dependent on fewer suppliers for key parts of Entergy's nuclear power plants that may need to be replaced or refurbished.  This dependence on a reduced number of suppliers could result in delays in obtaining qualified replacement parts and, therefore, greater expense for Entergy.

The costs associated with the storage of the spent nuclear fuel of certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy and the owners of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants,  as well as the costs of and their ability to fully decommission their nuclear power plants, could be significantly affected by the timing of the opening of a spent nuclear fuel storage facility, as well as interim storage and transportation requirements.

Certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy and the owners of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants incur costs on a periodic basis for the on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel.  The approval of a license for a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel.  For example, while the DOE is required by law to proceed with the licensing of Yucca Mountain and, after the license is granted by the NRC, to construct the repository and commence the receipt of spent fuel, the Obama administration has cut the budget for the Yucca Mountain project, and has made various statements that Yucca Mountain will not be the solution for spent fuel storage.  These actions may prolong the time before spent fuel is removed from Entergy’s plant sites.  Because the DOE has not accomplished its objectives, it is in non-compliance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 and has breached its spent fuel disposal contracts, and Entergy has sued the DOE for such breach.  Furthermore, Entergy is uncertain as to when the DOE plans to commence acceptance of spent fuel from its facilities for storage or disposal.  As a result, continuing future expenditures will be required to increase spent fuel storage capacity at its nuclear sites.  The costs of on-site storage are also affected by regulatory requirements for such storage.  In addition, the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may affect the 
ability to fully decommission the nuclear units and the costs relating to decommissioning.  For further information regarding spent fuel storage, see the "Critical Accounting Estimates – Nuclear Decommissioning Costs -- Spent Fuel Disposal” section of Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy.

Certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plant owners may be required to pay substantial retrospective premiums imposed under the Price-Anderson Act in the event of a nuclear incident, and losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on Entergy's and their results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.

Accidents and other unforeseen problems at nuclear power plants have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere.  The Price-Anderson Act limits each reactor owner's public liability (off-site) for a single nuclear incident to the payment of retrospective premiums into a secondary insurance pool of up to approximately $117.5 million per reactor.  With 104 reactors currently participating, this translates to a total public liability cap of approximately $12.2 billion per incident.  The limit is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation, a change in the primary limit of insurance coverage, and changes in the number of licensed reactors.  As required by the Price-Anderson Act, the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy Wholesale Commodities carry the maximum available amount of primary nuclear off-site liability insurance with American Nuclear Insurers (currently $375 million for each operating site).  Claims for any nuclear incident exceeding that amount are covered under the retrospective premiums paid into the secondary insurance pool.  As a result, in the event of a nuclear incident that causes damages (off-site) in excess of the $375 million in primary insurance coverage, each owner of a nuclear plant reactor, including Entergy's Utility operating companies, System Energy, and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities plant owners, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident, will be required to pay a retrospective premium, equal to its proportionate share of the loss in excess of the $375 million primary level, up to a maximum of $117.5 million per reactor per incident (Entergy's maximum total contingent obligation per incident is $1.3 billion).  The retrospective premium payment is currently limited to $17.5 million per year per incident per reactor until the aggregate public liability for each licensee is paid up to the $117.5 million cap. 

NEIL is a utility industry mutual insurance company, owned by its members.  All member plants could be subject to assessments (retrospective premium of up to 10 times current annual premium for all policies) should the surplus (reserve) be significantly depleted due to insured losses.  As of April 1, 2010, the maximum assessment amounts total $72.7 million for Nuclear South plants and $89.3 million for the Nuclear Northeast plants.  Retrospective Premium Insurance available through NEIL’s reinsurance treaty can cover the potential assessments.  The Nuclear Northeast plants currently maintain the Retrospective Premium Insurance to cover this potential assessment.

As an owner of nuclear power plants, Entergy participates in industry self-insurance programs and could be liable to fund claims should a plant owned by a different company experience a major event.  Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed the applicable primary insurance coverage and require contribution of additional funds through the industry-wide program that could significantly affect the results of operations, financial condition or liquidity of Entergy, certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy or the Entergy Wholesale Commodities subsidiaries. 

Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of assets in the decommissioning trusts, which then could require significant additional funding.

Owners of nuclear generating plants have an obligation to decommission those plants.  Certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy and owners of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants maintain decommissioning trust funds for this purpose.  Certain of the Utility operating companies collect funds from their customers, which are deposited into the trusts covering the units operated for or on behalf of those companies.  Those rate collections are based upon operating license lives as well as estimated trust fund earnings and decommissioning costs.  In connection with the acquisition of certain nuclear plants, the Entergy Wholesale Commodities plant owners also acquired decommissioning trust funds that are funded in accordance with NRC regulations.  Assets in these trust funds are subject to market fluctuations, will yield uncertain returns that may fall below projected return rates, and may result in losses resulting from the recognition of impairments of the value of certain securities held in these trust funds.  As part of the Pilgrim, Indian Point 1 and 2, Vermont Yankee, and Palisades/Big Rock Point purchases, the former owners transferred decommissioning trust funds, along with the liability to decommission the plants, to the respective Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plant owners.  As part of the Indian Point 1 and 2 purchase, the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plant owner also funded an additional $25 million to a supplemental decommissioning trust fund.  As part of the Palisades transaction, the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business assumed responsibility for spent fuel at the decommissioned Big Rock Point nuclear plant, which is located near Charlevoix, Michigan.  Once the spent fuel is removed from the site, the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business will dismantle the spent fuel storage facility and complete site decommissioning.  The Entergy Wholesale Commodities business expects to fund this activity from operating revenue, and Entergy is providing $5 million in credit support to provide financial assurance to the NRC for this obligation.

In 2008, Entergy experienced declines in the market value of assets held in the trust funds for meeting its decommissioning funding assurance obligations for its plants.  This decline adversely affected Entergy’s ability to demonstrate compliance with the NRC’s requirements for providing financial assurance for decommissioning funding for some of its plants, which deficiencies have now been corrected.  An early plant shutdown, poor investment results (including results from poor performance of or volatility in the capital markets such as occurred in 2008) or higher than anticipated decommissioning costs could cause trust fund assets to be insufficient to meet the decommissioning obligations, with the result that the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plant owners may be required to provide additional funds or credit support to satisfy regulatory requirements for decommissioning.  For further information regarding nuclear decommissioning costs, see the "Critical Accounting Estimates – Nuclear Decommissioning Costs" section of Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy and Note 9 to the financial statements.
 
New or existing safety concerns regarding operating nuclear power plants and nuclear fuel could lead to restrictions upon the operation of Entergy’s nuclear power plants.

New and existing concerns are being expressed in public forums about the safety of nuclear generating units and nuclear fuel, in particular in the northeastern United States, which is where five of the six units in the current fleet of Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants are located.  These concerns have led to, and are expected to continue to lead to, various proposals to Federal regulators and governing bodies in some localities where Entergy's subsidiaries own nuclear generating units for legislative and regulatory changes that could lead to the shut-down of nuclear units, denial of license renewal applications, municipalization of nuclear units, restrictions on nuclear units as a result of unavailability of sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, or other adverse effects on owning and operating nuclear generating units.  Entergy vigorously responds to these concerns and proposals.  If any of the existing proposals, or any proposals that may arise in the future with respect to legislative and regulatory changes, become effective, they could have a material adverse effect on Entergy's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 
(Entergy Corporation)

A failure to obtain renewed licenses for the continued operation of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants could have a material adverse effect on Entergy's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity and could lead to an increase in depreciation rates or an acceleration of the timing for the funding of decommissioning obligations.

The license renewal and related processes for the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants have been and may continue to be the subject of significant public debate and regulatory and legislative review and scrutiny at the federal and, in certain cases, state level.  The operating licenses for Vermont Yankee, Pilgrim, Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 expire in March 2012, June 2012, September 2013 and December 2015, respectively.  Various parties have expressed opposition to renewal of these licenses.  Renewal of the Indian Point licenses is the subject of ongoing proceedings before the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board (ASLB) of the NRC.  Certain contentions have been admitted for litigation and new and amended contentions filed by parties in January and February 2011 have not been acted upon by the ASLB.  Hearings on the contentions admitted by the ASLB currently are expected to begin in early 2012.  The ASLB has completed its proceedings regarding Vermont Yankee, but the New England Coalition filed a new contention, which the ASLB denied in October 2010.  The New England Coalition requested NRC review of the denial in November 2010.  Finally, with respect to the Pilgrim license renewal, the NRC has issued decisions resolving all but one of the issues that were previously appealed by Pilgrim Watch.  The NRC remanded one issue to the ASLB, which ordered that testimony be filed in January 2011 and scheduled a hearing for March 9, 2011.  Pilgrim Watch filed two new contentions, one of which it subsequently amended, in December 2010 and January 2011.  The ASLB for Pilgrim have not decided whether to admit or deny the new contentions.

In relation to Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3, the New York Department of Environmental Conservation has taken the position that these plant owners must obtain a new state-issued Clean Water Act Section 401 water quality certification as part of the license renewal process.  For the Indian Point plants, the Entergy Wholesale Commodities plant owners also must obtain a Coastal Zone Management Act consistency determination from the New York Department of State prior to getting the renewed licenses.  For further information regarding these environmental regulations see “Environmental Regulation, Clean Water Act” in Part I, Item 1.

Pursuant to Vermont law, Vermont Yankee is subject to state approvals to continue operations that are independent of NRC license renewal.  Under state law, there is a two-step state law licensing process for obtaining a certificate of public good to continue to operate Vermont Yankee and store newly generated spent fuel after March 21, 2012.  First, the Vermont legislature must vote affirmatively to permit the Vermont Public Service Board to consider Vermont Yankee’s application for a renewed certificate of public good for the continued operation of Vermont Yankee and for storage of spent fuel.  Second, the Vermont Public Service Board must vote to renew the certificate of public good.  The Entergy Wholesale Commodities affiliates that own and operate Vermont Yankee filed an application with the Vermont Public Service Board in March 2008 to renew its certificate of public good to operate for 20 years beginning March 22, 2012 and to store spent nuclear fuel generated after that date.  Ten days of hearings were held in May and June 2009.  The Department of Public Service and other parties contended during the hearing that a favorable power purchase agreement for the sale of power from Vermont Yankee to Vermont utilities would be important to demonstrating that renewal of the certificate of public good promoted the public interest.  Proceedings in that docket currently are in abeyance.

During its 2009 session, which concluded in May, several committees of the Vermont General Assembly held hearings on Vermont Yankee, but no bill or resolution was introduced for approval of continued operation and storage of spent nuclear fuel generated after March 21, 2012.  In January 2010, the Governor of the State of Vermont issued a statement indicating he would not ask the Vermont General Assembly to consider the renewal of a certificate of public good during its 2010 session, based on the discovery of tritium leakage from Vermont Yankee, concerns about miscommunication by Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee and Entergy Nuclear Operations related to underground piping at Vermont Yankee carrying radionuclides, and other issues including decommissioning.  Nevertheless, on February 24, 2010, a bill to authorize the Public Service Board to approve the continued operation of Vermont Yankee was defeated in the Vermont Senate by a vote of 26 to 4.  Neither house of the Vermont General Assembly has voted on a similar bill since that time. 

If the NRC finally denies the applications for the renewal of operating licenses for one or more of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants, or a state in which any such nuclear power plant is located does not take actions legally required for the continued operation of such plant, Entergy’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by loss of revenue and cash flow associated with the plant or plants, potential impairments of the carrying value of the plants, increased depreciation rates, and an accelerated need for decommissioning funds, which could require additional funding. In addition, Entergy may incur increased operating costs depending on any conditions that may be imposed in connection with license renewal.  For further discussion regarding the license renewal processes for the Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ nuclear power plants, see “ENTERGY’S BUSINESS – Entergy Wholesale Commodities – Property – Nuclear Generating Stations” in Part I, Item 1 for Entergy Corporation and its subsidiaries.

The decommissioning trust fund assets for the nuclear power plants owned by Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ nuclear plant owners  may not be adequate to meet decommissioning obligations if one or more of their nuclear power plants is retired earlier than the anticipated shutdown date or if current regulatory requirements change which then could require additional funding.
 
Under NRC regulations, Entergy’s nuclear subsidiaries are permitted to project the NRC-required decommissioning amount based on an NRC formula and the amount in each of  the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plant's decommissioning trusts combined with other decommissioning financial assurances in place.  The projections are made based on the operating license expiration date and the mid-point of the subsequent decommissioning process for each of these nuclear power plants, with the earliest scheduled shutdown being Vermont Yankee in 2012.  As a result, if the projected amount of our decommissioning trusts exceeds the NRC-required decommissioning amount, then its decommissioning obligations are considered to be funded in accordance with NRC regulations.  In the event the NRC's formula does not sufficiently reflect the actual costs the applicable Entergy subsidiaries would be required to incur to decommission these nuclear power plants, and funding is otherwise inadequate, or if the formula is changed to require increased funding, additional resources would be required.  Furthermore, depending upon the level of funding available in the trust funds, the NRC may not permit the trust funds to be used to pay for related costs such as the management of spent nuclear fuel that are not included in the formula.  The NRC may also require a plan for the provision of separate funding for spent fuel management costs.  In addition to NRC requirements, there are other decommissioning-related obligations for certain of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants, which management believes it will be able to satisfy.

With respect to the decommissioning trusts for Vermont Yankee, Indian Point 2 and Palisades, the total amount in each of those trusts as of December 31, 2010 would not have been sufficient to initiate and complete the immediate near-term decommissioning of the respective unit as of such date, but rather the funds would have been sufficient to place the unit in a condition of safe storage status pending future completion of decommissioning.  For example, if an Entergy subsidiary had decided to shutdown and immediately begin decommissioning one of those nuclear power plants on December 31, 2010, its trust funds for the plant would have been insufficient and the applicable Entergy subsidiary would have been required to rely on other capital resources to fund the entire decommissioning obligations unless the completion of decommissioning could be deferred during some number of years of safe storage status (as is permitted by NRC regulations).  Thus, if an Entergy subsidiary decides to shutdown one of these nuclear power plants earlier than the scheduled shutdown date and conduct a prompt decommissioning, the applicable Entergy subsidiary may be unable to rely upon only the decommissioning trust to fund the entire decommissioning obligations, which would require it to obtain funding from other sources.

Further, federal or state regulatory changes, including mandated increases in decommissioning funding or changes in the methods or standards for decommissioning operations, may also increase the funding requirements of, or accelerate the timing for funding of, the obligations related to the decommissioning of Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ nuclear power plants.  As a result, under any of these circumstances, Entergy's results of operations, liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ nuclear power plants are exposed to price risk through either advance sale of energy and capacity into forward markets or accepting spot prices primarily in day-ahead markets.

Entergy and its subsidiaries are not guaranteed any rate of return on their capital investments in non-utility businesses.  In particular, the sale of capacity and energy from the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants, unless otherwise contracted, is subject to the fluctuation of market power prices.  As of December 31, 2010, Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power generation plants had sold forward 96%, 87%, 40%, 25% and 15% of its generation portfolio's planned energy output for 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively.  Many of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business’s existing long-term contracts expire by the end of 2012.  The obligations under most of these agreements are contingent on a generating asset that is operating; if the generation asset is not operating, the seller generally is not liable for damages.  For some unit-contingent obligations, however, there is also
 
a guarantee of availability that provides for the payment to the power purchaser of contract damages, if incurred, in the event the unit owner fails to deliver power as a result of the failure of the specified generation unit to generate power at or above a specified availability threshold.  For those obligations that are not unit-contingent, Entergy Wholesale Commodities may be required to make payments to the purchaser based on the difference between the market price at the delivery point and the contract price at times when the unit being hedged is not running, and to the extent market prices are higher than contract prices, the amount of such payments could be substantial.

Market prices may fluctuate substantially sometimes over relatively short periods of time and at other times experience sustained increases or decreases.  Demand for electricity and its fuel stock can fluctuate dramatically, creating periods of substantial under- or over-supply.  During periods of over-supply, prices might be depressed.  Also, from time to time there may be political pressure, or pressure from regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over wholesale and retail energy commodity and transportation rates, to impose price limitations, credit requirements, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address volatility and other issues in these markets.

The price that different counterparties offer for forward sales is influenced both by market conditions as well as the contract terms such as damage provisions, credit support requirements and the number of available counterparties interested in contracting for the desired forward period.  Depending on differences between market factors at the time of contracting versus current conditions, Entergy Wholesale Commodities' contract portfolio may have average contract prices above or below current market prices, including at the expiration of the contracts, which may significantly affect Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  The recent economic downturn and negative trends in the energy commodity markets have resulted in lower natural gas prices, and current prevailing market prices for electricity in the New York and New England power regions are therefore generally below the prices of Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ existing contracts in those regions.  To the extent these market conditions persist, Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ realized price per MWh can be expected to continue to decline.  With operating licenses for Vermont Yankee, Pilgrim, Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 expiring between 2012 and 2015, delays in obtaining extension of the operating licenses and any other approvals required for continued operation of the plants, Entergy Wholesale Commodities may enter into fewer unit-contingent forward sales contracts for output from such plants for periods beyond the license expiration.  Instead, in order to hedge future price risk to desired levels, Entergy Wholesale Commodities may enter into firm LD forward sales contacts under which it will be exposed to operational price risk to the extent that the plants do not run as expected.

Among the factors that could affect market prices for electricity and fuel, all of which are beyond Entergy's control to a significant degree, are:

·  
prevailing market prices for natural gas, uranium (and its conversion, enrichment and fabrication), coal, oil, and other fuels used in electric generation plants, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities;
·  
seasonality;
·  
availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources and the requirements of a renewable portfolio standard;
·  
changes in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal and crude oil and refined products;
·  
liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market, including the number of creditworthy counterparties available and interested in entering into forward sales agreements for Entergy’s full hedging term; 
·  
the actions of external parties, such as the FERC and local independent system operators and other state or Federal energy regulatory bodies, that may impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in the energy markets;
·  
electricity transmission, competing generation or fuel transportation constraints, inoperability or inefficiencies;
·  
the general demand for electricity, which may be significantly affected by national and regional economic conditions;
·  
weather conditions affecting demand for electricity or availability of hydroelectric power or fuel supplies;
·  
the rate of growth in demand for electricity as a result of population changes, regional economic conditions and the implementation of conservation programs;
·  
regulatory policies of state agencies that affect the willingness of Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear customers to enter into long-term contracts generally, and contracts for energy in particular;
·  
increases in supplies due to actions of current Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new generation facilities, expansion of existing generation facilities, the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities and improvements in transmission that allow additional supply to reach Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ nuclear markets;
·  
union and labor relations;
·  
changes in Federal and state energy and environmental laws and regulations and other initiatives, including but not limited to, the price impacts of proposed emission controls such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI); and
·  
natural disasters, terrorist actions, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events.

The Entergy Wholesale Commodities business is subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by legislative, regulatory or market design changes, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements.

The Entergy Wholesale Commodities business is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulation.  Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause the Wholesale Commodities business to incur significant additional costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability.

Public utilities under the Federal Power Act are required to obtain FERC acceptance of their rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity.  Each of the owners of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear power plants, as well as Entergy Nuclear Power Marketing, LLC, is a "public utility" under the Federal Power Act by virtue of making wholesale sales of electric energy.  The FERC has granted these generating and power marketing companies the authority to sell electricity at market-based rates.  The FERC’s orders that grant the Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ generating and power marketing companies market-based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the FERC subsequently determines that the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry, or engage in abusive affiliate transactions.  In addition, the Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ market-based sales are subject to certain market behavior rules, and if any of its generating and power marketing companies were deemed to have violated one of those rules, they would be subject to potential disgorgement of profits associated with the violation and/or suspension or revocation of their market-based rate authority and potential penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation.  If the Entergy Wholesale Commodities’ generating or power marketing companies were to lose their market-based rate authority, such companies would be required to obtain the FERC’s acceptance of a cost-of-service rate schedule and could become subject to the accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost-based rate schedules.  This could have an adverse effect on the rates the Entergy Wholesale Commodities charges for power from its facilities.

The Entergy Wholesale Commodities business is also affected by legislative and regulatory changes, as well as changes to market design, market rules, tariffs, cost allocations and bidding rules imposed by the existing Independent System Operators.  The Independent System Operators that oversee most of the wholesale power markets impose, and in the future may continue to impose, mitigation, including price limitations, offer caps and other mechanisms, to address some of the volatility and the potential exercise of market power in these markets.  These types of price limitations and other regulatory mechanisms may have an adverse effect on the profitability of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business' generation facilities that sell energy and capacity into the wholesale power markets.  For further information regarding federal, state and local laws and regulation applicable to the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business, see “Entergy’s Business-Regulation of Entergy’s Business” in Part I, Item 1 for Entergy Corporation and its subsidiaries. 
The regulatory environment applicable to the electric power industry has undergone substantial changes over the past several years as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels.  These changes are ongoing and Entergy cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power markets or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment will have on the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business.  In addition, in some of these markets, interested parties have proposed material market design changes, including the elimination of a single clearing price mechanism and have raised claims that the competitive marketplace is not working because energy prices in wholesale markets exceed the marginal cost of operating nuclear power plants, as well as proposals to re-regulate the markets, impose a generation tax or require divestitures by generating companies to reduce their market share.  Other proposals to re-regulate may be made and legislative or other attention to the electric power market restructuring process may delay or reverse the deregulation process, which could require material changes to business planning models.  If competitive restructuring of the electric power markets is reversed, modified, discontinued or delayed, the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business' results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.

The nuclear power plants owned by the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business are subject to impairment charges in certain circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on Entergy's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.

Entergy periodically reviews long-lived assets held in all of its business segments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that recoverability of these assets is uncertain.  Generally, the determination of recoverability is based on the undiscounted net cash flows expected to result from such operations and assets.  Projected net cash flows depend on the future operating costs associated with the assets, the efficiency and availability of the assets and generating units, and the future market and price for energy over the remaining life of the assets.  In particular, the assets of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business, including the nuclear power plants, are subject to impairment if adverse market conditions arise and continue (such as declines in market prices for electricity), if adverse regulatory events occur (including with respect to environmental regulation), if a unit ceases operation or if a unit's operating license is not renewed.  Moreover, the failure of the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business to achieve forecasted operating results and cash flows, an unfavorable change in forecasted operating results or cash flows or a decline in observable industry market multiples could all result in potential impairment charges for the affected assets. 

As discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the operating licenses for Vermont Yankee, Pilgrim, Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 expire between 2012 and 2015 and are currently the subject of license renewal processes at the NRC and the states in which the plants operate.  If Entergy concludes that any of these nuclear power plants is unlikely to operate significantly beyond its current license expiration date, which conclusion would be based on a variety of factors, such a conclusion could result in an impairment of part or all of the carrying value of the plant.  Any impairment charge taken by Entergy with respect to its long-lived assets, including the nuclear power plants owned by the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business, would likely be material in the quarter that the charge is taken and could otherwise have a material adverse effect on Entergy's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 
General Business Risks

(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

Entergy and the Utility operating companies depend on access to the capital markets and, at times, may face potential liquidity constraints, which could make it more difficult to handle future contingencies such as natural disasters or substantial increases in gas and fuel prices.  Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect Entergy and its subsidiaries' ability to meet liquidity needs, access capital and operate and grow their businesses, and the cost of capital.

Entergy's business is capital intensive and dependent upon its ability to access capital at reasonable rates and other terms.  At times there are also spikes in the price for natural gas and other commodities that increase the liquidity requirements of the Utility operating companies.  In addition, Entergy's and the Utility operating companies' liquidity needs could significantly increase in the event of a hurricane or other weather-related or unforeseen disaster similar to that experienced in Entergy's service territory with Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita in 2005 and Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane Ike in 2008.  The occurrence of one or more contingencies, including a delay in regulatory recovery of fuel or purchased power costs or storm restoration costs, higher than expected pension contributions, an acceleration of payments or decreased credit lines, less cash flow from operations than expected or other unknown events, such as future storms, could cause the financing needs of Entergy and its subsidiaries to increase.  In addition, accessing the capital markets more frequently in these situations may result in an increase in leverage.  Material leverage increases could negatively affect the credit ratings of Entergy and the Utility operating companies, which in turn could negatively affect access to the capital markets.
 
The global capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in the fourth quarter of 2008 and much of 2009.  The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in the capital markets, could negatively affect Entergy and its subsidiaries' ability to maintain and to expand their businesses.  Events beyond Entergy's control, such as the volatility and disruption in global capital and credit markets in 2008 and 2009, may create uncertainty that could increase its cost of capital or impair its ability to access the capital markets, including the ability to draw on its bank credit facilities.  Entergy and its subsidiaries are unable to predict the degree of success they will have in renewing or replacing their credit facilities as they come up for renewal.  Moreover, the size, terms, and covenants of any new credit facilities may not be comparable to, and may be more restrictive than, existing facilities.  If Entergy and its subsidiaries are unable to access the credit and capital markets on terms that are reasonable, they may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and/or bear an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could impact their ability to grow their businesses, decrease earnings, significantly reduce financial flexibility and/or limit Entergy Corporation's ability to sustain its current common stock dividend level.

(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy)

A downgrade in Entergy Corporation's or its subsidiaries' credit ratings could negatively affect Entergy Corporation's and its subsidiaries' ability to access capital and/or could require Entergy Corporation or its subsidiaries to post collateral, accelerate certain payments or repay certain indebtedness.

There are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for Entergy Corporation and the Registrant Subsidiaries, including the ability to cover liquidity requirements, the availability of committed external credit support, and Entergy Corporation's share repurchase program, dividend policy and other commitments for capital.  If one or more rating agencies downgrade Entergy Corporation's, any of the Utility operating companies', or System Energy's ratings, particularly below investment grade, borrowing costs would increase, the potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and cash or letter of credit collateral demands may be triggered by the terms of a number of commodity contracts, leases and other agreements.  
Most of Entergy Corporation's and its subsidiaries' large customers, suppliers and counterparties require sufficient creditworthiness to enter into transactions.  If Entergy Corporation's or its subsidiaries' ratings decline, particularly below investment grade, or if certain counterparties believe Entergy Corporation or the Utility operating companies are losing creditworthiness and demand adequate assurance under fuel, gas and purchased power contracts, the counterparties may require posting of collateral in cash or letters of credit, prepayment for fuel, gas or purchased power or accelerated payment, or counterparties may decline business with Entergy Corporation or its subsidiaries. At December 31, 2010, based on power prices at that time, Entergy had credit exposure of $14 million under the guarantees in place supporting Entergy Nuclear Power Marketing (an Entergy Wholesale Commodities subsidiary) transactions, $20 million of guarantees that support letters of credit, and $3 million of posted cash collateral.  As of December 31, 2010, the credit exposure associated with Entergy Wholesale Commodities assurance requirements could increase by $123 million for a $1 per MMBtu increase in gas prices in both the short- and long-term markets.  In the event of a decrease in Entergy Corporation's credit rating to below investment grade, based on power prices as of December 31, 2010, Entergy would have been required to provide approximately $78 million of additional cash or letters of credit under some of the agreements.

The construction of, and capital improvements to, power generation facilities involve substantial risks.  Should construction or capital improvement efforts be unsuccessful, the financial conditions, results of operations or liquidity of Entergy and the Utility operating companies could be materially adversely affected.

Entergy's and the Utility operating companies' ability to complete construction of power generation facilities in a timely manner and within budget is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks.  These variables include, but are not limited to, project management expertise and escalating costs for materials, labor and environmental compliance.  Delays in obtaining permits, shortages in materials and qualified labor, suppliers and contractors not performing as required under their contracts, changes in the scope and timing of projects, the inability to raise capital on favorable terms, downward changes in the economy and other events beyond the control of the Utility operating companies or the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business may occur that may materially affect the schedule, cost and performance of these projects.  If these projects are significantly delayed or become subject to cost overruns or cancellation, Entergy and the Utility operating companies could incur additional costs and termination payments, or face increased risk of potential write-off of the investment in the project.  For further information regarding capital expenditure plans and other uses of capital in connection with the potential construction of additional generation supply sources within the Utility operating companies' service territory, and as to the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business, see the "Capital Expenditure Plans and Other Uses of Capital" section of Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy and each of the Registrant Subsidiaries.

The Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to, environmental and other matters.

The businesses in which the Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities.  These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business conduct their operations and make capital expenditures.  These laws and regulations also affect how the Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business manage air emissions, discharges to water, solid and hazardous waste storage and disposal, cooling and service water intake, the protection of threatened and endangered species, hazardous materials transportation, and similar matters.  Federal, state, and local authorities continually revise these laws and regulations, and the laws and regulations are subject to judicial interpretation and to the permitting and enforcement discretion vested in the implementing agencies.  Developing and implementing plans for facility compliance with these requirements can lead to capital, personnel, and operation and maintenance expenditures.  Violations of these requirements can subject the Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean-up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties' claims for alleged health or property damages or for violations of applicable permits or standards.  In addition, the Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business are subject to liability under  
these laws for the costs of remediation of environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned or operated by the Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate.  The Utility operating companies are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future.  The Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance.

Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury, particulates, and other regulated air contaminants from generating plants are potentially subject to increased regulation, controls and mitigation expenses.  In addition, existing air regulations and programs promulgated by the EPA often are challenged legally, sometimes resulting in large-scale changes to anticipated regulatory regimes.  Risks relating to global climate change and initiatives to compel CO2 emission reductions are discussed below.

Entergy and its subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals.  If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, or if Entergy and its subsidiaries fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, the operation of its facilities could be stopped or become subject to additional costs.  For further information regarding environmental regulation and environmental matters, see the "Regulation of Entergy's Business – Environmental Regulation" section of Part I, Item 1.

The Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business may incur substantial costs related to reliability standards.
 
Entergy's business is subject to extensive and mandatory reliability standards.  Such standards, which are established by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and the SERC Reliability Corporation (SERC), are approved by the FERC and frequently are reviewed, amended and supplemented.  Failure to comply with such standards could result in the imposition of fines or civil penalties, and potential exposure to third party claims for alleged violations of such standards.  The standards, as well as the laws and regulations that govern them, are subject to judicial interpretation and to the enforcement discretion vested in the implementing agencies.  In addition to exposure to civil penalties and fines, the Utility operating companies have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to compliance with new and existing reliability standards, including costs associated with the Utility operating companies’ transmission system.  Entergy has notified the SERC of potential violations of certain NERC reliability standards, including certain Critical Infrastructure, Protection Facility Connection and System Protection Coordination standards.  Entergy is working with the SERC to provide information concerning these potential violations.  The changes to the reliability standards applicable to the electric power industry are ongoing, and Entergy cannot predict the ultimate effect that the reliability standards will have on its Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities business. 

(Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

The effects of weather and economic conditions and the related impact on electricity and gas usage, may materially adversely affect the Utility operating companies' results of operations.

Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below moderate levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues.  As a corollary, moderate temperatures tend to decrease usage of energy and resulting revenues.  Seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, typically cause the Utility operating companies to report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year than in the other quarters.  Extreme weather conditions or storms,  however, may stress the Utility operating companies' generation facilities and transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs (and potential increased financing needs), limits on their ability to meet peak customer demand, increased regulatory oversight, and lower customer satisfaction.  These extreme conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Utility operating companies' financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Industrial sales volume was depressed in the latter part of 2008 and through most of 2009, in part because the overall economy declined, with lower usage across the industrial sector affecting both the large customer industrial segment as well as small and mid-sized industrial customers.  Despite the apparently improving economic conditions in the service territories of the Utility operating companies since the fourth quarter 2009, it  is possible that continued or recurrent poor economic conditions, combined with increasing rates in certain of the Utility operating companies' service territories, could result in slower or declining sales growth and increased bad debt expense relative to recent years, which could materially adversely affect Entergy's and the Utility operating companies' results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

The effects of climate change and environmental and regulatory obligations intended to compel CO2 emission reductions could materially adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and liquidity of Entergy and the Utility operating companies.

In an effort to address climate change concerns, Federal, state, and local authorities are calling for additional laws and regulations aimed at known or suspected causes of climate change.  For example, in response to the United States Supreme Court's 2007 decision holding that the EPA has authority to regulate emissions of CO2 and other "greenhouse gases" under the Clean Air Act, the EPA, various environmental interest groups and other organizations are focusing considerable attention on CO2 emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change.  In 2010, EPA promulgated its first regulations controlling greenhouse gas emissions from certain vehicles and from new and significantly modified stationary sources of emissions, including electric generating units, and additional new source performance standards are expected in 2012.  Developing and implementing plans for compliance with CO2 emissions reduction requirements can lead to additional capital, personnel, and operation and maintenance expenditures and could significantly affect the economic position of existing facilities and proposed projects.  Violations of such requirements may subject Entergy and the Utility operating companies to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean-up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties' claims for alleged health or property damages or for violations of applicable permits or standards.  To the extent Entergy believes any of these costs are recoverable in rates, however, additional material rate increases for customers could be resisted by Entergy's regulators and, in extreme cases, Entergy's regulators might deny or defer timely recovery of these costs.  Future changes in environmental regulation governing the emission of CO2 and other "greenhouse gases" could make some of Entergy's electric generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate, and could increase the difficulty that Entergy and its subsidiaries have with obtaining or maintaining required environmental regulatory approvals, which could also materially adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and liquidity of Entergy and the Utility operating companies.  In addition, several lawsuits currently are pending against emitters of greenhouse gases alleging that these companies are liable for personal injuries and property damage caused by climate change.  These lawsuits seek injunctive relief, monetary compensation, and punitive damages.

In addition to the regulatory and financial risks associated with climate change discussed above, physical risks from climate change include an increase in sea level, wetland and barrier island erosion, risks of flooding and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in precipitation, average temperatures and potential increased impacts of extreme weather conditions or storms.  Entergy subsidiaries own assets in, and serve, communities that are at risk from sea level rise, changes in weather conditions, storms and loss of the protection offered by coastal wetlands.  A significant portion of the nation’s oil and gas infrastructure is located in these areas and susceptible to storm damage that could be aggravated by wetland and barrier island erosion, which could give rise to fuel supply interruptions and price spikes.

These and other physical changes could result in changes in customer demand, increased costs associated with repairing and maintaining generation facilities and transmission and distribution systems resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs (and potential increased financing needs), limits on the Entergy System's ability to meet peak customer demand, increased regulatory oversight, and lower customer satisfaction.  Also, to the extent that climate change adversely impacts the economic health of a region or results in energy conservation or demand side management programs, it may adversely impact customer demand and revenues.  Such physical or operational risks could have a material adverse effect on Entergy's and the Utility operating companies' financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Entergy and its subsidiaries may not be adequately hedged against changes in commodity prices, which could materially adversely affect Entergy's and its subsidiaries' results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

To manage their near-term financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, Entergy and its subsidiaries may enter into contracts to hedge portions of their purchase and sale commitments, fuel requirements and inventories of natural gas, uranium (and its conversion), coal, refined products, and other commodities, within established risk management guidelines.  As part of this strategy, Entergy and its subsidiaries may utilize fixed- and variable-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges.  However, Entergy and its subsidiaries normally cover only a portion of the exposure of their assets and positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over time.  In addition, Entergy also elects to leave certain volumes during certain years unhedged.  To the extent Entergy and its subsidiaries have unhedged positions, fluctuating commodity prices can materially adversely affect Entergy's and its subsidiaries' results of operations and financial position.

Although Entergy and its subsidiaries devote a considerable effort to these risk management strategies, they cannot eliminate all the risks associated with these activities.  As a result of these and other factors, Entergy and its subsidiaries cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on their business, results of operations or financial position.

Entergy has guaranteed or indemnified the performance of a portion of the obligations relating to hedging and risk management activities.  Reductions in Entergy's or its subsidiaries' credit quality or changes in the market prices of energy commodities could increase the cash or letter of credit collateral required to be posted in connection with hedging and risk management activities, which could materially affect Entergy's or its subsidiaries' liquidity and financial position.
 
The Utility operating companies and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business are exposed to the risk that counterparties may not meet their obligations, which may materially adversely affect the Utility operating companies and Entergy Wholesale Commodities.

The hedging and risk management practices of the Utility operating companies and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Entergy and its subsidiaries money, energy, or other commodities will not perform their obligations.  Currently, some hedging agreements contain provisions that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure their obligations to Entergy or its subsidiaries.  If the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Entergy or its subsidiaries might be forced to act on the credit support provided and acquire alternative hedging arrangements or draw on the credit support provided by the counterparties, which credit support may not always be adequate to cover the related obligations.  In such event, Entergy and its subsidiaries might incur losses in addition to amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties.  In addition, the credit commitments of Entergy's lenders under its bank facilities may not be honored for a variety of reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress affecting such lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of its liquidity sources.

The Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010 and rules and regulations promulgated under the act may adversely affect the ability of the Utility operating companies and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business to utilize certain commodity derivatives for hedging and mitigating commercial risk.

The Wall Street Transparency and Accountability Act of 2010, which was enacted on July 21, 2010 as part of the Dodd-Frank Act Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and the rules and regulations to be promulgated under the act will impose governmental regulation on the over-the-counter derivative market, including the commodity swaps used by the Utility operating companies and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business to hedge and mitigate commercial risk.  Under the act, certain swaps will be subject to mandatory clearing and exchange trading requirements.  Swap dealers and major participants in the swap market will be subject to capital, margin, registration, reporting, recordkeeping and business conduct requirements with respect to their swap activities.  Position limits will also apply to certain swaps activities.  The act requires the applicable regulators, which in the case of commodity swaps will be the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to engage in substantial rulemaking in order to implement the provisions of the act and such rulemaking is not yet final.  Both the Utility operating companies  
and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business currently utilize commodity swaps to hedge and mitigate commodity price risk.  It is not known whether the act and regulations promulgated under the act will have an adverse effect upon the market for the commodity swaps used by the Utility operating companies and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business.  However, to the extent that the act and regulations promulgated under the act have the effect of increasing the price of such commodity swaps or limiting or reducing the availability of such commodity swaps, whether through the imposition of additional capital, margin or compliance costs upon market participants or otherwise, the financial performance of the Utility operating companies and/or the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business may be adversely affected.  To the extent that the Utility operating companies and the Entergy Wholesale Commodities business would be required to post margin in connection with existing or future commodity swaps in addition to any margin currently posted by such entities, such entities may need to secure additional sources of capital to meet such liquidity needs or cease utilizing such commodity swaps.

Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require additional funding.

The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under Entergy's pension and postretirement benefit plans.  A decline in the market value of the assets may increase the funding requirements relating to Entergy's benefit plan liabilities.  The recent recession and volatility in the capital markets have affected the market value of these assets, which may affect Entergy's planned levels of contributions in the future.  Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under Entergy's pension and postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding.  The funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans can also increase as a result of changes in, among other factors, retirement rates, life expectancy assumptions, or Federal regulations.  Guidance pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and beyond, continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical corrections bills and discussed within the industry and by congressional lawmakers.  Any changes to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as a result of these discussions and efforts may affect the level of Entergy's pension contributions in the future.  For further information regarding Entergy's pension and other postretirement benefit plans, reference is made to the "Critical Accounting Estimates – Qualified Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits" section of Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy and each of its Registrant Subsidiaries and Note 11 to the financial statements.

The litigation environment in the states in which certain Entergy subsidiaries operate poses a significant risk to those businesses.

Entergy and its subsidiaries are involved in the ordinary course of business in a number of lawsuits involving employment, commercial, asbestos, hazardous material and ratepayer matters, and injuries and damages issues, among other matters.  States in which the Utility operating companies operate, in particular Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas, have proven to be unusually litigious environments.  Judges and juries in these states have demonstrated a willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs in personal injury, property damage, and business tort cases.  Entergy and its subsidiaries use legal and appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against them, but the litigation environment in these states poses a significant business risk.

Terrorist attacks, future war or risk of war may adversely affect Entergy's results of operations.

As power generators and distributors, Entergy and its subsidiaries face heightened risk of an act or threat of terrorism, including physical and cyber attacks, either as a direct act against one of Entergy's generation facilities, an act against the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport power which affects its ability to operate or an act against the information technology systems and network infrastructure of Entergy and its subsidiaries. 

Entergy and its subsidiaries operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  Despite the implementation of security measures by Entergy and its subsidiaries, all technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities.  If Entergy’s or its subsidiaries’ technology systems were to fail or be breached and be unable to recover in a timely way, Entergy or its subsidiaries may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised.

If any such attacks were to occur, Entergy's and the Utility operating companies’ business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  The risk of attacks also may cause Entergy and the Utility operating companies to incur increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for its nuclear power plants and other facilities, such as additional physical facility security and additional security personnel, and for systems to protect its information technology and network infrastructure systems.

Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact Entergy’s, the Utility operating companies’ and System Energy’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Entergy and its subsidiaries make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities.  These tax obligations include income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes.  These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken.  Entergy and its subsidiaries also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements.  Changes in federal, state, or local tax laws, adverse tax audit results or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by Entergy and its subsidiaries could negatively affect Entergy's, the Utility operating companies' and System Energy's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  For further information regarding Entergy's accounting for tax obligations, reference is made to Note 3 to the financial statements.

(Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans)

The effect of higher purchased gas cost charges to customers may adversely affect Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's and Entergy New Orleans' results of operations and liquidity.

Gas rates charged to customers are comprised primarily of purchased gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana or Entergy New Orleans, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to the utility.  Distribution charges are affected by the amount of gas sold to customers.  Purchased gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customer's bill and may be adjusted quarterly, represent gas commodity costs that Entergy Gulf States Louisiana or Entergy New Orleans recovers from its customers.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's or Entergy New Orleans' cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when gas is purchased and the time when ultimate recovery from customers occurs.  When purchased gas cost charges increase substantially reflecting higher gas procurement costs incurred by Entergy Gulf States Louisiana or Entergy New Orleans, customer usage may decrease, especially in weaker economic times, resulting in lower distribution charges for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana or Entergy New Orleans.

(System Energy)

System Energy owns and operates a single nuclear generating facility, and it is dependent on affiliated companies for all of its revenues.

System Energy's operating revenues are derived from the allocation of the capacity, energy, and related costs associated with its 90% ownership/leasehold interest in Grand Gulf.  Charges under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are paid by the Utility operating companies as consideration for their respective entitlements to receive capacity and energy and are payable on a full cost-of-service basis only so long as Grand Gulf remains in commercial operation.  The useful economic life of Grand Gulf is finite and is limited by the terms of its operating license, which is currently due to expire on November 1, 2024.  System Energy's financial condition depends both on the receipt of payments from the Utility operating companies under the Unit Power Sales Agreement and on the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf.  For information regarding the Unit Power Sales Agreement and certain other 
agreements relating to the Entergy System companies' support of System Energy (including the Capital Funds Agreement), see the "Grand Gulf - Related Agreements" section of Note 8 to the financial statements and the "Utility - System Energy and Related Agreements" section of Part I, Item 1.

(Entergy Corporation)

Entergy Corporation's holding company structure could limit its ability to pay dividends.

Entergy Corporation is a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries.  Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries.  Entergy Corporation's ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends or distributions by its subsidiaries.  The payments of dividends or distributions to Entergy Corporation by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings, and on any applicable legal, regulatory, or contractual limitations on subsidiaries’ ability to pay such dividends or distributions.  Provisions in the organizational documents, indentures for debt issuances, and other agreements of certain of Entergy Corporation's subsidiaries restrict the payment of cash dividends to Entergy Corporation.  For further information regarding dividend or distribution restrictions to Entergy Corporation, reference is made to the "COMMON EQUITY – Retained Earnings and Dividend Restrictions" section of Note 7 to the financial statements. 