ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Investors
should review carefully the following risk factors and the other information in
this Form 10-K.  The risks that Entergy faces are not limited to those
in this section.  There may be additional risks and uncertainties
(either currently unknown or not currently believed to be material) that could
adversely affect Entergy's financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity.  See "FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION."

Utility Regulatory
Risks

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas and System
Energy)

The
terms and conditions of service, including electric and gas rates, of the
Utility operating companies and System Energy are determined through regulatory
approval proceedings that are lengthy and subject to appeal that could result in
delays in effecting rate changes and uncertainty as to ultimate
results.

The rates
that the Utility operating companies and System Energy charge reflect their
capital expenditures, operations and maintenance charges, allowed rates of
return, financing costs, and related costs of service. These rates significantly
influence the financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity of
Entergy and each of the Utility operating companies and System
Energy.  These rates are determined in regulatory proceedings and are
subject to periodic regulatory review and adjustment.

In
addition, regulators can initiate proceedings to investigate the prudence of
costs in the Utility operating companies' base rates and examine, among other
things, the prudence of the companies' operation and maintenance practices,
level of expenditures (including storm costs), allowed rates of
return and appropriate rate base, proposed resource acquisitions and
previously incurred capital expenditures.  The regulators can disallow
costs found not to have been prudently incurred, creating some risk to the
ultimate recovery of those costs.  Regulatory proceedings relating to
rates and other matters typically involve multiple parties seeking to limit or
reduce rates.  The proceedings generally have long timelines, are
primarily based on historical costs, and may or may not be limited by statute,
which could cause the Utility operating companies and System Energy to
experience regulatory lag in recovering such costs through
rates.  Decisions are typically subject to appeal, potentially leading
to additional uncertainty associated with rate case proceedings.  The
Utility operating companies and System Energy, and the energy industry as a
whole, have experienced a period of rising costs and investments, which could
result in more frequent rate cases and requests for, and the continuation of,
cost recovery mechanisms.  For information regarding rate case
proceedings and formula rate plans applicable to certain of the Utility
operating companies, see Note 2 to the financial statements.

The
Utility operating companies recover fuel and purchased power costs through rate
mechanisms that are subject to risks of delay or disallowance in regulatory
proceedings.

The
Utility operating companies recover their fuel and purchased power costs from
their customers through rate mechanisms subject to periodic regulatory review
and adjustment.  Because regulatory review can result in the
disallowance of incurred costs found not to have been prudently incurred, there
exists some risk to the ultimate recovery of those costs.  Regulators
can initiate proceedings to investigate the continued usage or the adequacy and
operation of the fuel and purchased power recovery clauses of the Utility
operating companies.

The
Utility operating companies' cash flows can be negatively affected by the time
delays between when gas, power or other commodities are purchased and the
ultimate recovery from customers in rates. On occasion, when the level
of incurred costs for fuel and purchased power rises very dramatically, some
of the Utility operating companies may agree to defer recovery of a
portion of that period's fuel and purchased power costs for recovery at a later
date, which could increase the near-term working capital and borrowing
requirements of those companies.  For a description of fuel and
purchased power recovery mechanisms and information regarding the regulatory
proceedings for fuel and purchased power recovery, see Note 2 to the financial
statements.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

As
a result of a challenge by the LPSC, the manner in which the Utility operating
companies have traditionally shared the costs associated with coordinated
planning, construction and operation of generating resources and bulk
transmission facilities has been changed by the FERC, which will require
adjustment of retail rates in the jurisdictions where the Utility operating
companies provide service and has introduced additional uncertainty in the
ratemaking process.

The
Utility operating companies historically have engaged in the coordinated
planning, construction, and operation of generating resources and bulk
transmission facilities under the terms of the System Agreement, which is a rate
schedule that has been approved by the FERC.  In 2005, the FERC issued
a decision requiring changes to the cost allocation methodology used in that
rate schedule.  In 2007 through 2009, payments were made by Entergy
Arkansas to certain of the Utility operating companies.

Although actual
payments/receipts for 2010, based on calendar year 2009 production costs, will
not be calculated until the Utility operating companies have filed their FERC
Form 1s, preliminary estimates indicate that Entergy Arkansas will be required
to make payments of approximately $70 million in 2010.  Entergy's
management believes that any changes in the allocation of production costs
resulting from the FERC's decision and related retail proceedings should result
in similar rate changes for retail customers.  The timing of recovery
of these costs in rates, however, could be the subject of additional regulatory
and other proceedings.

In
December 2005, Entergy Arkansas provided notice of its intent to terminate its
participation in the System Agreement.  In November 2007, Entergy
Mississippi provided its notice to terminate its participation in the System
Agreement.  Each notice of termination is effective ninety-six (96)
months from the date of notice or such earlier date as authorized by the
FERC.  The FERC accepted the notices in November 2009; the LPSC and
City Council have requested rehearing of that order.  Entergy cannot
predict the timing or the form of any successor arrangement to the System
Agreement, to the extent one is implemented, or the effect such a successor
arrangement (or the absence thereof) will have on Entergy or the Utility
operating companies.

The LPSC,
APSC, MPSC and the AEEC have appealed the 2005 FERC decision to the Court of
Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.  Entergy and the City of New Orleans
intervened in the various appeals.  The D.C. Circuit issued its
decision in April 2008. The D.C. Circuit affirmed the FERC's decision in most
respects, but remanded the case to the FERC for further proceedings and
reconsideration of its conclusion that it was prohibited from ordering refunds
and its determination to implement the bandwidth remedy commencing with calendar
year 2006 production costs (with the first payments/receipts commencing in June
2007), rather than commencing the remedy on June 1, 2005. The D.C. Circuit
concluded the FERC had failed to offer a reasoned explanation regarding these
issues.  The proceeding is pending at the FERC. For information
regarding these and other proceedings associated with the System Agreement, as
well as additional information regarding the System Agreement itself, see the
"

Rate, Cost-recovery, and Other
Regulation – Federal Regulation -

System Agreement
Proceedings

" section of Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis
for Entergy Corporation and each of the Registrant Subsidiaries

.

See "

Fuel and purchased power cost
recovery

,

Entergy Texas

," in
Note 2 to the financial statements for discussion of a PUCT decision that
Entergy Texas is currently challenging regarding its rough production cost
equalization receipts that could result in $18.6 million of trapped costs
between Entergy's Texas and Louisiana jurisdictions.  The outcome and
timing of the FERC and these other proceedings and appeals cannot be predicted
at this time.

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

A
delay or failure in recovering amounts for storm restoration costs incurred, as
a result of severe weather could have material adverse effects on Entergy and
those Utility operating companies affected by severe weather.

Entergy's and its Utility operating
companies' results of operations, liquidity and financial condition can be
materially adversely affected by the destructive effects of severe
weather.  Severe weather can also result in significant outages for
the customers of the Utility operating companies and, therefore, reduced
revenues for the Utility operating companies during the period of the
outages.

A delay or failure in recovering amounts for storm restoration costs
incurred or revenues lost as a result of severe weather could have a material
adverse effect on Entergy and those Utility operating companies affected by
severe weather.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

Nuclear Operating and
Regulatory Risks

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States

Louisiana, Entergy
Louisiana, and System Energy)

Certain of the
Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear
subsidiaries must consistently operate their nuclear power plants at high
capacity factors in order to be successful, and lower capacity factors could
materially adversely affect Entergy's and their results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity.

Nuclear
capacity factors significantly affect certain Utility operating companies',
System Energy's and the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries' results of operations.
Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs, as well as
non-fixed costs associated with plant operating conditions and issues.
Consequently, to be successful, a plant owner must consistently operate its
nuclear power plants at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase
operating costs by requiring the affected companies to generate additional
energy, sometimes at higher costs, from their fossil or hydroelectric facilities
or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy
their supply needs.  Although most of the Non-Utility Nuclear forward
sales are on a pure unit-contingent basis, which depends on the availability of
the asset, some of the unit-contingent contracts guarantee a specific capacity
factor.  Non-Utility Nuclear forward sales can also be on a Firm LD
basis.  In the event these plants were operating below the guaranteed
capacity factors, the unit-contingent contracts carrying damage provisions
would subject the Entergy System to price risk for the undelivered
power.

Certain
of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility
Nuclear subsidiaries periodically shutdown their nuclear power plants to
replenish fuel.  Plant maintenance and upgrades are often scheduled
during such fuel outages. If refueling outages last longer than anticipated or
if unplanned outages arise, Entergy's and their results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.

Outages
at nuclear power plants to replenish fuel require the plant to be "turned
off."  Refueling outages generally are planned to occur once every 18
to 24 months and have historically averaged approximately 30 days in
duration.  Plant maintenance and upgrades are often scheduled during
such planned outages.   When refueling outages last longer than
anticipated or a plant experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease
and maintenance costs increase.  The Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries
may face lower margins due to higher costs and lower energy sales for
unit-contingent power supply contracts or potentially higher energy replacement
costs for unit-contingent contracts with capacity guarantees that are not met
due to extended or unplanned outages.

Certain
of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility
Nuclear subsidiaries face risks related to the purchase of uranium fuel (and its
conversion, enrichment and fabrication), and their inability to effectively
manage these risks by purchasing from a diversified mix of sellers located in a
diversified mix of countries could materially adversely affect Entergy's and
their results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Based
upon currently planned fuel cycles, Entergy's nuclear units have a diversified
portfolio of contracts and inventory that provides substantially adequate
nuclear fuel materials and conversion and enrichment services at what Entergy
believes are reasonably predictable prices through most of 2010. It will be
necessary for Entergy to enter into additional arrangements to acquire nuclear
fuel and related services beyond 2010.  Entergy's ability to purchase
nuclear fuel at reasonably predictable prices depends upon the creditworthiness
and performance reliability of uranium miners, as well as upon the structure of
Entergy's contracts for the purchase of nuclear fuel. For example, some of the
supply under Entergy's contracts for nuclear fuel is effectively on a
"mine-contingent" basis, which means that if applicable mines are unable to
supply sufficient uranium, Entergy may be required to purchase some nuclear fuel
from another supplier. There are a number of possible alternate suppliers that
may be accessed to mitigate such an event, including potentially drawing upon
Entergy's own inventory intended for later generation periods depending upon its
risk management strategy at that time, although the pricing of any such
alternate uranium supply from the market will be dependent upon the market for
uranium supply at that time. The market for uranium supply became extremely
limited in 2006 and 2007, but this supply shortfall was substantially eliminated
in 2008 and 2009. Market prices for uranium concentrates rose from about $7 per
pound in December 2000 to a 2007 range of $70 to $135 per pound.  In
2008, however, market prices for uranium concentrates ranged from $45 to $90 per
pound and from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009 ranged from $40 to $55
per pound.  The recent higher nuclear fuel market prices of 2006-2009
compared to the 2000-2005 period affect the U.S. nuclear utility industry,
including Entergy, first in cash flow requirements for fuel acquisition, and
then, some time later, in nuclear fuel expenses. For example, for a nuclear
fleet the size of Entergy's, the current market value of annual
enriched


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

uranium
requirements has increased by several hundred million dollars compared to about
five years ago. As nuclear fuel installed in the core in nuclear power plants is
replaced fractionally over an approximate five-year period, nuclear fuel expense
is beginning to, and will eventually with a time lag, reflect current market
prices and can be expected to increase from the previously reported industry
levels of about 0.5 cents per kWh to closer to 1.0 cent per kWh. Entergy buys
uranium from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of
countries, and from time to time purchases from nearly all qualified reliable
major market participants worldwide that sell into the U.S.  Entergy's
nuclear fuel contract portfolio has provided a degree of price hedging against
the full extent of market prices through 2010, but market trends will eventually
affect the costs of all nuclear plant operators.  Entergy is dependent
on the continued performance by suppliers of their obligations under their
long-term agreements and Entergy’s ability to manage these risks by purchasing
uranium from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of
countries.  Entergy’s financial results could be materially adversely
affected if Entergy is unable to successfully manage these risks and any one
major supplier fails to fulfill its contractual obligations and Entergy is
unable to find other suppliers that can perform under terms that allow Entergy
to achieve the same level of profitability. As a result of the failure of a
major supplier to meet its contractual obligations or Entergy’s ability to
manage such a risk, Entergy may face higher costs to secure other suppliers,
which may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity of the Utility operating companies, System Energy and
the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries.

Certain
of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility
Nuclear subsidiaries face the risk that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission will
change or modify its regulations or suspend or revoke their licenses, which
could materially adversely affect Entergy's and their results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity.

Under the Atomic Energy Act and Energy
Reorganization Act, the NRC regulates the operation of nuclear power plants. The
NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and
impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related
regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the
Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a
substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased
operating or decommissioning costs and could materially adversely affect the
results of operations, liquidity or financial condition of Entergy (through its
ownership of the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries), its Utility operating
companies, System Energy or the Non-Utility Nuclear
subsidiaries.  Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as
those owned by one of these companies, may cause the NRC to initiate such
actions.  As a result, if an incident were to occur at any nuclear
generating unit –whether an Entergy nuclear generating unit or not - it could
materially adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity of Entergy, certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy
or the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries.

A
failure to obtain renewed licenses for the continued operation of Entergy’s
nuclear power plants could have a material adverse effect on Entergy's
operations and could lead to an increase in depreciation rates or an
acceleration of the timing for the funding of decommissioning
obligations.

The
license renewal and related processes for Entergy's nuclear power plants has
been and may continue to be the subject of significant public debate and
regulatory and legislative review and scrutiny at the federal and, in certain
cases, state level.   The operating licenses for Vermont Yankee,
Pilgrim, Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 expire between 2012 and 2015. Various
parties have expressed opposition to the pending license renewal
applications.  There is an ongoing proceeding before the Atomic Safety
and Licensing Board of the NRC and contentions have been admitted for litigation
regarding the Indian Point license renewals. The Atomic Safety and Licensing
Board has completed its proceedings regarding


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

Vermont
Yankee, but the New England Coalition filed a petition for NRC review of the
Atomic Safety Licensing Board’s decision on July 23, 2009. Finally, with respect
to the Pilgrim license renewal, the NRC has issued decisions resolving most of
the issues that were previously on appeal, but the NRC has asked for further
briefing regarding one final issue, which could later be referred back for
further proceedings before the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board. In addition, a
group of environmental and civic organizations has filed a petition with the NRC
seeking a suspension of the currently pending license renewal proceedings for
Indian Point, Pilgrim and Vermont Yankee.

In
relation to Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3, the New York Department of
Environmental Conservation has taken the position that Indian Point must obtain
a new state-issued Clean Water Act Section 401 water quality certification as
part of the license renewal process. Indian Point also must obtain a Coastal
Zone Management Act consistency determination from the New York Department of
State prior to getting its renewed license.

In
addition to the NRC license renewal process with respect to Vermont Yankee,
under Vermont law the Vermont Public Service Board will need to amend the
certificate of public good held by Entergy Vermont Yankee, LLC and Entergy
Nuclear Operations, Inc., which also requires Vermont legislative approval, and
the Vermont Public Service Board and the Vermont legislature must approve and
the Vermont Public Service Board must issue a certificate of public good for the
continued operation of Vermont Yankee and storing of spent fuel generated in
Vermont after March 21, 2012. An application has been filed with the Vermont
Public Service Board (as required by Vermont law) for approval of continued
operation and storage of spent nuclear fuel generated after that date. During
its 2009 session, which concluded in May, several committees of the Vermont
General Assembly held hearings on Vermont Yankee, but no bill or resolution was
introduced for approval of continued operation and storage of spent nuclear fuel
generated after March 21, 2012.  In January 2010, the Governor of the
State of Vermont issued a statement indicating he would not ask the Vermont
General Assembly to consider the Vermont Yankee license renewal during its 2010
session, based on the discovery of tritium leakage from Vermont Yankee, concerns
about miscommunication by Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee and Entergy Nuclear
Operations related to underground piping at Vermont Yankee carrying
radionuclides, and other issues including
decommissioning.  Notwithstanding the Governor's position, on February
24, 2010, a bill to approve the continued operation of Vermont Yankee was
advanced to a vote by the Vermont Senate leadership and defeated by a margin of
26 to 4.  This vote does not preclude the Vermont Senate from voting
again on a similar bill in the future.

If the
NRC does not renew the operating licenses for one or more of Entergy's nuclear
power plants, or the states in which Entergy’s nuclear power plants are located
do not otherwise take the necessary actions for the continued operation of these
plants, to the extent applicable, Entergy’s results of operations could be
materially adversely affected by loss of revenue associated with the plant or
plants, potential impairments of the carrying value of the plants, increased
depreciation rates, and an accelerated need for decommissioning funds, which
could require additional funding. In addition, Entergy may incur increased
operating costs depending on any conditions that may be imposed in connection
with license renewal.

Certain of the
Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear
subsidiaries  are exposed to risks and costs related to operating and
maintaining their  aging nuclear power plants, and their failure to
maintain operational efficiency at their nuclear power plants could materially
adversely affect Entergy's and  their results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity.

The nuclear generating units owned by
certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy,

and
Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear business began commercial operations in the
1970s-1980s.  Older equipment may require significant capital
expenditures to keep each of these nuclear power plants operating efficiently.
This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and
improvement.  Any unexpected failure, including failure associated
with breakdowns, forced outages or any unanticipated capital expenditures, could
result in reduced profitability.  Operations at any of the nuclear
generating units owned and operated by Entergy's subsidiaries could degrade to
the point where the affected unit needs to be shut down or operated at less than
full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may
require significant time and expense. A decision may be made to close a unit
rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the unit to full
capacity. For the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries, this could result in lost
revenue and increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply
commitments and penalties for failure to perform under their contracts with
customers.  Moreover, Entergy is becoming more dependent on fewer
suppliers for key parts of Entergy's nuclear power plants that may need to be
replaced or refurbished.  This dependence on a reduced number of
suppliers could result in delays in obtaining qualified replacement parts and,
therefore, greater expense for Entergy.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

The costs
associated with the storage of the spent nuclear fuel of certain of the Utility
operating companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries, as
well as the costs of and their ability to fully decommission their nuclear power
plants, could be significantly affected by the timing of the opening of a spent
nuclear fuel storage facility, as well as interim storage and transportation
requirements.

Certain of the Utility operating
companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries incur costs on
an annual basis for the on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel.  The
approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as
the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility
opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent
nuclear fuel.  For example, while the DOE is required by law to
proceed with the licensing of Yucca Mountain and, after the license is granted
by the NRC, to construct the repository and commence the receipt of spent fuel,
the Obama administration has cut the budget for the Yucca Mountain project, and
has made various statements that Yucca Mountain will not be the solution for
spent fuel storage. These actions are likely to prolong the time before spent
fuel is removed from Entergy’s plant sites. Because the DOE has not accomplished
its objectives, it is in non-compliance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of
1982 and has breached its spent fuel disposal contracts. Furthermore, Entergy is
uncertain as to when the DOE plans to commence acceptance of spent fuel from its
facilities for storage or disposal. As a result, continuing future expenditures
will be required to increase spent fuel storage capacity at its nuclear sites.
The costs of on-site storage are also affected by regulatory requirements for
such storage and will be subject to the costs of transportation to a permanent
storage facility. In addition, the availability of a repository for spent
nuclear fuel may affect the ability to fully decommission the nuclear units and
the costs relating to decommissioning.

Certain of the
Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear
subsidiaries  may be required to pay substantial retrospective
premiums imposed under the Price-Anderson Act in the event of a nuclear
incident, and losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse
effect on Entergy's and their results of operations, financial condition or
liquidity.

Accidents and other unforeseen problems
at nuclear power plants have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere.
The consequences of an accident can be severe and include personal injury, loss
of life and property damage.  The Price-Anderson Act limits each
reactor owner's public liability (off-site) for a single nuclear incident to the
payment of retrospective premiums into a secondary insurance pool of up to
approximately $117.5 million per reactor.  With 104 reactors currently
participating, this translates to a total public liability cap of approximately
$12.2 billion per incident.  The limit is subject to change to account
for the effects of inflation, a change in the primary limit of insurance
coverage, and changes in the number of licensed reactors.  As required
by the Price-Anderson Act, the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and
Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries carry the maximum available amount of primary
nuclear liability insurance with American Nuclear Insurers (currently $375
million for each operating site).  Claims for any nuclear incident
exceeding that amount are covered under the retrospective premiums paid into the
secondary insurance pool.  As a result, in the event of a nuclear
incident that causes damages (off-site) in excess of the $375 million in primary
insurance coverage, each owner of a nuclear plant reactor, including Entergy's
Utility operating companies, System Energy, and the Non-Utility Nuclear plant
owners, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident, will be required to
pay a retrospective premium, equal to its proportionate share of the loss in
excess of the $375 million primary level, up to a maximum of $117.5 million per
reactor per incident (Entergy's maximum total contingent obligation per incident
is $1.3 billion).  The retrospective premium payment is currently
limited to $17.5 million per year per reactor until the aggregate public
liability for each licensee is paid up to the $117.5 million cap. Nuclear
accident damage to on-site facilities is covered by Nuclear Electric Insurance
Limited up to the limits of the primary and excess property policies in force at
the time of the accident.  As an owner of nuclear power plants,
Entergy participates in these mandatory industry self-insurance programs and
could be liable to fund claims should a plant owned by a different company
experience a major event.  Any resulting liability from a nuclear
accident may exceed any of the Utility operating companies', System Energy's, or
the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries' primary insurance coverage, and require
contribution of additional funds through the industry-wide program that could
significantly affect the results of operations, financial condition or liquidity
of Entergy, certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy or the
Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

Market
performance and other changes may decrease the value of assets in the
decommissioning trusts, which then could require significant additional
funding.

Owners of nuclear generating plants
have an obligation to decommission those plants. Certain of the Utility
operating companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries
maintain decommissioning trust funds for this purpose.  Certain of the
Utility operating companies collect funds from their customers, which are
deposited into the trusts covering the units operated for or on behalf of those
companies. Those rate collections are based upon operating license lives as well
as estimated trust fund earnings and decommissioning costs. In connection with
the acquisition of certain nuclear plants, the Entergy Non-Utility Nuclear
subsidiaries also acquired decommissioning trust funds that are funded in
accordance with NRC regulations.  Assets in these trust funds are
subject to market fluctuations, will yield uncertain returns that may fall below
projected return rates, and may result in losses resulting from the recognition
of impairments of the value of certain securities held in these trust
funds.  As part of the Pilgrim, Indian Point 1 and 2, Vermont Yankee,
and Palisades/Big Rock Point purchases, the former owners transferred
decommissioning trust funds, along with the liability to decommission the
plants, to Entergy. As part of the Indian Point 1 and 2 purchase, Entergy also
funded an additional $25 million to a supplemental ecommissioning trust
fund.  As part of the Palisades transaction, Non-Utility Nuclear
assumed responsibility for spent fuel at the decommissioned Big Rock Point
nuclear plant, which is located near Charlevoix, Michigan. Once the spent fuel
is removed from the site, Non-Utility Nuclear will dismantle the spent fuel
storage facility and complete site decommissioning.  Non-Utility
Nuclear expects to fund this activity from operating revenue, and Entergy is
providing $5 million in credit support to provide financial assurance for this
obligation to the NRC.

In 2008,
Entergy experienced declines in the market value of assets held in the trust
funds for meeting its decommissioning funding assurance obligations for its
plants.  This decline adversely affected Entergy’s ability to
demonstrate compliance with the NRC’s requirements for providing financial
assurance for decommissioning funding for some of its plants.  In June
2009, the NRC issued letters indicating that the NRC staff had concluded that
there were shortfalls in the amount of decommissioning funding assurance
provided for Indian Point 2, Vermont Yankee, Palisades, Waterford 3, and River
Bend. The NRC staff subsequently conducted a telephone conference with Entergy
on this issue and, in August 2009, Entergy submitted a plan for addressing the
identified shortfalls.  In its submittal, Entergy provided updated
analyses to the NRC indicating that there was no current shortfall in the
amounts of the required decommissioning funding assurance for Palisades and
Indian Point 2, based upon the trust fund balances as of July 31, 2009 and an
analysis of the costs that would be incurred if Entergy elected to use a
sixty-year period of safe storage for decommissioning, as permitted by the NRC's
rules.  In December 2009 the NRC accepted the analyses regarding
Palisades and Indian Point and, with respect to each plant, the NRC concluded
that no further action was required.  For Vermont Yankee, Entergy
concluded that, when using the July 31, 2009 trust fund balance, and based on an
analysis of the costs that would be incurred if Entergy elected to use a sixty
year period of safe storage for decommissioning as permitted by the NRC’s rules,
there was a shortfall of approximately $58 million, which could be satisfied
with a cash contribution to a decommissioning trust of approximately $51
million, or by using another financial assurance mechanism in the amount of
approximately $58 million.  In September 2009, the NRC requested
further information regarding plans to address the shortfall in decommissioning
funding assurance for Vermont Yankee, which Entergy provided in October
2009.  Based on the trust fund balance as of September 30, 2009, the
shortfall had decreased from $58 million to $40 million.  This $40
million shortfall was satisfied with a $40 million guarantee from Entergy
Corporation that was effective as of December 31, 2009.  For Waterford
3 and River Bend, Entergy made the appropriate filings by December 31, 2009 with
its retail regulators that request decommissioning funding from ratepayers to
address the shortfalls identified by the NRC.

An early plant shutdown, poor
investment results (depending on the performance of and volatility in the
capital markets) or higher than anticipated decommissioning costs could cause
trust fund assets to be insufficient to meet the decommissioning obligations,
with the result that the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries may be required to
provide additional funds or credit support to satisfy regulatory requirements
for decommissioning.  For further information regarding nuclear
decommissioning costs, see the "

Critical
Accounting Estimates

–
Nuclear Decommissioning Costs

" section of Management's Financial
Discussion and Analysis for Entergy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy and Note 9 to the financial
statements.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

New
or existing safety concerns regarding operating nuclear power plants and nuclear
fuel could lead to restrictions upon the operation of Entergy’s nuclear power
plants.

New and
existing concerns are being expressed in public forums about the safety of
nuclear generating units and nuclear fuel, in particular in the northeastern
United States, which is where five of the six units in the current fleet of
Non-Utility Nuclear generating units are located.  These concerns have
led to, and are expected to continue to lead to, various proposals to Federal
regulators and governing bodies in some localities where Entergy's subsidiaries
own nuclear generating units for legislative and regulatory changes that could
lead to the shut-down of nuclear units, denial of license renewal applications,
municipalization of nuclear units, restrictions on nuclear units as a result of
unavailability of sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, or other
adverse effects on owning and operating nuclear generating
units.  Entergy vigorously responds to these concerns and
proposals.  If any of the existing proposals, or any proposals that
may arise in the future with respect to legislative and regulatory changes,
become effective, they could have a material adverse effect on Entergy's results
of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

(Entergy
Corporation)

The
decommissioning trust fund assets for the nuclear power plants owned by
Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries may not be adequate to meet
decommissioning obligations if one or more of their nuclear power plants is
retired earlier than the anticipated shutdown date or if current regulatory
requirements change which then could require additional
funding.

Under
Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations, Entergy is permitted to project the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission-required decommissioning amount based on a Nuclear
Regulatory Commission formula and the amount in each of its Non-Utility Nuclear
nuclear power plant's decommissioning trusts. The projections are made based on
the scheduled shutdown date and the mid-point of the subsequent decommissioning
process for each of  these nuclear power plants, with the earliest
scheduled shutdown being Vermont Yankee in 2012. As a result, if the projected
amount of our decommissioning trusts exceeds the projected Nuclear Regulatory
Commission-required decommissioning amount, then its decommissioning obligations
are considered to be funded in accordance with Nuclear Regulatory Commission
regulations. In the event the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's formula does not
sufficiently reflect the actual costs Entergy would be required to incur to
decommission these nuclear power plants, additional resources would be required.
Furthermore, depending upon the level of funding available in the trust funds,
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission may not permit the trust funds to be used to
pay for related costs such as the management of spent nuclear fuel that are not
included in the formula. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission may also require that
separate financial assurances be provided as part of a plan for the funding of
spent fuel management costs. In addition to Nuclear Regulatory Commission
requirements, certain of the states in which Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear
nuclear power plants are located have imposed other decommissioning related
obligations, which Entergy believes it will be able to satisfy.

With
respect to the decommissioning trusts for Vermont Yankee, Indian Point 2 and
Palisades, the total amount in each of those trusts as of December 31, 2009
would not have been sufficient to initiate and complete the immediate near-term
decommissioning of the respective unit as of such date, but rather the funds
would have been sufficient to place the unit in a condition of safe storage
status pending future completion of decommissioning. For example, if Entergy had
decided to shutdown and immediately begin decommissioning one of those nuclear
power plants on December 31, 2009, its trust funds for the plant would have
been insufficient and Entergy would have been required to rely on other capital
resources to fund the entire decommissioning obligations unless the completion
of decommissioning could be deferred during some number of years of safe storage
status. Thus, if Entergy decides to shutdown one of these nuclear power plants
earlier than the scheduled shutdown date, Entergy may be unable to rely upon
only the decommissioning trust to fund the entire decommissioning obligations,
which would require it to obtain funding from other sources.

Further,
federal or state regulatory changes, including mandated increases in
decommissioning funding, may also increase the funding requirements of, or
accelerate the timing for funding of, the obligations related to the
decommissioning of its Non-Utility Nuclear nuclear power plants. As a result,
under any of these circumstances, Entergy's results of operations, liquidity and
financial condition could be materially adversely affected.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

The
nuclear power plants owned by Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear business will be
exposed to price risk to the extent they must compete for the advance sale of
energy and capacity or accept spot prices in the day-ahead markets.

Entergy
and its subsidiaries are not guaranteed any rate of return on their capital
investments in non-utility regulated businesses. In particular, the sale of
capacity and energy from the nuclear power plants owned by Entergy's Non-Utility
Nuclear business, unless otherwise contracted, is subject to the fluctuation of
market power prices.  As of December 31, 2009, the nuclear power
generation plants owned by Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear business had sold
forward 88%, 74%, 32%, 18% and 17% of its generation portfolio's planned energy
output for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014, respectively.  Many of
Entergy’s Non-Utility Nuclear business’s existing long-term contracts expire by
the end of 2012.  The obligations under most of these agreements are
contingent on a generating asset that is operating; if the generation asset is
not operating, the seller generally is not liable for damages.  For
some unit-contingent obligations, however, there is also a guarantee of
availability that provides for the payment to the power purchaser of contract
damages, if incurred, in the event the unit owner fails to deliver power as a
result of the failure of the specified generation unit to generate power at or
above a specified availability threshold. In addition, for those obligations
that are not unit-contingent, the unit owner will be required to pay the
purchaser the difference between the market price at the delivery point and the
contract price, and the amount of such payments could be
substantial.

Market
prices may fluctuate substantially sometimes over relatively short periods of
time and at other times experience sustained increases or
decreases.  Demand for electricity and its fuel stock can fluctuate
dramatically, creating periods of substantial under- or
over-supply.  During periods of over-supply, prices might be
depressed. Also, from time to time there may be political pressure, or pressure
from regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over wholesale and retail energy
commodity and transportation rates, to impose price limitations, credit
requirements, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address volatility and other
issues in these markets.

The price
that different counterparties offer for forward sales is influenced both by
market conditions as well as the contract terms such as damage provisions,
credit support requirements and the number of available counterparties
interested in contracting for the desired forward period.  Depending
on differences between market factors at the time of contracting versus current
conditions, Non-Utility Nuclear's contract portfolio may have average contract
prices above or or below current market prices, including at the expiration of
the contracts, which could significantly affect Non-Utility Nuclear's results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Among the
factors that could affect market prices for electricity and fuel, all of which
are beyond Entergy's control to a significant degree, are:

·

prevailing
      market prices for natural gas, uranium (and its conversion, enrichment and
      fabrication), coal, oil, and other fuels used in electric generation
      plants, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such
      commodities;

·

seasonality;

·

availability
      of competitively priced alternative energy sources and the requirements of
      a renewable portfolio standard;

·

changes
      in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal and crude
      oil and refined products;

·

liquidity
      in the general wholesale electricity market, including the number of
      creditworthy counterparties available and interested in entering into
      forward sales agreements for Entergy’s full hedging
  term;

·

the
      actions of external parties, such as the FERC and local independent system
      operators and other state or Federal energy regulatory bodies, that may
      impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the
      volatility in the energy markets;

·

transmission
      or fuel transportation constraints, inoperability or
      inefficiencies;

·

the
      general demand for electricity, which may be significantly affected by
      regional economic conditions;

·

weather
      conditions affecting demand for electricity or availability of
      hydroelectric power or fuel
supplies;

·

the
      rate of growth in demand for electricity as a result of population
      changes, regional economic conditions and the implementation of
      conservation programs;


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

·

regulatory
      policies of state agencies that affect the willingness of Entergy's
      Non-Utility Nuclear customers to enter into long-term contracts generally,
      and contracts for energy in
particular;

·

increases
      in supplies due to actions of current Entergy Non-Utility Nuclear
      competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new
      generation facilities, expansion of existing generation facilities, the
      disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities and improvements in
      transmission that allow additional supply to reach Entergy's Non-Utility
      Nuclear markets;

·

union
      and labor relations;

·

changes
      in Federal and state energy and environmental laws and regulations and
      other initiatives, including but not limited to, the price impacts of
      proposed emission controls such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative
      (RGGI); and

·

natural
      disasters, terrorist actions, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic
      events.

Entergy's
Non-Utility Nuclear business is subject to substantial governmental regulation
and may be adversely affected by legislative, regulatory or market design
changes, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with,
existing or future regulations or requirements.

Entergy's
Non-Utility Nuclear business is subject to extensive federal, state and local
laws and regulation. Compliance with the requirements under these various
regulatory regimes may cause the Non-Utility Nuclear business to incur
significant additional costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could
result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens,
fines and/or civil or criminal liability.

Public
utilities under the Federal Power Act are required to obtain FERC acceptance of
their rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. Each of the Non-Utility
Nuclear business's nuclear power plants, as well as Entergy Nuclear Power
Marketing, LLC, is a "public utility" under the Federal Power Act by virtue of
making wholesale sales of electric energy.  The FERC has granted these
generating and power marketing companies the authority to sell electricity at
market-based rates.  The FERC’s orders that grant the Non-Utility
Nuclear business's generating and power marketing companies market-based rate
authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the FERC
subsequently determines that the Non-Utility Nuclear business can exercise
market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry, or engage
in abusive affiliate transactions. In addition, the Non-Utility Nuclear
business's market-based sales are subject to certain market behavior rules, and
if any of its generating and power marketing companies were deemed to have
violated one of those rules, they would be subject to potential disgorgement of
profits associated with the violation and/or suspension or revocation of their
market-based rate authority and potential penalties of up to $1 million per day
per violation.  If the Non-Utility Nuclear business's generating or
power marketing companies were to lose their market-based rate authority, such
companies would be required to obtain the FERC’s acceptance of a cost-of-service
rate schedule and could become subject to the accounting, record-keeping and
reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost-based rate
schedules.  This could have an adverse effect on the rates the
Non-Utility Nuclear business charges for power from its facilities.

The
Non-Utility Nuclear business is also affected by legislative and regulatory
changes, as well as changes to market design, market rules, tariffs, cost
allocations and bidding rules imposed by the existing Independent System
Operators.  The Independent System Operators that oversee most of the
wholesale power markets impose, and in the future may continue to impose,
mitigation, including price limitations, offer caps and other mechanisms, to
address some of the volatility and the potential exercise of market power in
these markets.  These types of price limitations and other regulatory
mechanisms may have an adverse effect on the profitability of the Non-Utility
Nuclear business's generation facilities that sell energy and capacity into the
wholesale power markets.

The
regulatory environment applicable to the electric power industry has undergone
substantial changes over the past several years as a result of restructuring
initiatives at both the state and federal levels.  These changes are
ongoing and Entergy cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power
markets or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment will
have on the Non-Utility Nuclear business.  In addition, in some of
these markets, interested parties have proposed material market design changes,
including the elimination of a single clearing price mechanism and claims that
the competitive marketplace is not working because energy prices in wholesale
markets exceed the marginal cost of operating nuclear power plants, as well as
proposals to re-regulate the markets, impose a generation tax or require
divestitures by generating companies to reduce their market share.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

Other
proposals to re-regulate may be made and legislative or other attention to the
electric power market restructuring process may delay or reverse the
deregulation process, which could require material changes to business planning
models.  If competitive restructuring of the electric power markets is
reversed, modified, discontinued or delayed, the Non-Utility Nuclear business's
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially
adversely affected.

General Business
Risks

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

Entergy
and the Utility operating companies depend on access to the capital markets and,
at times, may face potential liquidity constraints, which could make it more
difficult to handle future contingencies such as natural disasters or
substantial increases in gas and fuel prices.  Disruptions in the
capital and credit markets may adversely affect Entergy and its subsidiaries'
ability to meet liquidity needs, access capital and operate and grow their
businesses, and the cost of capital.

Entergy's
business is capital intensive and dependent upon its ability to access capital
at reasonable rates and other terms.  At times there are also spikes
in the price for natural gas and other commodities that increase the liquidity
requirements of the Utility operating companies.  In addition,
Entergy's and the Utility operating companies' liquidity needs could
significantly increase in the event of a hurricane or other weather-related or
unforeseen disaster similar to that experienced in Entergy's service territory
with Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita in 2005 and Hurricane Gustav and
Hurricane Ike in 2008.  The occurrence of one or more contingencies,
including a delay in regulatory recovery of fuel or purchased power costs or
storm restoration costs, higher than expected pension contributions, an
acceleration of payments or decreased credit lines, less cash flow from
operations than expected or other unknown events, such as future storms, could
cause the financing needs of Entergy and its subsidiaries to
increase.  In addition, accessing the capital markets more frequently
in these situations may result in an increase in leverage.  Material
leverage increases could negatively affect the credit ratings of Entergy and the
Utility operating companies, which in turn could negatively affect access to the
capital markets.

The
global capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption
in the fourth quarter of 2008 and much of 2009.  The inability to
raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in
the capital markets, could negatively affect Entergy and its subsidiaries'
ability to maintain and to expand their businesses.  Events beyond
Entergy's control, such as the volatility and disruption in global capital and
credit markets in 2008 and 2009, may create uncertainty that could increase its
cost of capital or impair its ability to access the capital markets, including
the ability to draw on its bank credit facilities.  Entergy and its
subsidiaries are unable to predict the degree of success they will have in
renewing or replacing their credit facilities as they come up for
renewal.  Moreover, the size, terms, and covenants of any new credit
facilities may not be comparable to, and may be more restrictive than, existing
facilities.  If Entergy and its subsidiaries are unable to access the
credit and capital markets on terms that are reasonable, they may have to delay
raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and/or bear an unfavorable cost
of capital, which, in turn, could impact their ability to grow their businesses,
decrease earnings, significantly reduce financial flexibility and/or limit
Entergy's ability to sustain its current common stock dividend
level.

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System
Energy)

A downgrade in Entergy
Corporation

'

s or its
subsidiaries

'

credit
ratings could negatively affect Entergy Corporation

'

s and its subsidiaries

'

ability to access capital and/or
could require Entergy Corporation or its subsidiaries to post collateral,
accelerate certain payments or repay certain indebtedness.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

There are
a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings
for Entergy Corporation and the Registrant Subsidiaries, including the ability
to cover liquidity requirements, the availability of committed external credit
support, and Entergy Corporation's share repurchase program, dividend policy and
other commitments for capital.  If one or more rating agencies
downgrade Entergy Corporation's, any of the Utility operating companies', or
System Entergy's ratings, particularly below investment grade, borrowing costs
would increase, the potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely
decrease, and cash or letter of credit quality collateral demands may be
triggered by the terms of a number of commodity contracts, leases and other
agreements.

Most of
Entergy Corporation's and its subsidiaries' large customers, suppliers and
counterparties require sufficient creditworthiness to enter into
transactions.  If Entergy Corporation's or its subsidiaries' ratings
decline, particularly below investment grade, or if certain counterparties
believe Entergy Corporation or the Utility operating companies are losing
creditworthiness and demand adequate assurance under fuel, gas and purchased
power contracts, the counterparties may require posting of collateral in cash or
letters of credit, prepayment for fuel, gas or purchased power or accelerated
payment, or counterparties may decline business with Entergy Corporation or its
subsidiaries. At December 31, 2009, based on power prices at that time, Entergy
had $369 million of collateral in place to support Entergy Nuclear Power
Marketing transactional activity, consisting primarily of Entergy Corporation
guarantees, but also including $20 million of guarantees that support letters of
credit and $2 million of cash collateral. As of December 31, 2009, the credit
exposure associated with Non-Utility Nuclear assurance requirements could
increase by an estimated amount of up to $308 million for each $1 per MMBtu
increase in gas prices in both the short- and long-term markets, but because
market prices have fallen below most contract prices, the credit exposure would
increase by only $8 million.  In the event of a decrease in Entergy
Corporation's credit rating to below investment grade, based on power prices as
of December 31, 2009, Entergy would have been required to provide approximately
$73 million of additional cash or letters of credit under some of the
agreements.  The amount of Entergy Corporation guarantees Entergy
would be required to replace will fluctuate depending on changes in power
prices.

The
construction of, and capital improvements to, power generation facilities
involve substantial risks.  Should construction or capital improvement
efforts be unsuccessful, the financial conditions, results of operations or
liquidity of Entergy  and the Utility operating companies could be
materially adversely affected.

Entergy's
and the Utility operating companies' ability to complete construction of power
generation facilities in a timely manner and within budget is contingent upon
many variables and subject to substantial risks. These variables include,
but are not limited to, project management expertise and escalating costs for
materials, labor and environmental compliance. Delays in obtaining permits,
shortages in materials and qualified labor, suppliers and contractors not
performing as required under their contracts, changes in the scope and timing of
projects, the inability to raise capital on favorable terms, and other events
beyond the control of the Utility operating companies may occur that may
materially affect the schedule, cost and performance of these
projects.  If these projects are significantly delayed or become
subject to cost overruns or cancellation, Entergy and the Utility operating
companies could incur additional costs and termination payments, or face
increased risk of potential write-off of the investment in the
project.  For further information regarding capital expenditure plans
and other uses of capital in connection with the potential construction of
additional generation supply sources within the Utility operating companies'
service territory, see the "

Capital
Expenditure Plans and Other Uses of Capital

" section of Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy and each of the Registrant
Subsidiaries.

The
Utility operating companies, System Energy and Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear
business may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to
reliability standards, environmental, and other matters.

The
businesses in which the Utility operating companies, System Energy and the
Non-Utility Nuclear business operate are subject to extensive environmental
regulation by local, state and Federal authorities.  These laws and
regulations affect the manner in which the Utility operating companies, System
Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear business conduct their operations and make
capital expenditures.  These laws and regulations also affect how the
Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear business
manage air emissions, discharges to water, solid and hazardous waste storage and
disposal, cooling and service water intake, the protection of threatened and
endangered


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

species,
hazardous materials transportation, and similar matters.  Federal, state,
and local authorities continually revise these laws and regulations, and the
laws and regulations are subject to judicial interpretation and to the
permitting and enforcement discretion vested in the implementing agencies.
Developing and implementing plans for facility compliance with these
requirements can lead to capital, personnel, and operation and maintenance
expenditures.  Violations of these requirements can subject the Utility
operating companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear business to
enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into
compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve
compliance, remediation and clean-up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to
third parties' claims for alleged health or property damages or for violations
of applicable permits or standards.  In addition, the Utility operating
companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear business are subject to
liability under these laws for the costs of remediation of environmental
contamination of property now or formerly owned or operated by the Utility
operating companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear business and of
property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate.  The Utility
operating companies are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites
where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional
proceedings in the future.  The Utility operating companies, System Energy
and the Non-Utility Nuclear business have incurred and expect to incur
significant costs related to environmental compliance.

Emissions
of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury, particulates, and other regulated air
contaminants from fossil-fueled generating plants are potentially subject to
increased regulation, controls and mitigation expenses.  In addition,
existing air regulations and programs promulgated by the EPA often are
challenged legally, sometimes resulting in large-scale changes to anticipated
regulatory regimes.  Risks relating to global climate change and
initiatives to compel CO


emission
reductions are discussed below.

Entergy's
business is also subject to extensive and mandatory reliability
standards.  Such standards, which are established by the North
American Electric Reliability Corporation and the SERC Reliability Corporation,
are approved by the FERC and currently are being reviewed and
amended.  Significant capital expenditures for the Utility operating
companies' transmission system could be required to achieve on-going compliance
with the requirements under these regimes, and failure to comply with such
requirements could result in the imposition of fines or civil penalties, and
exposure to third party claims for alleged violations of applicable
standards.  The laws and regulations are subject to judicial
interpretation and to the enforcement discretion vested in the implementing
agencies.  The changes to the reliability requirements applicable to
the electric power industry are ongoing, and Entergy cannot predict the ultimate
effect that the changing reliability requirements will have on its
business.

Entergy
and its subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain all required
environmental regulatory approvals.  If there is a delay in obtaining any
required environmental regulatory approvals, or if Entergy and its subsidiaries
fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, the operation of its
facilities could be stopped or become subject to additional costs. For further
information regarding environmental regulation and environmental matters, see
the "

Regulation
of Entergy

'

s
Business

– Environmental
Regulation

" section of Part I Item 1.

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

The effects of weather and economic
conditions and the related impact on electricity and gas usage, may materially
adversely affect the Utility operating companies

'

results of
operations.

Temperatures
above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity
demand and revenues, and temperatures below moderate levels in the winter tend
to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and
revenues.  As a corollary, moderate temperatures tend to decrease
usage of energy and resulting revenues. Seasonal pricing differentials, coupled
with higher consumption levels, typically cause the Utility operating companies
to report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year than in the
other quarters.  Extreme weather conditions or
storms,  however, may stress the Utility operating companies'
generation facilities and transmission and distribution systems, resulting in
increased maintenance and capital costs (and potential increased financing
needs), limits on their ability to meet peak customer demand, increased
regulatory oversight, and lower customer satisfaction.  These extreme
conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Utility operating
companies' financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

Industrial
sales volume was depressed in the latter part of 2008 and through most of 2009,
in part because the overall economy declined, with lower usage across the
industrial sector affecting both the large customer industrial segment as well
as small and mid-sized industrial customers.  Despite the apparently
improving economic conditions in the service territories of the Utility
operating companies in the fourth quarter of 2009, it  is possible that
continued or recurrent poor economic conditions, combined with increasing rates
in certain of the Utility operating companies' service territories, could result
in slower or declining sales growth and increased bad debt expense relative to
recent years, which could materially adversely affect Entergy's and the Utility
operating companies' results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity.

The effects of climate change and
environmental and regulatory obligations intended to compel CO


emission
reductions could materially adversely affect the financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity of Entergy and the Utility operating
companies.

In an
effort to address climate change concerns, Federal, state, and local authorities
are calling for additional laws and regulations aimed at known or suspected
causes of climate change.  For example, in response to the United
States Supreme Court's 2007 decision holding that the EPA has authority to
regulate emissions of CO


and other
"greenhouse gases" under the Clean Air Act, the EPA, various environmental
interest groups and other organizations are focusing considerable attention on
CO


emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate
change.  Developing and implementing plans for compliance with CO


emissions
reduction requirements can lead to additional capital, personnel, and operation
and maintenance expenditures. Violations of such requirements may subject
Entergy and the Utility operating companies to enforcement actions, capital
expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating
costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean-up
costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties' claims for alleged health
or property damages or for violations of applicable permits or
standards.  To the extent Entergy believes any of these costs are
recoverable in rates, however, additional material rate increases for customers
could be resisted by Entergy's regulators and, in extreme cases, Entergy's
regulators might deny or defer timely recovery of these costs.  Future
changes in environmental regulation governing the emission of CO


and other
"greenhouse gases" could make some of Entergy's electric generating units
uneconomical to maintain or operate, and could increase the difficulty that
Entergy and its subsidiaries have with obtaining or maintaining required
environmental regulatory approvals, which could also materially adversely affect
the financial condition, results of operations and liquidity of Entergy and the
Utility operating companies.  In addition, several lawsuits currently
are pending against emitters of greenhouse gases alleging that these companies
are liable for personal injuries and property damage caused by climate
change.  These lawsuits seek injunctive relief, monetary compensation
and punitive damages.

In addition to the regulatory and
financial risks associated with climate change discussed above, physical risks
from climate change include an increase in sea level, wetland and barrier island
erosion, risks of flooding and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in
precipitation, average temperatures and potential increased impacts of extreme
weather conditions or storms.  Entergy owns assets in, and serves,
communities that are at risk from sea level rise, changes in weather conditions,
storms and loss of the protection offered by coastal wetlands.  A
significant portion of the nation’s oil and gas infrastructure is located in
these areas and susceptible to storm damage that could be aggravated by wetland
and barrier island erosion, which could give rise to fuel supply interruptions
and price spikes.

These and other physical changes could
result in changes in customer demand, increased costs associated with repairing
and maintaining generation facilities and transmission and distribution systems
resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs (and potential increased
financing needs), limits on the Entergy System's ability to meet peak customer
demand, increased regulatory oversight, and lower customer
satisfaction.  Also, to the extent that climate change adversely
impacts the economic health of a region or results in energy conservation or
demand side management programs, it may adversely impact customer demand and
revenues.  Such physical or operational risks could have a material
adverse effect on Entergy's and the Utility operating companies' financial
condition, results of operations and liquidity.

Entergy
and its subsidiaries may not be adequately hedged against changes in commodity
prices, which could materially adversely affect Entergy's and its subsidiaries'
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

To manage
their near-term financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations,
Entergy and its subsidiaries may enter into contracts to hedge portions of their
purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements and
inventories of natural gas, uranium (and its conversion), lignite, coal, refined
products, and other commodities, within established risk management
guidelines.  As part of this strategy, Entergy and its subsidiaries
may utilize fixed- and variable-price forward physical purchase and sales
contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the
over-the-counter markets or on exchanges.  However, Entergy and its
subsidiaries normally cover only a portion of the exposure of their assets and
positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over
time.  In addition, Entergy also elects to leave certain volumes
during certain years unhedged.  To the extent Entergy and its
subsidiaries have unhedged positions, fluctuating commodity prices can
materially adversely affect Entergy's and its subsidiaries' results of
operations and financial position.

Although
Entergy and its subsidiaries devote a considerable effort to these risk
management strategies, they cannot eliminate all the risks associated with these
activities.  As a result of these and other factors, Entergy and its
subsidiaries cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management
decisions may have on their business, results of operations or financial
position.

Entergy
has guaranteed or indemnified the performance of a portion of the obligations
relating to hedging and risk management activities. Reductions in Entergy's or
its subsidiaries' credit quality or changes in the market prices of energy
commodities could increase the cash or Letter of Credit quality collateral
required to be posted in connection with hedging and risk management activities,
which could materially affect Entergy's or its subsidiaries' liquidity and
financial position.

The Utility operating companies and
Entergy

'

s Non-Utility
Nuclear business are exposed to the risk that counterparties may not meet their
obligations, which may materially adversely affect the Utility operating
companies' and Non-Utility Nuclear's business.

Entergy's
Utility operating companies' and its Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries' hedging
and risk management activities are exposed to the risk that counterparties that
owe Entergy and its subsidiaries money, energy, or other commodities will not
perform their obligations. Currently, some hedging agreements contain provisions
that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure their
obligations to Entergy or its subsidiaries. If the counterparties to these
arrangements fail to perform, Entergy or its subsidiaries might be forced to act
on the credit support provided and acquire alternative hedging arrangements or
draw on the credit support provided by the counterparties, which credit support
may not always be adequate to cover the related obligations. In such event,
Entergy and its subsidiaries might incur losses in addition to amounts, if any,
already paid to the counterparties. In addition, the credit commitments of
Entergy's lenders under its bank facilities may not be honored for a variety of
reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress affecting such
lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of its liquidity
sources.

New
legislation may subject the Utility operating companies and Entergy’s
Non-Utility Nuclear business to governmental regulation of energy derivatives
used in hedging and risk management transactions, which may  materially
adversely affect the Utility operating companies’ and Entergy’s 
Non-Utility Nuclear business.

New
legislation may subject the Utility operating companies and Entergy’s
Non-Utility Nuclear business to governmental regulation relating to certain
hedging transactions. For example, Congress is considering legislation to impose
restrictions on the use of over-the-counter derivatives, including energy
derivatives. The United States House of Representatives passed its version of
the legislation (H.R. 4173, Title III) on December 11, 2009. If such legislation
becomes law, Entergy’s subsidiaries could potentially face higher costs to hedge
their risks, fewer potential counterparties still active in the newly regulated
marketplace, and increased liquidity requirements. Under the proposed
legislation, hedging and other risk management transactions conducted by the
Utility operating companies and Entergy’s Non-Utility Nuclear business would be
regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. If such legislation were
to become law without the addition of appropriate exemptions for energy
transactions and energy markets, then Entergy believes that the forward hedging
strategies and other risk management activities of its subsidiaries could either
be curtailed or become significantly more expensive. A substantial number of
these hedge transactions currently used by Entergy’s subsidiaries rely upon
bilaterally negotiated contracts that are unsecured or utilize corporate
guarantees or fixed credit support


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

structures.
If Entergy’s subsidiaries were to be required to “clear” their transactions, or
to post margin based on the mark-to-market forward price of power (as margin is
calculated by Commodity Futures Trading Commission-regulated exchanges and
clearing entities), then these subsidiaries would need to arrange a substantial
amount of additional liquidity in order to maintain their current level of
hedging and risk management activities.

Market
performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plan assets,
which then could require significant additional funding.

The
performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in
trust under Entergy's pension and postretirement benefit plans. A decline in the
market value of the assets may increase the funding requirements relating to
Entergy's benefit plan liabilities. The recent significant volatility in the
capital markets has affected the market value of these assets, which may affect
Entergy's planned levels of contributions in the future. Additionally, changes
in interest rates affect the liabilities under Entergy's pension and
postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities
increase, potentially requiring additional funding. The funding requirements of
the obligations related to the pension benefit plans can also increase as a
result of changes in retirement rates, life expectancy assumptions, or Federal
regulations.  Guidance pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006
rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and beyond, continues to evolve, be
interpreted through technical corrections bills and discussed within the
industry and by congressional lawmakers.  Any changes to the Pension
Protection Act of 2006 as a result of these discussions and efforts may affect
the level of Entergy's pension contributions in the future. For further
information regarding Entergy's pension and other postretirement benefit plans,
reference is made to the "

Critical
Accounting Estimates

–
Qualified Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

" section of
Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy and each of its
Registrant Subsidiaries and Note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements.

The
litigation environment in the states in which certain Entergy subsidiaries
operate poses a significant risk to those businesses.

Entergy
and its subsidiaries are involved in the ordinary course of business in a number
of lawsuits involving employment, commercial, asbestos, hazardous material and
ratepayer matters, and injuries and damages issues, among other matters. States
in which the Utility operating companies operate, in particular Louisiana,
Mississippi and Texas, have proven to be unusually litigious
environments.  Judges and juries in these states have demonstrated a
willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs
in personal injury, property damage, and business tort cases.  Entergy
and its subsidiaries use legal and appropriate means to contest litigation
threatened or filed against them, but the litigation environment in these states
poses a significant business risk.

Terrorist attacks, future war or risk
of war may adversely affect Entergy's results of operations.

As power generators, Entergy and its
subsidiaries face heightened risk of an act of terrorism, either as a direct act
against one of Entergy's generation facilities or an act against the
transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport power which
affects its ability to operate.  If such an attack were to occur, Entergy's
business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially
adversely affected.  The risk of terrorist attacks also may cause
Entergy to incur increased capital and operating costs to implement increased
security for its nuclear power plants, such as additional physical facility
security and additional security personnel.

Changes in taxation as well as the
inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions
could negatively impact Entergy

'

s, the Utility operating companies'
and System Energy's results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity.

Entergy
and its subsidiaries make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of
various financial transactions and results of operations to estimate their
obligations to taxing authorities.  These tax obligations include
income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related
taxes.  These judgments include reserves for potential adverse
outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken.  Entergy and
its subsidiaries also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including
those in the form of carryforwards for which the


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

benefits
have already been reflected in the financial statements.  Changes in
Federal, state, or local tax laws, adverse tax audit results or adverse tax
rulings on positions taken by Entergy and its subsidiaries could negatively
affect Entergy's, the Utility operating companies' and System Energy's results
of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  For further
information regarding Entergy's accounting for tax obligations, reference is
made to Note 3 to the financial statements.

(Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans)

The effect of higher purchased gas
cost charges to customers may adversely affect Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's
and Entergy New Orleans

'

results of operations and liquidity.

Gas rates
charged to customers are comprised primarily of purchased gas cost charges,
which provide no return or profit to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana or Entergy
New Orleans, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to the
utility.  Distribution charges are affected by the amount of gas sold
to customers. Purchased gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customer's
bill and may be adjusted quarterly, represent gas commodity costs that Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana or Entergy New Orleans recovers from its
customers.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's or Entergy New Orleans'
cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when gas is
purchased and the time when ultimate recovery from customers
occurs.  When purchased gas cost charges increase substantially
reflecting higher gas procurement costs incurred by Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana or Entergy New Orleans, customer usage may decrease, especially in
weaker economic times, resulting in lower distribution charges for Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana or Entergy New Orleans.

(System
Energy)

System
Energy owns and operates a single nuclear generating facility, and it is
dependent on affiliated companies for all of its revenues.

System
Energy's operating revenues are derived from the allocation of the capacity,
energy, and related costs associated with its 90% ownership/leasehold interest
in Grand Gulf.  Charges under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are paid
by the Utility operating companies as consideration for their respective
entitlements to receive capacity and energy and are payable on a full
cost-of-service basis only so long as Grand Gulf remains in commercial
operation.  The useful economic life of Grand Gulf is finite and is
limited by the terms of its operating license, which is currently due to expire
on November 1, 2024.  System Energy's financial condition depends both
on the receipt of payments from the Utility operating companies under the Unit
Power Sales Agreement and on the continued commercial operation of Grand
Gulf.  For information regarding the Unit Power Sales Agreement and
certain other agreements relating to the Entergy System companies' support of
System Energy (including the Capital Funds Agreement), see the "Grand Gulf -
Related Agreements" section of Note 8 to the financial statements and the
"Utility - System Energy and Related Agreements" section of Part I Item
1.

(Entergy
Corporation)

Entergy Corporation

'

s holding company structure could
limit its ability to pay dividends.

Entergy
Corporation is a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of
its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its
subsidiaries.  Entergy Corporation's ability to pay dividends on its
common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends or distributions by its
subsidiaries. The payments of dividends or distributions to Entergy Corporation
by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows
and other items affecting retained earnings.  Provisions in the
organizational documents, indentures for debt issuances and other agreements of
certain of Entergy Corporation's subsidiaries restrict the payment of cash
dividends to Entergy Corporation.  For further information regarding
dividend or distribution restrictions to Entergy Corporation, reference is made
to the "

COMMON EQUITY –

Retained
Earnings and Dividend Restrictions

" section of Note 7 to the financial
statements.

Entergy
Corporation's proposed spin-off of its Non-Utility Nuclear business is subject
to risks inherent to a large-scale transaction subject to regulatory approvals
and the completion of complex financings.


Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

The proposed spin-off of Entergy
Corporation's Non-Utility Nuclear business is subject to multiple risks and
uncertainties, including the risk that the spin-off will not be consummated, the
risk that the financing transactions contemplated as part of the spin-off cannot
be consummated on terms and conditions acceptable to Entergy Corporation or the
risk that state and Federal regulatory jurisdictions may impose conditions to
the transaction not acceptable to Entergy Corporation.  If the
spin-off is consummated, it is possible that Entergy Corporation or Enexus
Energy Corporation, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy whose shares will be
distributed in the spin-off , may not achieve the full strategic and financial
benefits that they expect will result from the transaction or that such benefits
may be delayed or not occur due to unforeseen changes in market and economic
conditions or other events.  As a result, the aggregate market price
of the common stock of Entergy Corporation and Enexus Energy Corporation as
separate companies could be less than the market price of Entergy Corporation's
common stock if the spin-off had not occurred.