10-K


bk201310-k.htm

10-K

BK 2013 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

[ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2013

or

[    ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

Commission File No. 001-35651

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

One Wall Street

New York, New York 10286

(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code -- (212) 495-1784

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   Yes

X

No   ___

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   Yes  ___    No

X

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes

X

No   ___

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).   Yes

X

No   ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

X

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes   ___    No

X

As of June 30, 2013, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, held by nonaffiliates of the registrant was

$32,189,234,547

.

As of January 31, 2014,

1,135,050,512

shares of the registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference in the following parts of this Form 10-K:

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2014 Proxy Statement-Part III

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2013 Annual Report to Shareholders-Parts I, II and IV

Available Information

This Form 10‑K filed by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (“BNY Mellon” or the “Company”) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) contains the Exhibits listed on the Index to Exhibits beginning on page


, including those portions of BNY Mellon’s 2013 Annual Report to Shareholders (the “Annual Report”), which are incorporated herein by reference.  For a free copy of the Annual Report or BNY Mellon’s Proxy Statement for its 2014 Annual Meeting (the “Proxy”), as filed with the SEC, send a written request by email to investorrelations@bnymellon.com or by mail to Investor Relations at The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286.  The Annual Report is, and the Proxy upon filing with the SEC will be, available on our website at www.bnymellon.com.  We also make available, free of charge, on our website BNY Mellon’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).  We also make available, free of charge, our Earnings Release, Earnings Review and Financial Trends on our website at www.bnymellon.com.  The following materials are also available, free of charge, on our website at www.bnymellon.com under “Investor Relations, Corporate Governance” and are also available free of charge in print by written request to Investor Relations at The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation at One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286, or investorrelations@bnymellon.com:

•

BNY Mellon’s Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all employees, including BNY Mellon’s senior financial officers;

•

BNY Mellon’s Directors’ Code of Conduct, which is applicable to our directors;

•

BNY Mellon’s Corporate Governance Guidelines; and

•

the Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Corporate Social Responsibility, Human Resources and Compensation, Risk and

Technology Committees of the Board of Directors.

The contents of BNY Mellon’s website or any other websites referenced herein are not part of this Form 10-K.

Forward-looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains statements relating to future results of BNY Mellon that are considered “forward-looking statements.”  These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things:  all statements about the future results of BNY Mellon, projected business growth, statements with respect to the expected outcome and impact of legal, regulatory and investigatory proceedings, and BNY Mellon’s plans, objectives and strategies. In addition, these forward-looking statements relate to, among others:  our levels and types of competition, our business strategy, the adequacy of our facilities, disclosure on our Codes of Conduct and the ongoing enhancements to our data collection processes and systems relating to assets under custody and/or administration and other information in our public filings.

These forward-looking statements, and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of BNY Mellon (including those incorporated into this Form 10-K) are based on assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon’s control), including those factors described in the Annual Report under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) – Risk Factors.”

Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of a number of factors, including those discussed in the “Risk Factors” section of our Annual Report, such as: government regulation and supervision, and recent legislative and regulatory actions; regulatory actions or litigation; adverse publicity with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally; continued litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings involving our foreign exchange standing instruction program; failure to satisfy regulatory standards, including capital adequacy

BNY Mellon  1

rules; operational risk; failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures; disruption or breach in security of our information systems that results in a loss of confidential client information or impacts our ability to provide services to our clients; failure to update our technology; change or uncertainty in monetary, tax and other governmental policies; intense competition in all aspects of our business; the risks relating to new lines of business or new products and services, and the failure to grow our existing businesses; failure to attract and retain employees; political, economic, legal, operational and other risks inherent in operating globally; acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics and global conflicts; our strategic acquisitions, including our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and potential liabilities from legacy claims against the acquired businesses; ongoing concerns about the financial stability of several countries in Europe, the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties in Europe, or a breakup of the European Monetary Union; continuing uncertainty in financial markets and weakness in the economy generally; low or volatile interest rates; market volatility; further write-downs of financial instruments that we own and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions; our dependence on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and the potential adverse effects of a slowing in capital market activity, weak financial markets or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences; the impact of a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity on our foreign exchange revenues; any material reduction in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of certain of our subsidiaries; the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, and our assumption of credit and counterparty risk; credit, regulatory and reputation risks as a result of our tri-party repo agent services; the impact of not effectively managing our liquidity; inadequate reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves; tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions; changes in accounting standards; risks associated with being a holding

company, including our dependence on dividends from our subsidiary banks; and the impact of provisions of Delaware law and the Federal Reserve on our ability to return capital to shareholders.

In this Form 10-K, and other public disclosures of BNY Mellon, words such as “estimate”, “forecast”, “project”, “anticipate”, “target”, “expect”, “intend”, “continue”, “seek”, “believe”, “plan”, “goal”, “could”, “should”, “may”, “will”, “strategy”, “opportunities”, “trends” and words of similar meaning signify forward-looking statements.

All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such forward-looking statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

2  BNY Mellon

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION

FORM 10-K INDEX

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Description of Business

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (NYSE symbol: BK), is a global investments company headquartered in New York, New York, with $27.6 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration and $1.6 trillion in assets under management as of

Dec. 31, 2013

.

We divide our businesses into two principal segments, Investment Management and Investment Services.  We have an Other segment, which includes credit-related services, the leasing portfolio, corporate treasury activities (including our investment securities portfolio), our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank Limited, our equity interest in ConvergEx Group, business exits and corporate overhead.

For a further discussion of BNY Mellon’s products and services, see the “Overview”, “Summary of financial results”, “Fee and other revenue – Foreign exchange and other trading revenue”, “Review of businesses” and “International operations” sections in the MD&A section in the Annual Report and Notes 24 and 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  See the  “Available Information” section on page 1 of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon.

We were formed as a bank holding company (“BHC”) and have our executive offices in New York, New York. With its subsidiaries, BNY Mellon has been in business since 1784.

On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation (“Mellon Financial”) merged into BNY Mellon, with BNY Mellon being the surviving entity (the “merger”).

Our two principal banks are:

•

The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state chartered bank, which houses our Investment Services businesses, including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and Advisor Services as well as the bank-advised business of Asset Management.

•

BNY Mellon, National Association (“BNY Mellon, N.A.”), a nationally-chartered bank, which houses our Wealth Management business.

Our two principal U.S. banks engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities.

We have four other U.S. bank and/or trust companies concentrating on trust products and services across the United States: The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, BNY Mellon Investment Servicing Trust Company and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois.  Most of our asset management businesses, along with our Pershing businesses, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of BNY Mellon.

Each of our bank and trust companies are subject to regulation by the applicable banking regulatory authority.  The deposits of our U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to the extent provided by law.

BNY Mellon’s branches and subsidiaries outside the United States are subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulatory authorities in addition to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”).

The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV (“BNYMSA”) is the main banking subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon in continental Europe.   It is authorized and regulated as a credit institution by the National Bank of Belgium.  BNYMSA has its principal office in Brussels and branches in Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Dublin, Ireland; Frankfurt, Germany; London, England; the City of Luxembourg, Luxembourg and Paris, France.  BNYMSA’s activities are in the Investment Services segment of BNY Mellon with a focus on global custody, asset servicing and collateral management.  For additional discussion, see the “MD&A —Supervision and Regulation” section in the Annual Report.

Information on international operations is presented in the “Net interest revenue”, “Income tax”, “Review of businesses”, “International operations”, “Consolidated balance sheet review” and “Supervision and Regulation” sections in the MD&A section in the Annual Report, Notes 4, 5 and 25 of the

4  BNY Mellon

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report and in “Risk Factors – We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating globally and which may adversely affect our business” in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

Primary Subsidiaries

Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon’s primary subsidiaries as of

Dec. 31, 2013

.

Supervision and Regulation

Information on BNY Mellon’s supervision and regulation obligations can be found in the “MD&A — Supervision and Regulation” section in the Annual Report.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.

Competition

BNY Mellon is subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business.  Our Investment Management business competes with asset management firms, hedge funds, investment banking companies and other financial services companies, including trust banks, brokerage firms, and insurance companies.  We may compete with these firms and companies domestically or internationally.  Our Investment Services business competes with domestic and foreign financial services firms that offer custody services, corporate trust services, clearing services, collateral services, credit services, securities brokerage, foreign exchange services, derivatives services, depositary receipt services and cash management services and related products, as well as a wide range of technology service providers, such as financial services data processing firms. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates, lending limits and customer convenience.

Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies, banks and trust companies, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the “MD&A — Supervision and Regulation” section in the Annual Report and, as a result, may have a

competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects.

Many broad-based financial services firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage and asset management, which may enhance their competitive position.

As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to our clients.  We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area.  The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to being able to implement this.  For additional discussion regarding competition, see “MD&A — Risk Factors – We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability” in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Employees

At

Dec. 31, 2013

, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately 51,100 employees.

Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies

I.

Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Supplemental information – Rate/volume analysis” sections in the MD&A and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

II.   Investment Portfolio

A.    Book Value of Investments;

B.

Maturity Distribution and Yields of Investments; and

C.

Aggregate Book Value and Market Value of Investments where Issuer Exceeds 10% of Stockholders’ Equity

BNY Mellon  5

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Investment securities” sections in the MD&A and in Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

III.   Loan Portfolio

A.

Types of Loans; and

B.

Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans” section in the

MD&A

and Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

C.    Risk Elements; and

D.

Other Interest-bearing Assets

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans” and “– Nonperforming assets” and “International operations – Cross-border risk”, “– Exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece” sections in the

MD&A

and Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

IV.   Summary of Loan Loss Experience

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Critical accounting estimates – Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments” section in the

MD&A

, which portion is incorporated herein by reference, and below.

When losses on specific loans are identified, the portion deemed uncollectible is charged off.  The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the “Asset quality and allowance for credit losses” section in the

MD&A

in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management’s judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit

exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report in the “Risk management – Credit risk” and “Critical accounting estimates” sections in the

MD&A

and Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

V.   Deposits

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Deposits” sections in the

MD&A

and in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

VI.   Return on Equity and Assets

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Financial summary” section, which is incorporated herein by reference.

VII.   Short-Term Borrowings

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Short-term borrowings” section in the

MD&A

, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.

Replacement Capital Covenants

On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant in connection with its issuance of ₤200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.369% junior subordinated deferrable interest debt securities due 2066 (the “Junior Subordinated Debt Securities”) to Mellon Capital III (the “2006 Trust”) and the issuance by the 2006 Trust of ₤200,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of its 6.369% trust preferred securities (the “Preferred Securities”).  Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial’s obligations under this Replacement Capital Covenant, and BNY Mellon amended this Replacement Capital Covenant on Sept. 11, 2012.  In this section, we refer to this Replacement Capital Covenant as so amended as the “2006 RCC” and to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the Preferred Securities together as the “2006 Securities”.

6  BNY Mellon

BNY Mellon agreed in the 2006 RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt”, that on or before Sept. 5, 2056:

•

BNY Mellon will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and will cause the 2006 Trust not to repay, redeem or repurchase, any of the 2006 Securities, with limited exceptions, unless:

◦

BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve’s capital rules; and

◦

the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received since Sept. 11, 2012 from the issuance of certain securities specified in the 2006 RCC that, generally described, based on the standards in effect at the time the 2006 RCC was originally adopted would have been expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2006 Securities based on such standards at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and

•

BNY Mellon will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the 2006 Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the 2006 RCC, subject to certain limitations, and BNY Mellon will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has elected to capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.

On June 19, 2007, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant in connection with (i) the issuance by Mellon Capital IV (the “2007 Trust”) of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or “Normal PCS” (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the “PCS”), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate and (ii) the

issuance by Mellon Financial to the 2007 Trust of $500,000,000 of its 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes, or “Junior Notes”, and a 1/100

th

interest in a Stock Purchase Contract under which the 2007 Trust was obligated to purchase, and Mellon Financial was obligated to sell, one share of Mellon Financial’s Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series L, $100,000 liquidation preference per share, which, pursuant to the merger, became an obligation to purchase Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, $100,000 liquidation preference per share, of BNY Mellon (the “Preferred Stock”).  The 2007 Trust sold the Junior Notes in a remarketing on May 21, 2012 and purchased the Preferred Stock on June 20, 2012.  Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial’s obligation under this Replacement Capital Covenant, and BNY Mellon amended this Replacement Capital Covenant on May 8 and Sept. 11, 2012. In this section, we refer to this Replacement Capital Covenant as so amended as the “2007 RCC”, to the 2006 RCC and the 2007 RCC together as the “RCCs” and to the Preferred Stock and the PCS collectively as the “2007 Securities”.

BNY Mellon agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt”, that on or before the “Termination Date”, as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2022):

•

BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless:

◦

BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve’s capital rules applicable to BHCs; and

◦

the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received since Sept. 11, 2012 from the issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on the standards in effect at the time the 2007 RCC was originally adopted would have been expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.

BNY Mellon  7

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the RCCs as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9.  Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series of notes and (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series of notes in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date.  Each RCC includes provisions under which BNY Mellon will then identify a new series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed to become the Covered Debt benefiting from such RCC.

The full text of each RCC, as amended and restated, is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2012.  The description of each RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.

ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

The information required by this Item is set forth in the Annual Report under “MD&A – Risk Factors”, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We believe that our owned and leased facilities are suitable and adequate for our business needs.  At a number of the locations described below, we are not currently occupying all of the space under our control.  Where commercially reasonable and to the extent it is not needed for future expansion, we have leased or subleased, or seek to lease or sublease, this excess space.  The following is a description of our principal properties, as of

Dec. 31, 2013

:

New York City properties

We own a 49-story office building located at One Wall Street that serves as our corporate headquarters.  We also own our 23-story building located at 101 Barclay Street in downtown Manhattan, and lease the land on which that building sits under a ground lease expiring in 2080. In addition, we lease approximately 313,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 200 Park Avenue and approximately 318,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 2 Hanson Place in Brooklyn.  We have consolidated operations previously located in leased space at 32 Old Slip into our building at 101 Barclay Street.  The New York City properties are utilized by all of our business segments.

Pittsburgh properties

We lease under a long-term, triple net lease the entire 54-story office building known as BNY Mellon Center located at 500 Grant Street.  In addition, we own a 42-story office building located at 525 William Penn Place and a 14-story office building located at 500 Ross Street.  The Pittsburgh properties are utilized by all of our business segments.

Boston area properties

We lease approximately 373,000 square feet of space in a Boston office building located at One Boston Place, 201 Washington Street.  We also lease under a triple net lease the entire 3-story office building located at 135 Santilli Highway in Everett, Massachusetts.  Additionally, we lease approximately 304,000 square feet of space at 4400 Computer Drive in Westborough, Massachusetts.  The Boston properties are utilized by all of our business segments.

Jersey City property

We lease approximately 485,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 95 Christopher Columbus Drive, primarily utilized by our Investment Services segment.

United Kingdom properties

We have a number of leased office locations in London (including approximately 234,000 square feet of space at BNY Mellon Centre at 160-162 Queen Victoria Street and approximately 152,000 square feet of space at The Tower at One Canada Square at Canary Wharf), as well as other leased office locations throughout the United Kingdom, including locations in Manchester, Poole, Leeds, Brentwood,

8  BNY Mellon

Liverpool and Edinburgh.  The UK properties are utilized by all of our business segments.

India properties

We lease approximately 639,000 square feet of space in Pune, India and approximately 540,000 square feet of space in Chennai, India.  The India properties are utilized by all of our business segments.

Other properties

We also lease (and in a few instances own) office space and other facilities at numerous other locations both within and outside of the U.S., including properties located in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Florida, Delaware, Texas, California, Illinois, Washington and Tennessee; Brussels, Belgium; Wexford, Dublin and Cork, Ireland; Luxembourg; Frankfurt and Dusseldorf, Germany; Wroclaw, Poland; Singapore; Hong Kong and Shanghai, China; Seoul, Korea; Tokyo, Japan; Sydney, Australia and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information required by this Item is set forth in the “Legal proceedings” section in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

BNY Mellon  9

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BK.  Certain of our depositary shares, each representing 1/4,000

th

interest in a share of our Series C noncumulative perpetual preferred stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BK PrC.  Mellon Capital IV’s 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities are also listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BK/P.  Information relating to the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock and our common stock dividend for each full quarterly period during fiscal years 2012 and 2013 is set forth in the “Selected Quarterly Data” section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  As of

Dec. 31, 2013

, there were 29,231 holders of record of our common stock.

For additional information about dividends and a discussion of potential regulatory limitations on our receipt of funds from our regulated subsidiaries and our payment of dividends to stockholders, see the “Liquidity and dividends” and “Supervision and Regulation – Capital Planning and Stress Testing—Payment of Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Other Capital Distributions” sections in the MD&A in the Annual Report and Notes 15 and 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

Additional information about our common stock, including information about share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2013 and existing Board of Directors authorizations with respect to purchases by us of our common stock and other equity securities is provided in the “Capital – Issuer purchases of equity securities” section of the MD&A in the Annual Report and Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information required by this Item is set forth in the “Financial Summary” section and the “Summary of financial results” section in the MD&A in the

Annual Report and Notes 1, 2 and 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information required by this Item is set forth in the MD&A and Notes 3, 12, 14, 19, 22 and 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information required by this Item is set forth in the “Critical accounting estimates”, “Off-balance sheet arrangements”, “Risk management”, “Trading activities and risk management” and “Asset/liability management” sections in the MD&A in the Annual Report and “Derivative financial instruments” under Note 1 and Notes 20, 22 and 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Reference is made to Item 15 on page 15 hereof for a detailed listing of the items under Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules, Exhibits and Other Financial Data, which are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with participation by the members of the Disclosure Committee, has responsibility for ensuring that there is an adequate and effective process for establishing, maintaining, and evaluating disclosure controls and procedures

10  BNY Mellon

that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in our SEC reports is timely recorded, processed, summarized and reported and that information required to be disclosed by BNY Mellon is accumulated and communicated to BNY Mellon’s management to allow timely decisions regarding the required disclosure.  In addition, our ethics hotline can also be used by employees and others for the anonymous communication of concerns about financial controls or reporting matters.  There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.  Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.

As of

Dec. 31, 2013

, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e).  Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

As previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2012, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, we reviewed our process for the reporting of information in our public filings and we have instituted ongoing enhancements to the data collection processes and systems relating to AUC/A and other information in our public filings.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

In the ordinary course of business, we may routinely modify, upgrade or enhance our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting.  There have not been any changes in our internal controls over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act during the fourth quarter of 2013 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

See “Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” on pages


and


of the Annual Report, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.

BNY Mellon  11

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The information required by this Item is included below and in the Proxy in the “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” section; the “Other Information – Stockholder Proposals for 2015 Annual Meeting” section; the introductory paragraph to the “Proposal 1 – Election of Directors” section and the following portions of the “Proposal 1 – Election of Directors” section: “Director Qualifications”, “Information About the Nominees”; and the following portions of the “Corporate Governance” section: “Board Meetings and Board Committee Information – Committees and Committee Charters” and “– Audit Committee”; and “Compensation of Directors”, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

CODE OF ETHICS

We have adopted a code of ethics for our employees which we refer to as our Code of Conduct.  The Code of Conduct applies to all employees of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries, including our Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) and Controller (principal accounting officer).  The Code of Conduct is posted on our website at

www.bnymellon.com/ethics/codeofconduct.pdf

.  We also have a code of ethics for our directors, which we refer to as our Directors’ Code of Conduct.  The Directors’ Code of Conduct applies to all directors of BNY Mellon.  The Directors’ Code of Conduct is posted on our website at

www.bnymellon.com/governance/directorscodeofconduct.pdf

.  Both the Code of Conduct and the Directors’ Code of Conduct are available in print, without charge, to any stockholder who requests a copy.  Requests should be sent to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Investor Relations, One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286.  We intend to disclose on our website any amendments to or waivers of the Code of Conduct relating to executive officers (including the officers specified above) and will disclose any amendments to or waivers of the Directors’ Code of Conduct relating to our directors.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The name and age of, and positions and offices held by, each executive officer of BNY Mellon as of Feb. 28, 2014, together with the offices held by each such person during the last five years, are listed below and on the following page.  The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President each hold office for the year for which the Board of Directors was elected and until the appointment and qualification of his or her successor or until his or her earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal.  All other executive officers serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority.  No executive officer has a family relationship to any other executive officer or director or nominee for director.

12  BNY Mellon

(1)

Mr. Hassell has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BNY Mellon since August 2011.  Mr. Hassell also serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.  From at least 2009 to December 31, 2012, Mr. Hassell served as President of BNY Mellon, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.

(2)

Ms. Peetz has served as President of BNY Mellon since January 2013.  Ms. Peetz also serves as President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.  From at least 2009 to December 31, 2012, Ms. Peetz served as Chief Executive Officer of Financial Markets and Treasury Services and Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.

(3)

Mr. Arledge has served as Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon since November 2010.  Mr. Arledge also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Investment Management and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.  From 2008 to November 2010, Mr. Arledge served as Chief Investment Officer for fixed income portfolios at BlackRock, Inc., an investment management firm.

(4)

Mr. Gibbons has served as Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon since September 2010 and as Chief Financial Officer of BNY Mellon since at least 2009.  Mr. Gibbons also serves as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.

(5)

Mr. Keaney has served as Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon since September 2010.  Mr. Keaney also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Investment Services and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.  From September 2010 to December 31, 2012, Mr. Keaney served as Chief Executive Officer of Asset Servicing and Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From at least 2009 to September 2010, Mr. Keaney served as Co-Chief Executive Officer of Asset Servicing and Senior Executive Vice President of BNY Mellon, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.

(6)

Mr. Rogan has served as Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon since September 2010 and Chief Risk

Officer of BNY Mellon since at least 2009.  Mr. Rogan also serves as Chief Risk Officer and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.

(7)

Mr. Brueckner has served as Senior Executive Vice President of BNY Mellon since at least 2009.  Mr. Brueckner also serves as Chief of Staff of BNY Mellon and Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A.  From at least 2009 to December 2011, Mr. Brueckner served as Chairman of Pershing LLC, and as Chief Executive Officer of Pershing LLC from at least 2009 to October 2010.

(8)

Mr. Shea has served as Senior Executive Vice President of BNY Mellon since 2010.  Mr. Shea also serves as President of Investment Services, Head of the Broker Dealer and Advisor Services Group, Head of Client Service Delivery and Client Technology Solutions of BNY Mellon, Chairman of Pershing LLC and Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.  From October 2010 to December 2012, Mr. Shea served as Chief Executive Officer of Pershing LLC.  Mr. Shea served as Chief Operating Officer of Pershing LLC from at least 2009 to October 2010.

(9)

Ms. Sherburne has served as Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of BNY Mellon since May 2010.  Ms. Sherburne also serves as Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.  From 2009 to May 2010, Ms. Sherburne conducted a private legal practice.  Ms. Sherburne served as General Counsel for Wachovia Corporation, a financial services company, from 2008 to 2009.

(10)

Mr. Park has served as Controller of BNY Mellon since at least 2009 and as Vice President of BNY Mellon since August 2009.  Mr. Park also serves as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. and Controller of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.

The Bank of New York Mellon, BNY Mellon, N.A. and Pershing LLC, as referenced in the foregoing footnotes, are subsidiaries of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.

BNY Mellon  13

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following sections: “Compensation of Directors”, “Compensation and Risk”, “Compensation Discussion and Analysis”, “Executive Compensation”,  “Corporate Governance—Board Meetings and Board Committee Information – Committees and Committee Charters”, “Corporate Governance—Board Meetings and Board Committee Information – Human Resources and Compensation Committee”, and the “Compensation Discussion and Analysis—Report of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee”, which are incorporated herein by reference.  The information incorporated herein by reference to the “Compensation Discussion and Analysis—Report of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee” is deemed furnished hereunder.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following sections: “Information on Stock Ownership”, and “Proposal 4–Approval of the Amended and Restated Long-Term Incentive Plan of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation  – Equity Compensation Plans Table”, which are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following sections: “Other Information—Business Relationships and Related Party Transactions Policy”, “Corporate Governance– Director Independence” and “Corporate Governance – Board Meetings and Board Committee Information – Audit Committee; – Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee; – Human Resources and Compensation Committee”, which are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following section:  “Proposal 3 –

Ratification of the Appointment of KPMG LLP”, which is incorporated herein by reference.

14  BNY Mellon

ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)

The financial statements, schedules and exhibits required for this Form 10‑K are incorporated by reference as indicated in the following index.  Page numbers refer to pages of the Annual Report for Items (1) and (2) Financial Statements and Schedules.

(b)

The exhibits listed on the Index to Exhibits on pages

17 through 27

hereof are incorporated by reference or filed or furnished herewith in response to this Item.

(c)

Other Financial Data

None.

BNY Mellon  15

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, BNY Mellon has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of BNY Mellon and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

16  BNY Mellon

Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, BNY Mellon has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this Form 10-K.  These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties.  These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or parties to such agreements and (i) may have been qualified by disclosures made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in BNY Mellon’s public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards that are different from what may be viewed as material to investors.  Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe BNY Mellon’s actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon.

BNY Mellon  17

18  BNY Mellon

BNY Mellon  19

20  BNY Mellon

BNY Mellon  21

22  BNY Mellon

BNY Mellon  23

24  BNY Mellon

BNY Mellon  25

26  BNY Mellon

BNY Mellon  27