ITEM 1A.RISK
    FACTORS



Our businesses face significant risks. If any of the events or
    circumstances described as risks below actually occurs, our
    businesses, results of operations or financial condition could
    be materially and adversely affected.



Risks
    Relating to Our Industry



Our
    results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including
    cyclical changes in the insurance and reinsurance
    industry.





Our
    actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, which
    may require us to establish additional reserves.



Our gross reserves for losses and loss expenses were
    approximately $9 billion as of December 31, 2010. Our
    loss reserves reflect our best estimates of the cost of settling
    claims and related expenses with respect to insured events that
    have occurred.



Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability.
    Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what management
    expects the ultimate settlement and claims administration will
    cost for claims that have occurred, whether known or unknown.
    The major assumptions about anticipated loss emergence patterns
    are subject to unanticipated fluctuation. These estimates, which
    generally involve actuarial projections, are based on
    management’s assessment of facts and circumstances then
    known, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity
    and frequency, inflation, judicial theories of liability,
    reinsurance coverage, legislative changes and other factors,
    including the actions of third parties, which are beyond our
    control.



The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater
    for certain types of liabilities, where long periods of time
    elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made
    and settlement is reached. In periods with increased economic
    volatility, such as under the current financial market
    conditions, it becomes more difficult to accurately predict
    claim costs. It is especially difficult to estimate the impact
    of inflation on loss reserves given the current economic
    environment and related government actions. Reserve estimates
    are continually refined in an ongoing process as experience
    develops and further claims are reported and settled.
    Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the
    periods in which such estimates are changed. Because setting
    reserves is inherently uncertain, we cannot assure that our
    current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent
    events. Should we need to increase our reserves, our pre-tax
    income for the reporting period would decrease by a
    corresponding amount.



We decreased our estimates for claims occurring in prior years
    by $253 million in 2010, $234 million in 2009,
    $196 million in 2008 and $106 million in 2007, and
    increased our estimates by $27 million in 2006. We, along
    with the property casualty insurance industry in general, have
    experienced higher than expected losses for certain types of
    business written from 1999 to 2002. Although our reserves
    reflect our best estimate of the costs of settling claims, we
    cannot assure you that our claim estimates will not need to be
    increased in the future.





We discount our reserves for excess and assumed workers’
    compensation business because of the long period of time over
    which losses are paid. Discounting is intended to appropriately
    match losses and loss expenses to income earned on investment
    securities supporting liabilities. The expected loss and loss
    expense payout pattern subject to discounting is derived from
    our loss payout experience. Changes in the loss and loss expense
    payout pattern are recorded in the period they are determined.
    If the actual loss payout pattern is shorter than anticipated,
    the discount will be reduced and pre-tax income will decrease by
    a corresponding amount.



As a
    property casualty insurer, we face losses from natural and
    man-made catastrophes.



Property casualty insurers are subject to claims arising out of
    catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results
    of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophe
    losses have had a significant impact on our results. In
    addition, through our participation in certain Lloyd’s
    syndicates, we have additional exposure to catastrophic losses.
    For example, weather-related losses were $81 million in
    2010, $63 million in 2009, $114 million in 2008,
    $34 million in 2007 and $39 million in 2006.



Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including
    hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions,
    severe winter weather and fires, as well as terrorist
    activities. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are
    inherently unpredictable but have increased in recent years. The
    extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the
    total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the
    event and the severity of the event. Some catastrophes are
    restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes and
    earthquakes may produce significant damage in large, heavily
    populated areas. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of
    our property and casualty lines, and most of our past
    catastrophe-related claims have resulted from severe storms.
    Seasonal weather variations or the impact of climate change may
    affect the severity and frequency of our losses. Insurance
    companies are not permitted to reserve for a catastrophe until
    it has occurred. It is therefore possible that a catastrophic
    event or multiple catastrophic events could produce significant
    losses and have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition.



We
    face significant competitive pressures in our businesses, which
    have reduced premium rates and could harm our ability to
    maintain or increase our profitability and premium
    volume.



We compete with a large number of other companies in our
    selected lines of business. We compete, and will continue to
    compete, with major U.S. andnon-U.S. insurersand reinsurers, other regional companies, as well as mutual
    companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies
    and diversified financial services companies, some of which have
    implicit or explicit government support. Competitiveness in our
    businesses is based on many factors, including premium charges,
    ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, commissions
    paid to producers, the perceived financial strength of the
    company, other terms and conditions offered, services provided
    (including ease of doing business over the internet), speed of
    claims payment and reputation and experience in the lines to be
    written.



Some of our competitors, particularly in the reinsurance
    business, have greater financial and marketing resources than we
    do. These competitors within the reinsurance segment include
    Swiss Re, Munich Re, Berkshire Hathaway, Transatlantic
    Reinsurance, and Partner Re. We expect that perceived financial
    strength, in particular, will become more important as customers
    seek high quality reinsurers. Certain of our competitors operate
    from Bermuda or other tax advantaged or less regulated
    jurisdictions that may provide them with additional competitive
    and pricing advantages.



Over the past several years, we have faced increased competition
    in our business, particularly in our reinsurance and specialty
    segments, as increased supply has led to reduced prices and, at
    times, less favorable terms and conditions. Our specialty
    segment increasingly encounters competition from admitted
    companies seeking to increase market share. We expect to
    continue to face strong competition in these and our other lines
    of business and may continue to experience reduced pricing and
    weaker terms and conditions.



This intense competition could cause the supplyand/ordemand for insurance or reinsurance to change, which could
    affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and
    retain existing business or write new products at adequate rates
    or on acceptable terms and conditions. If we are unable to
    retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates
    and on acceptable terms and conditions, our results of
    operations could be materially and adversely affected.





Conditions
    in the financial markets and the effect of the economic downturn
    have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our
    results of operations and financial condition, particularly if
    such conditions continue.



The significant volatility and uncertainty experienced in
    financial markets around the world during the past several years
    and the effect of the economic downturn have continued. Although
    the U.S. and various foreign governments have taken various
    actions to try to stabilize the financial markets, the ultimate
    effectiveness of such actions remains unclear. Therefore,
    volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and the
    resulting negative economic impact may continue for some time.



While we monitor conditions in the financial markets, we cannot
    predict future conditions or their impact on our results of
    operations and financial condition. Depending on conditions in
    the financial markets, we could incur additional realized and
    unrealized losses in our investment portfolio in future periods,
    and financial market volatility and uncertainty and an economic
    downturn could have a significant negative impact on third
    parties that we do business with, including insureds and
    reinsurers.



We, as
    a primary insurer, may have significant exposure for terrorist
    acts.



To the extent an act of terrorism, whether a domestic or foreign
    act, is certified by the Secretary of Treasury, we may be
    covered under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, as
    amended on December 22, 2005 and further amended on
    December 26, 2007 (“TRIA”), for up to 85% of our
    losses for certain property/casualty lines of insurance.
    However, any such coverage would be subject to a mandatory
    deductible based on 20% of earned premium for the prior year for
    the covered lines of commercial property and casualty insurance.
    Based on our 2010 earned premiums, our deductible under TRIA
    during 2011 is approximately $503 million. TRIA is in
    effect through December 31, 2014 unless extended or
    replaced by a similar program. The coverage provided under TRIA
    does not apply to reinsurance that we write.



Our
    earnings could be more volatile because of our significant level
    of retentions.



As compared to a number of our competitors, we maintain
    significant retention levels in premiums written. We purchase
    less reinsurance, the process by which we transfer, or cede,
    part of the risk we have assumed to a reinsurance company,
    thereby retaining more risk. As a result, our earnings could be
    more volatile and increased severities are more likely to have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations and
    financial condition.



We are
    subject to extensive governmental regulation, which increases
    our costs and could restrict the conduct of our
    business.



We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and
    supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect
    the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and
    other investors. This system of regulation, generally
    administered by a department of insurance in each state in which
    we do business, relates to, among other things:



•standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements;•restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of
    investments;•requiring certain methods of accounting;•rate and form regulation pertaining to certain of our insurance
    businesses; and•potential assessments for the provision of funds necessary for
    the settlement of covered claims under certain policies provided
    by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies.



State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the
    affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual
    and other reports relating to the financial condition of
    insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters.
    Federal financial services modernization legislation and
    legislative and regulatory initiatives taken or which may be
    taken in response to the current conditions in the financial
    markets and the ongoing economic downturn may lead to additional
    federal regulation of the insurance industry in the coming years.





On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd
    Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the
    “Dodd-Frank Act”) which effects sweeping changes to
    financial services regulation in the United States. The
    Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Financial Services Oversight
    Council (“FSOC”) which is authorized to recommend that
    certain systemically significant non-bank financial companies,
    including insurance companies, be regulated by the Board of
    Governors of the Federal Reserve. The Dodd-Frank Act also
    establishes a Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) and
    authorizes the federal preemption of certain state insurance
    laws. FSOC and the FIO are authorized to study, monitor and
    report to Congress on the U.S. insurance industry and the
    significance of global reinsurance to the U.S. insurance
    market. The potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the
    U.S. insurance business is not clear, however, our business
    could be affected by changes to the U.S. system of
    insurance regulation or our designation or the designation of
    insurers or reinsurers with which we do business as systemically
    significant non-bank financial companies.



Although U.S. state regulation is the primary form of
    regulation of insurance and reinsurance, in addition to the
    changes brought about by the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress has
    considered over the past years various proposals relating to the
    creation of an optional federal charter, repeal of the insurance
    company antitrust exemption from the McCarran Ferguson Act, and
    tax law changes. We may be subject to potentially increased
    federal oversight as a financial institution. Also, foreign
    governments regulate our international operations.



With respect to international measures, an EU directive
    concerning the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory
    reporting for insurers and reinsurers (“Solvency II”)
    which was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2009, may
    affect our insurance businesses. Adoption by EU member states is
    anticipated at the end of 2012. Implementation of
    Solvency II may require us to utilize a significant amount
    of resources to ensure compliance. In addition, Solvency II
    may have the effect of increasing the capital requirements of
    our EU domiciled insurers. Solvency II provides for the
    supervision of group solvency. Our capital requirements may be
    adversely affected if the EU Commission finds that the insurance
    regimes of our third-country domiciled companies are not
    equivalent to the requirements of Solvency II.



We may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals
    and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of
    applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s
    interpretation of the laws and regulations. Also, some
    regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to
    grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have
    the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with
    applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory
    authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from
    carrying on some or all of our activities or monetarily penalize
    us. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance
    industry, whether federal, state or foreign, or changes in laws
    or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory
    authorities, restrict the conduct of our business.



In certain of our insurance businesses, the rates we charge our
    policyholders are subject to regulatory approval. Certain lines
    of business are subject to a greater degree of regulatory
    scrutiny than others. For example, the workers’
    compensation business is highly regulated. For 2010,
    approximately 16.5% of our net premiums written represented
    primary workers’ compensation business. Over the past
    several years, rates for primary workers’ compensation
    business written in the State of California have declined
    significantly as a result of workers’ compensation reform.
    Of our net premiums written during 2010, approximately 1.6%
    represented primary workers’ compensation business written
    in the State of California.



Risks
    Relating to Our Business



We
    cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay in a timely
    fashion, if at all, and, as a result, we could experience
    losses.



We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk that we
    have assumed, known as ceding, to a reinsurance company in
    exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with
    the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer contractually
    liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to
    the reinsurer, it does not relieve us, the reinsured, of our
    liability to our policyholders. Our reinsurers may not pay the
    reinsurance recoverables that they owe to us or they may not pay
    such recoverables on a timely basis. Accordingly, we bear credit
    risk with respect to our reinsurers, and if our reinsurers fail
    to pay us, our financial results would be adversely affected.
    Underwriting results and investment returns of some of our
    reinsurers may affect their future





ability to pay claims. As of December 31, 2010, the amount
    due from our reinsurers was approximately $1,070 million,
    including amounts due from state funds and industry pools where
    it was intended that we would bear no risk. Certain of these
    amounts due from reinsurers are secured by letters of credit or
    by funds held in trust on our behalf.



We are
    rated by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s, and
    Moody’s, and a decline in these ratings could affect our
    standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and
    earnings to decrease.



Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in
    establishing the competitive position of insurance companies.
    Certain of our insurance company subsidiaries are rated by
    A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s and
    Moody’s Investors. Our ratings are subject to periodic
    review, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain
    those ratings.



If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by
    A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s or
    Moody’s, our competitive position in the insurance industry
    could suffer and it would be more difficult for us to market our
    products. A significant downgrade could result in a substantial
    loss of business as policyholders move to other companies with
    higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings.



If
    market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or
    unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or
    reduce the level of our underwriting commitments.



As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we
    purchase reinsurance for certain amounts of risk underwritten by
    our insurance company subsidiaries, especially catastrophe
    risks. We also purchase reinsurance on risks underwritten by
    others which we reinsure. Market conditions beyond our control
    determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance
    protection we seek to purchase, which may affect the level of
    our business and profitability. Our reinsurance contracts are
    generally subject to annual renewal. We may be unable to
    maintain our current reinsurance contracts or to obtain other
    reinsurance contracts in adequate amounts and at favorable
    rates. In addition, we may be unable to obtain reinsurance on
    terms acceptable to us relating to certain lines of business
    that we intend to begin writing. If we are unable to renew our
    expiring contracts or to obtain new reinsurance contracts,
    either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling
    to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce
    the level of our underwriting commitments, especially
    catastrophe exposed risks.



Depending
    on conditions in the financial markets and the economic
    downturn, we may be unable to raise debt or equity capital if
    needed.



If the current conditions in the financial markets and the
    economic downturn continue, we may be unable to access debt or
    equity capital on acceptable terms if needed, which could have a
    negative impact on our ability to invest in our insurance
    company subsidiariesand/orto
    take advantage of opportunities to expand our business, such as
    possible acquisitions and new ventures.



Our
    international operations expose us to investment, political and
    economic risks, including foreign currency and credit
    risk.



Our expanding international operations in the United Kingdom,
    Continental Europe, South America, Australia, Southeast Asia and
    Canada expose us to investment, political and economic risks,
    including foreign currency and credit risk. Changes in the value
    of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have
    an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition.



Our investments innon-U.S.-denominatedsecurities are subject to fluctuations innon-U.S. securitiesand currency markets, and those markets can be volatile.Non-U.S. currencyfluctuations also affect the value of any dividends paid by ournon-U.S. subsidiariesto their parent companies in the U.S.





We may
    not find suitable acquisition candidates or new insurance
    ventures and even if we do, we may not successfully integrate
    any such acquired companies or successfully invest in such
    ventures.



As part of our present strategy, we continue to evaluate
    possible acquisition transactions and thestart-upof
    complementary businesses on an ongoing basis, and at any given
    time we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible
    acquisitions and new ventures. We cannot assure you that we will
    be able to identify suitable acquisition transactions or
    insurance ventures, that such transactions will be financed and
    completed on acceptable terms or that our future acquisitions orstart-upventures will be successful. The process of integrating any
    companies we do acquire or investing in new ventures may have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations and
    financial condition.



We may
    be unable to attract and retain key personnel and qualified
    employees.



We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel,
    including our Chairman and CEO, COO, senior executive officers,
    presidents of our operating units, experienced underwriters and
    other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our
    business. If the quality of our underwriting team and other
    personnel decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current
    competitive position in the specialized markets in which we
    operate, and be unable to expand our operations into new markets.



Risks
    Relating to Our Investments



A
    significant amount of our assets is invested in fixed maturity
    securities and is subject to market fluctuations.



Our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed
    maturity securities. As of December 31, 2010, our
    investment in fixed maturity securities was approximately
    $11 billion, or 86% of our total investment portfolio. As
    of that date, our portfolio of fixed maturity securities
    consisted of the following types of securities:
    U.S. Government securities (12%); state and municipal
    securities (50%); corporate securities (21%); mortgage-backed
    securities (13%) and foreign government bonds (4%).



The fair value of these assets and the investment income from
    these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market
    conditions. The fair value of fixed maturity securities
    generally decreases as interest rates rise. Conversely, if
    interest rates decline, investment income earned from future
    investments in fixed maturity securities will be lower. In
    addition, some fixed maturity securities, such as
    mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, carry
    prepayment risk as a result of interest rate fluctuations.



The value of investments in fixed maturity securities is subject
    to impairment as a result of deterioration in the credit
    worthiness of the issuer, default by the issuer (including
    states and municipalities) in the performance of its obligations
    in respect of the securitiesand/orincreases in market interest rates. To a large degree, the
    credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly,
    we face a greater risk in an economic downturn or recession.
    Although the historical rates of default on state and municipal
    securities have been relatively low, our state and municipal
    fixed maturity securities could be subject to a higher risk of
    default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and
    revenue. The economic downturn has resulted in many states and
    municipalities operating under deficits or projected deficits,
    the severity and duration of which could have an adverse impact
    on both the valuation of our state and municipal fixed maturity
    securities and the issuer’s ability to perform its
    obligations thereunder. Additionally, our investments are
    subject to losses as a result of a general decrease in
    commercial and economic activity for an industry sector in which
    we invest, as well as risks inherent in particular securities.



Although we attempt to manage these risks through the use of
    investment guidelines and other oversight mechanisms and by
    diversifying our portfolio and emphasizing preservation of
    principal, our efforts may not be successful. Impairments,
    defaultsand/orrate
    increases could reduce our net investment income and net
    realized investment gains or result in investment losses.
    Investment returns are currently, and will likely continue to
    remain, under pressure due to the significant volatility
    experienced in the financial markets, economic uncertainty, more
    generally, and the shape of the yield curve. As a result, our
    exposure to the risks described above could materially and
    adversely affect our results of operations.





We
    invest some of our assets in equity securities, merger arbitrage
    securities, investment funds, private equity and real estate
    related assets, which may decline in value.



We invest a portion of our investment portfolio in equity
    securities, merger arbitrage securities, investment funds,
    private equity and real estate related assets. At
    December 31, 2010, our investment in these assets was
    approximately $1.8 billion, or 14%, of our investment
    portfolio. We reported provisions for other than temporary
    impairments in the value of these assets of approximately
    $9 million in 2010, $63 million in 2009 and
    $427 million in 2008, and losses from investment funds of
    $8 million in 2010, $174 million in 2009 and
    $4 million in 2008.



Merger and arbitrage trading securities were $420 million,
    or 3%, of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2010.
    Merger arbitrage involves investing in the securities of
    publicly held companies that are the targets in announced tender
    offers and mergers. Merger arbitrage differs from other types of
    investments in its focus on transactions and events believed
    likely to bring about a change in value over a relatively short
    time period, usually four months or less. Our merger arbitrage
    positions are exposed to the risk associated with the completion
    of announced deals, which are subject to regulatory as well as
    political and other risks.



Investments in publicly traded real estate investment trusts,
    real estate investment funds and limited partnerships and loans
    receivable were $675 million, or 5%, of our investment
    portfolio at December 31, 2010. The values of our real
    estate related investments are subject to fluctuations based on
    changes in the economy in general and real estate valuations in
    particular. These investments have been subject to significant
    volatility as a result of the current conditions in the
    financial markets. In addition, our investments in real estate
    related assets are less liquid than our other investments.



Risks
    Relating to Purchasing Our Securities



We are
    an insurance holding company and, therefore, may not be able to
    receive dividends in needed amounts.



As an insurance holding company, our principal assets are the
    shares of capital stock of our insurance company subsidiaries.
    We have to rely on dividends from our insurance company
    subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and
    interest on outstanding debt obligations and for paying
    dividends to stockholders and corporate expenses. The payment of
    dividends by our insurance company subsidiaries is subject to
    regulatory restrictions and will depend on the surplus and
    future earnings of these subsidiaries, as well as regulatory
    restrictions. During 2011, the maximum amount of dividends that
    can be paid without regulatory approval is approximately
    $490 million. As a result, in the future we may not be able
    to receive dividends from these subsidiaries at times and in
    amounts necessary to meet our obligations or pay dividends.



We are
    subject to certain provisions that may have the effect of
    hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers, which
    may prevent our stockholders from receiving premium prices for
    their shares in an unsolicited takeover and make it more
    difficult for third parties to replace our current
    management.



Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and
    By-Laws, as well as state insurance statutes, may hinder, delay
    or prevent unsolicited acquisitions or changes of our control.
    These provisions may also have the effect of making it more
    difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of our
    current management without the concurrence of our board of
    directors.



These provisions include:



•our classified board of directors and the ability of our board
    to increase its size and to appoint directors to fill newly
    created directorships;•the requirement that 80% of our stockholders must approve
    mergers and other transactions between us and the holder of 5%
    or more of our shares, unless the transaction was approved by
    our board of directors prior to such holder’s acquisition
    of 5% of our shares;•the need for advance notice in order to raise business or make
    nominations at stockholders’ meetings; and







•state insurance statutes that restrict the acquisition of
    control (generally defined as 10% of the outstanding shares,
    though 5% in Alabama and certain other jurisdictions) of an
    insurance company without regulatory approval.



