Item 1.Business

About us

Netflix, Inc. (“Netflix”, “the Company”, “we”, or “us”) is the world’s leading Internet television network with more than 33 million members in over 40 countries enjoying more than one billion hours of TV shows and movies per month, including original series.  For one low monthly price, our members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any Internet-connected screen.  Additionally, in the United States ("U.S."), our subscribers can receive standard definition DVDs, and their high definition successor, Blu-ray discs (collectively referred to as “DVD”), delivered quickly to their homes.

Our core strategy is to grow our streaming subscription business domestically and internationally. We are continuously improving the customer experience - expanding our streaming content, with a focus on programming an overall mix of content that delights our customers, including exclusive and original content, enhancing our user interface and extending our streaming service to even more Internet-connected devices while staying within the parameters of our consolidated net income (loss) and operating segment contribution profit (loss) targets.  Contribution profit (loss) is defined as revenues less cost of revenues and marketing expenses.

We are a pioneer in the Internet delivery of TV shows and movies, launching our streaming service in 2007. Since this launch, we have developed an ecosystem for Internet-connected devices and have licensed increasing amounts of content that enable consumers to enjoy TV shows and movies directly on their TVs, computers and mobile devices. As a result of these efforts, we have experienced growing consumer acceptance of and interest in the delivery of TV shows and movies directly over the Internet.

In September 2010, we began international operations by offering our streaming service in Canada. In the past two years, we have continued our international expansion and now also offer our streaming service in Latin America, the United Kingdom ("U.K."), Ireland, and the Nordic countries of Finland, Denmark, Sweden, and Norway.

Prior to July 2011, in the U.S., our streaming and DVD-by-mail operations were combined and subscribers could receive both streaming content and DVDs under a single “hybrid” plan. In July 2011, we separated the combined plans, making it necessary for subscribers who wish to receive both DVDs-by-mail and streaming content to have two separate subscription plans.



Business Segments

Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company has three operating segments: Domestic streaming, International streaming and Domestic DVD. The Domestic and International streaming segments derive revenues from monthly subscription services consisting solely of streaming content. The Domestic DVD segment derives revenues from monthly subscription services consisting solely of DVD-by-mail. For additional information regarding our segments, see Note 10 of Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.



Domestic Streaming









The Domestic streaming segment provides our more than 27 million members with access to a broad range of exclusive, non-exclusive and original content delivered over the Internet to a host of connected devices - including PCs and Macs, game consoles such as PlayStations, smart TVs, Blu-ray players, home theater systems, Internet video players such as Apple TV and Roku, digital video recorders, and mobile devices.  We have a leading market position in domestic streaming, having grown by more than 5 million subscriptions in 2012 - an increase of 25% from 2011.



International Streaming

The large numbers of pay television and broadband households outside the U.S. provide our International streaming segment with a large long-term growth opportunity through significantly expanding our base of potential subscribers.  From our initial international market launch in Canada in September 2010, our international streaming service has grown to be available in more than 40 countries outside of the U.S. as of December 31, 2012.  We believe that international markets will be a significant source of growth and cash flow in the long term, and as a result we are strategically investing internationally today.  Our focus in international markets is to provide a compelling service offering to subscribers, which allows us to gain market share in the near term. We view long-term international success as consumer adoption and contribution margins at the levels of our domestic market.



Domestic DVD

Our Domestic DVD business launched in 1999 with DVD-by-mail subscription plans. As technology has changed and consumer preference has shifted, we have seen subscribers move away from DVD rental and toward streaming their video content.

Competition

The market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change.  Many consumers maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple entertainment video providers and can easily shift spending from one provider to another. Our principal competitors vary by geographic region and include:



•Multichannel video programming distributors ("MVPDs") with free TV Everywhere applications such as HBO GO or Showtime Anytime in the U.S. and SkyGo or BBC iPlayer in the U.K., and other on demand content from cable providers, such as Time Warner and Comcast; direct broadcast satellite providers, such as DIRECTV and Echostar; and telecommunication providers such as AT&T and Verizon

•“Over-the-top” Internet movie and TV content providers, such as, Amazon.com's Prime Video, Hulu.com and Hulu Plus, LOVEFiLM, Clarovideo, Viaplay, and Google's YouTube

•Transactional content providers, such as Apple's iTunes, Amazon's Instant Video, GooglePlay, and Vudu

•DVD rental outlets and kiosk services, such as Blockbuster and Redbox

•Entertainment video retailers, such as Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Amazon.com



Competitive Strengths



Netflix differentiates itself from the competition and has been able to grow its business through the following demonstrated unique competitive strengths:



Leading Scale Advantage Builds Compelling Content-Leveraging our substantial scale and significant content budget, Netflix has built a broad and deep content library. Our licensing teams are expert programmers informed by more than a decade of rich data on viewer preferences and viewing habits which uniquely enables them to license a compelling mix of TV and movie content to efficiently provide Netflix members with compelling content. To further differentiate our content offering from our competitors, we have increasingly licensed exclusive and original content.



Outstanding Member Experience Attracts and Retains Subscribers -We provide our members with innovative and effective user interfaces that enhance their Netflix experience and help increase engagement. Netflix leverages its large global scale and billions of hours of subscriber viewing data and algorithms in order to tailor the Netflix recommendations and merchandising to each individual user. We believe that, our user experience, driven by our focus on innovation and technology, help drive subscriber viewing, engagement, retention, and overall customer satisfaction. Relative to the competition, we believe we are further along the experience curve when it comes to improving our user interface and delivering great quality streaming.



Brand Clarity and Focus Increases Pace of Innovation for Members -We are focused on making subscription streaming video great. Nearly all of our notable competitors in the space today have many other product lines and services that require management attention and resources.  We believe that our focus on streaming video will help us innovate faster and









satisfy our consumers better than our competition.  We also believe that our focus will provide a level of clarity to our brand that will help consumers more easily discover, understand and appreciate our service offering.



Growth Drivers

Our core strategy is to grow our streaming subscription business domestically and internationally, and is built upon the following drivers:



Investment in Streaming Content- We believe that our investments in streaming content lead to more subscriber viewing, delight, and positive consumer word-of-mouth.  This, in turn, leads to subscriber acquisition and revenue growth, which allows us to invest in more streaming content, which enables the growth cycle to continue.  With more than 33 million global subscribers and our increasingly exclusive and original programming that differentiates us from competitors, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize upon this virtuous cycle.



Continuous Service Improvements- We've found that incremental improvements in our service and quality enhance our member satisfaction and retention. We continue to refine our technology, user interfaces, and delivery infrastructure to improve the customer experience.  For example, using our “adaptive streaming” technology we automatically and constantly optimize the streaming bit-rate to each user's Internet speed. This minimizes loading and buffering times, delivering the best click-and-watch experience. We have added programs in Super HD and with Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 surround sound for a high quality, immersive entertainment experience. We believe that improvements such as these will help us build a great streaming service



Overall Adoption and Growth of Internet TV- Domestically, cable and satellite pay TV subscriber numbers have stagnated, while DVR penetration has continued to climb.  We see this as indicative of consumers desiring more control and freedom in their ability to watch what they want, when they want, where they want, and how they want. We are leading this wave of consumer change and growth of Internet TV by providing broad, click-and-watch video entertainment video.



Future of the Consumer Electronic Ecosystem: “Internet on Every Screen”- We intend to broaden our already expansive partner relationships over time so that even more devices are capable of streaming content from Netflix. By making Netflix accessible on a broad array of devices, we believe that we enhance the value of our service to subscribers as well as position ourselves for continued growth as Internet and mobile delivery of content becomes more popular.  We are pioneering the use of tablets and smartphones as second-screen choosing devices for TV viewing, and are actively engaged with all of our device partners in evaluating how Netflix can enhance and improve the user experience in conjunction with their product innovations.



International Market Expansion- The international streaming segment represents a significant long-term growth opportunity as people around the world discover the benefits of Netflix. We plan to continue our international investment strategy of upfront investment in content and marketing to build out scale required for profitability. We believe that scale advantages increase barriers to entry for our competitors. Today, 18% of all of Netflix's global streaming subscribers are outside of the US.

Operations

We obtain content from various content providers through streaming content license agreements, DVD direct purchases and DVD revenue sharing agreements. We market our service through various channels, including online advertising, broad-based media, such as television and radio, as well as various strategic partnerships. In connection with marketing the service, we offer free-trial memberships to new members. Rejoining members are an important source of subscriber additions. We utilize the services of third-party cloud computing providers, more specifically, Amazon Web Services, and utilize both our own content delivery network ("Open Connect") and third-party content delivery networks, such as Level 3 Communications, to help us efficiently stream content in high volume to our subscribers over the Internet. We also ship and receive DVDs in the U.S. from a nationwide network of shipping centers.

Seasonality

Our subscriber growth exhibits a seasonal pattern that reflects variations when consumers buy Internet-connected devices and when they tend to increase video watching. Our domestic subscriber growth is generally greatest in our fourth and first quarters (October through March), slowing in our second quarter (April through June) and then accelerating in our third quarter (July through September).  We expect each market in our international segment to demonstrate more predictable seasonal patterns as our service offering in each market becomes more established and we have a longer history to assess such patterns.   Additionally, the variable expenses associated with shipments of DVDs are highest in the first quarter due to the seasonal nature of DVD usage.









Intellectual Property

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as important to our success. We use a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and confidential agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to certain risks and from time to time we encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that we will prevail in any intellectual property disputes.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we had 2,045 full-time employees. We also utilize part-time and temporary employees, primarily in our DVD fulfillment operations, to respond to the fluctuating demand for DVD shipments. Our use of temporary employees has decreased significantly due to decreased DVD shipments in 2012, as well as increased automation of our shipment centers. As of December 31, 2012, we had 384 part-time and temporary employees. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.

Other information

We were incorporated in Delaware in August 1997 and completed our initial public offering in May 2002. Our principal executive offices are located at 100 Winchester Circle, Los Gatos, California 95032, and our telephone number is (408) 540-3700.

We maintain a Web site atwww.netflix.com. The contents of our Web site are not incorporated in, or otherwise to be regarded as part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Netflix,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” “our” and the “registrant” refer to Netflix, Inc.

Our investor relations Web site is located athttp://ir.netflix.com.We use our investor relations Web site as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor this portion of the Netflix Web site, in addition to following press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We also make available, free of charge, on our investor relations Web site under “SEC Filings,” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing those reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission.











