Item 1. Business

With more than
12 million subscribers, we are the world’s largest subscription service streaming movies and TV episodes over the Internet and sending DVDs by mail. Our subscribers can instantly watch unlimited movies and TV episodes streamed to their TVs
and computers and can receive DVDs delivered quickly to their homes. We offer a variety of subscription plans, with no due dates, no late fees, no shipping fees and no pay-per-view fees. Aided by our proprietary recommendation and merchandising
technology, subscribers can select from a growing library of titles that can be watched instantly and a vast array of titles on DVD. On average, approximately 2 million discs are shipped daily from our distribution centers across the United
States. Additionally, more than 48% of our subscribers instantly watched more than 15 minutes of streaming content in the fourth quarter of 2009.

Subscribers can:



•Watch streaming content without commercial interruption on their computers and TVs. The viewing experience is enabled by Netflix controlled software
that can run on a variety of consumer electronics devices (“Netflix Ready Devices”). These Netflix Ready Devices currently include Blu-ray disc players, Internet-connected TVs, digital video players and game consoles.



•Receive DVDs by U.S. mail and return them to us at their convenience using our prepaid mailers. After a DVD has been returned, we mail the next
available DVD in a subscriber’s queue.

Our core strategy is to grow a large subscription business
consisting of streaming and DVD-by-mail content. By combining streaming and DVD as part of the Netflix subscription, we are able to offer subscribers a uniquely compelling selection of movies for one low monthly price. We believe this creates a
competitive advantage as compared to a streaming only subscription service. This advantage will diminish over time as more content becomes available over the Internet from competing services, by which time we expect to have further developed our
other advantages such as brand, distribution, and our proprietary merchandising platform. Despite the growing popularity of Internet delivered content, we expect that the standard definition DVD, along with its high definition successor, Blu-ray
(collectively referred to as “DVD”), will continue to be the primary means by which a majority of Netflix subscribers view content for the foreseeable future. However, at some point in the future, we expect that Internet delivery of
content to the home will surpass DVD as the primary means by which most Netflix subscribers view content.

We promote our
service to consumers through various marketing programs, including online promotions, TV and radio advertising, package inserts, direct mail and other promotions with third parties. We also engage







our consumer electronics partners to generate new subscribers for our service. These programs encourage consumers to subscribe to our service and may include a free trial period. At the end of
the free trial period, subscribers are automatically enrolled as paying subscribers, unless they cancel their subscription. All paying subscribers are billed monthly in advance. We believe that our paid marketing efforts are significantly enhanced
by the benefits of word-of-mouth advertising, our subscriber referrals and our active public relations programs.

We use our
proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology to determine which titles are presented to a subscriber. In doing so, we believe we provide our subscribers with a quick and personalized way to find titles they are more likely to enjoy while
also effectively managing our inventory utilization. Our merchandising efforts are used throughout our web site and as part of the user interface on many Netflix Ready Devices to determine which titles are displayed to subscribers, including the
generation of lists of similar titles. We believe our merchandising efforts create a powerful method for catalog browsing and efficient library utilization.

We obtain content through direct purchases, revenue sharing agreements and license agreements with studios, distributors and other suppliers. DVD content is typically obtained through direct purchases or
revenue sharing agreements. Streaming content is generally licensed for a fixed fee for the term of the license agreement.

We
ship and receive DVDs throughout the United States and maintain a nationwide network of shipping centers that allows us to provide fast delivery and return service to our subscribers. We also utilize third party content delivery networks to help us
efficiently stream movies and TV episodes in high volume to Netflix subscribers over the Internet.

We are focused on growing
our subscriber base and revenues and utilizing our proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology to minimize variable and fixed operating costs within the framework of providing a valuable and compelling user experience. Our technology is
extensively employed to manage and integrate our business, including our Web site interface, order processing, fulfillment operations and customer service. We believe that our technology also allows us to maximize our library utilization and to run
our fulfillment operations in a flexible manner with minimal capital requirements.

We are organized in a single operating
segment. We currently generate all our revenues in the United States, although we plan to launch a limited international expansion with a streaming subscription service in 2010. Substantially all our revenues are derived from monthly subscription
fees. We have no long-lived assets outside the United States.

Industry and competitive overview

We operate in the subscription segment of the in-home entertainment video market. In 2007, we expanded our DVD-by-mail distribution model to
include streaming content over the Internet. This hybrid distribution model expands the consumer appeal of the Netflix subscription service beyond the traditional reach of the DVD rental segment and offers subscribers a uniquely compelling selection
of content, both streaming and DVD, for one low monthly price. While the consumer appeal of this hybrid service has grown quickly, the market for Internet delivered video content is still in its formative stages, and we expect competition to be
intense.

Currently the market for Internet delivered video consists of three market segments: video-on-demand
(“VOD”), ad supported, and subscription. The VOD segment includes competitors like Amazon, Apple, Blockbuster, Cinemanow and Microsoft. The ad supported segment includes competitors like Hulu and YouTube. Currently, Netflix is the primary
provider in the subscription segment, but we expect direct and indirect competition to emerge and continue to grow as the consumer appeal for Internet delivery of video continues to expand.

The market for in-home entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. Many consumers maintain simultaneous
relationships with multiple in-home entertainment video providers and can







easily shift spending from one provider to another. For example, consumers may subscribe to cable, rent a DVD from Redbox or Blockbuster, buy a DVD from Wal-Mart or Amazon, download a movie from
Apple iTunes, watch a TV show on Hulu.com, and subscribe to Netflix, or some combination thereof, all in the same month. New competitors may be able to launch new businesses at a relatively low cost. DVDs and Internet delivery of content represent
only two of many existing and potential new technologies for viewing entertainment video. In addition, the growth in adoption of DVD and Internet delivery of content is not mutually exclusive from the growth of other technologies.

Our principal competitors include:



•DVD rental outlets and kiosk services, such as Blockbuster, Movie Gallery and Redbox;



•video package providers with pay-per-view and VOD content including cable providers, such as Time Warner and Comcast; direct broadcast satellite
providers, such as DIRECTV and Echostar; and telecommunication providers such as AT&T and Verizon;



•online DVD subscription rental web sites, such as Blockbuster Online;



•entertainment video retail stores, such as Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Amazon.com; and



•Internet movie and TV content providers, such as Apple’s iTunes, Amazon.com, Hulu.com and Google’s YouTube.

Studio licensing and movie distribution

Motion pictures, including movies and TV episodes (“entertainment video”) are distributed broadly through a variety of channels, including movie theaters, airlines, hotels and in-home. In-home
distribution channels include DVD rental, retail outlets and web sites, Internet delivery and cable, satellite and telecommunication providers offering basic and premium TV, pay-per-view and VOD. Currently, studios distribute movies approximately
three to six months after theatrical release to the home video market, three to seven months after theatrical release to pay-per-view and VOD, one year after theatrical release to premium TV and two to three years after theatrical release to basic
cable and network TV. Internet delivered content is made available typically at the same time as pay-per-view or VOD. However, some content, such as TV episodes, are often made available for Internet viewing shortly after the original airing date.
The major studios and TV networks have continued to experiment with shortened release windows, and we anticipate that they will continue to test a variety of modifications or adjustments to the traditional windows, including releasing movies
simultaneously on DVD and VOD.

Competitive strengths

We believe that our revenue and subscriber growth are a result of the following competitive strengths:

Iconic brand.    Netflix has been highly rated in online retail customer satisfaction by independent surveys from Nielsen Online and in every one of the ten consecutive surveys
conducted by ForeSee/FGI Research. Because of the high level of consumer satisfaction with Netflix, over 90 percent of surveyed subscribers say that they would recommend the Netflix service to a friend. We believe that these high levels of customer
satisfaction and brand loyalty make it expensive and difficult for competitors to displace Netflix as a subscription segment leader.

Personalized merchandising.    We utilize various tools, including our proprietary recommendation technology, to create a custom interface for each subscriber. We believe that this customization enhances the user
experience by helping Netflix subscribers discover great movies. Subscribers rate titles through our service, and our recommendation technology compares these ratings to the database of ratings collected from our entire user base. For each
subscriber, these comparisons are used to make predictions about specific titles the subscriber may enjoy. These predictions, along with other factors, are used to help merchandise titles to







subscribers. We believe that our recommendation technology and our other merchandising practices allow us to create broad-based demand for our library and maximize utilization of our library. By
creating demand for content, we seek to cost-effectively balance subscriber demand between newer, more expensive titles, and older, less expensive titles. Our ability to generate demand for these older, or “long-tail,” titles while
maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction helps us manage and maintain our gross margin, subscriber acquisition cost, churn rate and lifetime subscriber profit. To that end, approximately 70% of the DVDs shipped during 2009 were titles with
DVD release dates greater than 13 weeks.

Growing scale.We have achieved a level of scale in our
business that provides many operational and competitive advantages. From an operational perspective, for example, we are able to cost effectively automate many of our shipping and receiving processes, helping to drive down unit shipping costs while
also providing a better, more consistent experience to our subscribers. Such scale economies also have contributed over time to expanding operating margins which has made it possible for Netflix to aggressively price its service offering at levels
difficult for competition to meet.

Convenience, selection and fast delivery.Subscribers can
conveniently select titles by building and modifying a personalized queue of titles on our Web site or by selecting titles directly from select Netflix Ready Devices. We create a unique experience for subscribers by generating user interfaces on our
Website and Netflix Ready Devices that are tailored to subscribers’ individual rental and ratings history. Subscribers rate approximately 20 million movies a week and Netflix has recorded more than 3 billion ratings to date. Based on each
subscriber’s queue, we ship DVDs by first class mail and subscribers return these DVDs to us in prepaid mailers. After receipt of returned DVDs, we mail our subscribers the next available DVD in their queue of selected titles. We have a vast
array of titles on DVD and our nationwide network of distribution centers allows us to offer fast delivery. In addition, subscribers can select from a growing number of titles that can be watched instantly on their computers or TVs without
commercial interruption. The number of streaming content choices has grown approximately 30% over the year ended December 31, 2009 and is expected to continue to grow rapidly for the foreseeable future.

Growth strategy

Our core
strategy to grow a large subscription business consisting of streaming and DVD-by-mail content includes the following key elements:

Providing compelling value for subscribers.For a low fixed monthly fee, we provide subscribers access to a growing library of movies and TV episodes that can be watched instantly and a vast selection of DVD
titles. We quickly deliver DVDs to subscribers from our shipping centers located throughout the United States by U.S. mail. Subscribers can, at no additional fee, also stream movies and TV episodes to their computers and TVs. There are no due dates,
no late fees, no shipping fees and no pay-per-view fees. We merchandise titles in easy-to-recognize lists including new releases, by genre and other targeted categories. Our recommendation and merchandising technology provides subscribers with
individualized recommendations of titles from our library. Our convenient, easy-to-use Web site allows subscribers to quickly select current titles, reserve upcoming releases and build an individual queue for future viewing.

Utilizing technology to enhance subscriber experience and operate efficiently.We utilize proprietary and other
technology to manage the processing and distribution of DVDs from our shipping centers and the delivery of streaming content over the Internet. Our software and equipment automate the process of tracking and routing DVDs to and from each of our
shipping centers and allocate order responsibilities among them. We continuously monitor, test and seek to improve the efficiency of our distribution, processing and inventory management systems as our subscriber base and shipping volume grows. We
operate a nationwide network of shipping centers and continue to develop this network to meet the demands of our operations. We also utilize third party content delivery networks to help us efficiently stream movies and TV episodes in high volume to
Netflix subscribers over the Internet.

Building mutually beneficial relationships with entertainment video
providers.We have invested substantial resources in establishing strong ties with various entertainment video providers. We maintain an







office in Beverly Hills, California in order to maintain effective working relationships with the major studios. We obtain content through direct purchases, revenue sharing agreements and license
agreements. We work with the content providers to determine which method of acquiring titles is the most beneficial for each party. Our growing subscriber base provides studios with an additional distribution outlet for popular movies and TV
episodes, as well as niche titles and programs.

Expanding the number of devices capable of streaming video from
Netflix.    We have engaged a number of consumer electronics partners to offer instant streaming of content from Netflix to various devices. We currently offer subscribers the ability to stream content through their computers
and other devices, including the Xbox 360, PlayStation3, Internet-connected TVs and Blu-ray players, TiVo, and the Roku video digital player. We intend to broaden our partner relationships over time so that more devices, such as the Nintendo Wii
game console, are capable of streaming content from Netflix. By providing consumers with a broad array of devices capable of streaming content from Netflix, we believe that we enhance the value of our service to subscribers as well as position
ourselves for continued growth as the Internet delivery of content becomes more popular.

Our web site—www.netflix.com

We apply substantial resources to develop and maintain technology to implement the features of our Web site, such as subscription account
signup and management, personalized movie merchandising, inventory optimization and streaming content. We believe that our Web site provides our subscribers with an easy-to-use interface that enhances the value of our service. We believe that our
ability to personally merchandise our content through the Web site optimizes subscriber satisfaction and management of our library by integrating the predictions from our recommendation and merchandising technology, each subscriber’s current
queue and viewing history, inventory levels and other factors to determine which movies to promote to each subscriber. Subscribers pay for our service by a credit or debit card. We utilize third party services to authorize and process our payment
methods. Throughout our Web site, we have extensive measurement and testing capabilities, allowing us to continuously optimize our Web site according to our needs, as well as those of our subscribers. We use random control testing extensively,
including testing service levels, plans, promotions and pricing.

Merchandising

We use our proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology along with other data to determine which titles are presented to a
subscriber. In doing so, we believe we provide our subscribers with a quick and personalized way to find titles they are more likely to enjoy while also effectively managing our inventory utilization. Our merchandising efforts are used throughout
our web site to determine which titles are displayed to subscribers, including the generation of lists of similar titles. We believe our merchandising efforts create a powerful method for catalog browsing and efficient library utilization.

We also provide our subscribers with detailed information about each title in our library which helps them select movies they
will enjoy. This information may include:



•factual data, including length, rating, cast and crew, special DVD features and screen formats;



•movie trailers and other editorial perspectives, including plot synopses and reviews written by our editors, third parties and by other Netflix
subscribers; and



•data from our recommendation and merchandising technology, including personal rating, average rating and other similar titles the subscriber may enjoy.

Marketing

We use multiple marketing channels through which we attract subscribers to our service. Online advertising is an important channel for acquiring subscribers. We advertise our service online through such
vehicles as paid search listings, banner ads, text links and permission based e-mails. In addition, we have an affiliate program







whereby we make available Web-based banner ads and other advertisements that third parties may retrieve on a self-assisted basis from our Web site and place on their Web sites. We also engage our
consumer electronics partners to generate new subscribers for our service. We also advertise our service on various regional and national TV and radio stations. We use targeted, solo direct mail, shared mail and newspaper print advertising to
acquire new subscribers. We also participate in a variety of cooperative advertising programs with studios under the terms of which we receive cash consideration in exchange for featuring the studios movies in Netflix promotional advertising. We
believe that our paid marketing efforts are significantly enhanced by the benefits of word-of-mouth advertising, our subscriber referrals and our active public relations programs.

Content acquisition

We obtain content through direct purchases, revenue
sharing agreements and license agreements. Under our DVD and streaming revenue sharing agreements with studios and distributors, we generally obtain titles for a low initial cost in exchange for a commitment for a defined period of time either to
share a percentage of our subscription revenues or to pay a fee based on content utilization. After the revenue sharing period expires for a DVD, we generally have the option of returning the DVD to the studio, destroying the DVD or purchasing the
DVD. The principal structure of each agreement is similar in nature but the specific terms are generally unique to each studio. We also purchase DVDs from various studios, distributors and other suppliers on a purchase order basis. Under these
arrangements, we typically pay a per disc fee for each of the DVDs we purchase. For titles that are streamed to our subscribers, we generally license the content directly from studios and distributors for a defined period of time. Following
expiration of the license term, we remove the content from our service unless we extend or renew the associated license agreement.

Fulfillment operations

We have allocated substantial resources to developing, maintaining and testing the
technology that helps us manage fulfillment and the integration of our web site, transaction processing systems, fulfillment operations, inventory levels, content delivery networks and coordination of our shipping centers. We ship and receive DVDs
from a nationwide network of shipping centers located throughout the United States. We believe our shipping centers allow us to improve the customer experience for subscribers by shortening the transit time for our DVDs through the U.S. Postal
Service. We also utilize third party content delivery networks to help us efficiently stream movies and TV episodes in high volume to our subscribers over the Internet.

Customer service

We believe that our ability to establish and maintain
long-term relationships with subscribers depends, in part, on the strength of our customer support and service operations. As such, we work on maintaining and improving the overall quality and level of customer service and support we provide to our
subscribers. Our customer service center is located in Hillsboro, Oregon, and primarily handles subscriber inquiries by telephone. In addition, we continue to focus on eliminating the causes of customer support calls and providing certain
self-service features on our web site, such as the ability to report and correct most shipping problems. We continue to explore new avenues to deliver efficient problem resolution and feedback channels.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2009, we had 1,883 full-time employees. We also utilize part-time and temporary employees, primarily in our fulfillment operations, to respond to the fluctuating demand for DVD shipments. As of December 31, 2009, we had 2,197
part-time and temporary employees. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.

Intellectual property

We use a combination of patent, trademark, copyright
and trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. We have filed patents in the U.S. and abroad. While our patents







are an important element of our business, our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any one or a combination of patents. We have registered trademarks and service marks for the
Netflix name and have filed applications for additional trademarks and service marks. Our software, the content of our Web site and other material which we create are protected by copyright. We also protect certain details about our business
methods, processes and strategies as trade secrets, and keep confidential information that we believe gives us a competitive advantage.

Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to certain risks. Enforcement of intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. To date, we have relied primarily
on proprietary processes and know-how to protect our intellectual property. It is uncertain if and when our other patent and trademark applications may be allowed and whether they will provide us with a competitive advantage.

From time to time, we encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. We cannot assure that we will prevail
in any intellectual property dispute.

Other information

We were incorporated in Delaware in August 1997 and completed our initial public offering in May 2002. Our principal executive offices are located at 100 Winchester Circle, Los Gatos, California 95032,
and our telephone number is (408) 540-3700. We maintain a Web site atwww.netflix.com. The contents of our Web site are not incorporated in, or otherwise to be regarded as part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In this Annual Report
on Form 10-K, “Netflix,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” “our” and the “registrant” refer to Netflix, Inc.

Our investor relations Web site is located athttp://ir.netflix.com.We make available, free of charge, on our investor relations Web site under “SEC Filings,” our Annual Reports on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing those reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission.







