Item 1.Business

About us

Netflix Inc. (“Netflix”, “the Company”, “we”, or “us”) is the world’s leading Internet
subscription service for enjoying TV shows and movies. Our subscribers can instantly watch unlimited TV shows and movies streamed over the Internet to their TVs, computers and mobile devices and in the United States, our subscribers can receive
standard definition DVDs, and their high definition successor, Blu-ray discs (collectively referred to as “DVD”), delivered quickly to their homes.

Our core strategy is to grow our streaming subscription business domestically and globally. We are continuously improving the customer experience, with a focus on expanding our streaming content,
enhancing our user interface and extending our streaming service to even more Internet-connected devices, while staying within the parameters of our consolidated net income and operating segment contribution profit targets. In the past, we have
focused on operating margin targets. Going forward, we will be operating within the parameters of contribution profit targets for each of our operating segments. Contribution profit is defined as revenue less cost of revenues and marketing expenses.

We are a pioneer in the Internet delivery of TV shows and movies, launching our streaming service in 2007. Since this launch,
we have developed an ecosystem of Internet-connected devices and have licensed increasing amounts of content that enable consumers to enjoy TV shows and movies directly on their TVs, computers and mobile devices. As a result of these efforts, we
have experienced growing consumer acceptance of and interest in the delivery of TV shows and movies directly over the Internet. We believe that the DVD portion of our domestic service will be a fading differentiator to our streaming success.

Prior to July 2011, in the United States, our streaming and DVD-by-mail operations were combined and subscribers could
receive both streaming content and DVDs under a single “hybrid” plan. In July 2011, we introduced DVD only plans and separated the combined plans, making it necessary for subscribers who wish to receive both DVDs-by-mail and streaming
content to have two separate subscription plans. This resulted in a price increase for our members who were taking a combination of our unlimited DVDs-by-mail and unlimited streaming services. We made a subsequent announcement during the third
quarter of 2011 concerning the rebranding of our DVD-by-mail service and the separation of the DVD-by-mail and streaming websites. The consumer reaction to the price change, and to a lesser degree, the branding announcement, was very negative,
leading to significant customer cancellations. We subsequently retracted our plans to rebrand our DVD-by-mail service and separate the DVD-by-mail and streaming websites.







In September 2010, we began international operations by offering our streaming service in
Canada. In September 2011, we expanded our streaming service to Latin America and the Caribbean. In January 2012, we launched our streaming service in the UK and Ireland. We anticipate significant contribution losses in the International streaming
segment in 2012. Until we reach our goal of global profitability, we do not intend to launch additional international markets.

Competition

The market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. New competitors may be able to
launch new businesses at relatively low cost. Many consumers maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple entertainment video providers and can easily shift spending from one provider to another. Our principal competitors include:



•Multichannel video programming distributors (MVPDs) with free TV Everywhere applications such as HBO GO or Showtime Anytime in the US and SkyGo or BBC
iPlayer in the UK and VOD (video-on-demand) content including cable providers, such as Time Warner and Comcast; direct broadcast satellite providers, such as DIRECTV and Echostar; and telecommunication providers such as AT&T and Verizon;



•“Over-the-top” Internet movie and TV content providers, such as Apple’s iTunes, Amazon.com’s Prime Video, Hulu.com and Hulu Plus,
LOVEFiLM and Google’s YouTube;



•DVD rental outlets and kiosk services, such as Blockbuster and Redbox;



•Entertainment video retailers, such as Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Amazon.com.

Operations

We obtain content from various studios and other content
providers through streaming content license agreements, DVD direct purchases and DVD revenue sharing agreements. We market our service through various channels, including online advertising, broad-based media, such as television and radio, as well
as various strategic partnerships. In connection with marketing the service, we offer free-trial memberships to new members. Rejoining members are an important source of subscriber additions. We utilize the services of third-party cloud computing
providers, more specifically, Amazon Web Services, as well as content delivery networks such as Level 3 Communications, to help us efficiently stream TV shows and movies. We also ship and receive DVDs in the United States from a nationwide network
of shipping centers.

Segments

Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company has three operating segments: Domestic streaming, International streaming and Domestic DVD. The Domestic and International streaming segments derive
revenue from monthly subscription services consisting solely of streaming content. The Domestic DVD segment derives revenue from monthly subscription services consisting solely of DVD-by-mail. For additional information regarding our segments, see
Note 10 of Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Seasonality

Our subscriber growth exhibits a seasonal pattern that reflects variations in when consumers buy Internet-connected devices and when they
tend to increase video watching. As a consequence, subscriber growth is generally greatest in our fourth and first quarters (October through March), slowing in our second quarter (April through June) and then accelerating in our third quarter (July
through September). Additionally, the variable expenses associated with shipments of DVDs are impacted by the seasonal nature of DVD usage.

Intellectual Property

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and
similar intellectual property as important to our success. We use a combination of







patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and confidential agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property. Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property
rights is subject to certain risks and from time to time we encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that we will prevail in any intellectual property disputes.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2011, we had 2,348 full-time employees. We also utilize part-time and temporary employees, primarily in our DVD fulfillment operations, to respond to the fluctuating demand for DVD shipments. Our use of temporary employees has
decreased significantly due to decreased DVD shipments in 2011, as well as increased automation of our shipment centers. As of December 31, 2011, we had 579 part-time and temporary employees. Our employees are not covered by a collective
bargaining agreement, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.

Other information

We were incorporated in Delaware in August 1997 and completed our initial public offering in May 2002. Our principal executive offices are
located at 100 Winchester Circle, Los Gatos, California 95032, and our telephone number is (408) 540-3700.

We maintain a
Web site atwww.netflix.com. The contents of our Web site are not incorporated in, or otherwise to be regarded as part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Netflix,” the “Company,”
“we,” “us,” “our” and the “registrant” refer to Netflix, Inc.

Our investor relations
Web site is located athttp://ir.netflix.com.We use our investor relations Web site as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should
monitor this portion of the Netflix Web site, in addition to following press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We also make available, free of charge, on our investor relations Web site under “SEC Filings,”
our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing those reports to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.







