Item 1.Business

About us

With 20 million subscribers as of December 31, 2010, Netflix Inc. (“Netflix”, “the Company”, “we”, or
“us”) is the world’s leading Internet subscription service for enjoying TV shows and movies. Our subscribers can instantly watch unlimited TV shows and movies streamed over the Internet to their TVs, computers and mobile devices and,
in the United States, subscribers can also receive standard definition DVDs, and their high definition successor, Blu-ray discs (collectively referred to as “DVD”), delivered quickly to their homes.

Our core strategy is to grow our streaming subscription business within the United States and globally. We are continuously improving the
customer experience, with a focus on expanding our streaming content, enhancing our user interfaces and extending our streaming service to even more Internet-connected devices, while staying within the parameters of our operating margin targets.

By continuously improving the customer experience, we believe we drive additional subscriber growth in the following ways:



•Additional subscriber growth enables us to obtain more content, which in turn drives more subscriber growth.



•Additional subscriber growth leads to greater word-of-mouth promotion of our service, which in turn leads to more subscriber growth at an increasingly
cost-effective marketing spend.



•Additional subscriber growth enables us to invest in further improvements to our service offering, which in turn leads to more subscriber growth.

Our business has and continues to evolve rapidly. In 2010, we passed a significant milestone with the
majority of our subscribers viewing more of their TV shows and movies via streaming than by DVD. Going forward, we expect we will be primarily a global streaming business, with the added feature of DVDs-by-mail in the U.S. We believe delivery of
entertainment video over the Internet will be a very large global market opportunity, and that our focus on one segment of that market—consumer-paid, commercial-free streaming subscription of TV shows and movies—will enable us to continue
to grow rapidly and profitably.

Competition

The market for entertainment video is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. New competitors may be able to launch new businesses at relatively low cost. Many consumers maintain simultaneous







relationships with multiple entertainment video providers and can easily shift spending from one provider to another. Our principal competitors include:



•Multichannel video programming distributors (MVPDs) with free TV Everywhere and VOD (video-on-demand) content including cable providers, such as Time
Warner and Comcast; direct broadcast satellite providers, such as DIRECTV and Echostar; and telecommunication providers such as AT&T and Verizon;



•Internet movie and TV content providers, such as Apple’s iTunes, Amazon.com, Hulu.com and Google’s YouTube;



•DVD rental outlets and kiosk services, such as Blockbuster and Redbox;



•Entertainment video retailers, such as Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Amazon.com.

Operations

We obtain content from various studios and other content
providers through fixed-fee licenses, revenue sharing agreements and direct purchases. We market our service through various channels, including online advertising, broad-based media, such as television and radio, as well as various strategic
partnerships. In connection with marketing the service, we offer free-trial memberships to new and certain rejoining members. Rejoining members are an important source of subscriber additions. We utilize the services of third-party cloud computing
providers, more specifically, Amazon Web Services, as well as content delivery networks such as Level 3 Communications, to help us efficiently stream TV shows and movies. We also ship and receive DVDs in the United States from a nationwide network
of shipping centers.

Segments

We derive revenues from monthly subscription fees in our two segments, United States and International. In September 2010, we began international operations by offering an unlimited streaming plan without
DVDs in Canada. We anticipate further international expansion to additional markets in the second half of 2011. We currently generate substantially all our revenues in the United States and hold all our long lived assets in the United States.

Seasonality

Our subscriber growth exhibits a seasonal pattern that reflects variations in when consumers buy Internet-connected devices and when they
tend to increase video watching. As a consequence, subscriber growth is generally greatest in our fourth and first quarters (October through March), slowing in our second quarter (April through June) and then accelerating in our third quarter (July
through September). Additionally, the variable expenses associated with shipments of DVDs are impacted by the seasonal nature of the DVD release of movies.

Intellectual Property

We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights,
patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as important to our success. We use a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and confidential agreements to
protect our proprietary intellectual property. Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to certain risks and from time to time we encounter disputes over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property.
We cannot provide assurance that we will prevail in any intellectual property disputes.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had 2,180 full-time employees. We also utilize part-time and temporary employees, primarily in our DVD
fulfillment operations, to respond to the fluctuating demand for DVD shipments. As of December 31, 2010, we had 2,149 part-time and temporary employees. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our
relations with our employees to be good.







Other information

We were incorporated in Delaware in August 1997 and completed our initial public offering in May 2002. Our principal executive offices are located at 100 Winchester Circle, Los Gatos, California 95032,
and our telephone number is (408) 540-3700.

We maintain a Web site atwww.netflix.com. The contents of our Web
site are not incorporated in, or otherwise to be regarded as part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Netflix,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” “our” and the
“registrant” refer to Netflix, Inc.

Our investor relations Web site is located athttp://ir.netflix.com.We
intend to use our investor relations Web site as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor this portion of the Netflix Web site,
in addition to following press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. We also make available, free of charge, on our investor relations Web site under “SEC Filings,” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing those reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission.







