ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating the Company and its common stock. Any of the following risks, or other risks or uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition, and could, in turn, impact the trading price of the Company’s common stock.

The ongoing novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and other similar epidemics, pandemics or widespread health crises could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position.

The ongoing COVID-19 outbreak and other similar epidemics, pandemics or widespread health crises, and the resulting responses of governments, businesses and consumers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to the implementation of unprecedented and wide-ranging measures by international, federal, state and local public health and governmental authorities to contain and combat the outbreak and spread of the virus, including quarantines, shelter-in-place and other social distancing orders, event cancellations, travel restrictions, school shutdowns and orders for many businesses to curtail or cease normal operations. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures to prevent its spread have, in turn, created significant economic volatility, uncertainty and disruption and have subjected the Company’s businesses to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following:

•

Lower revenue and profitability

. Advertising revenues have been, and are expected to continue to be, adversely impacted by the recent economic downturn resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and reduced spending by advertisers, particularly in the travel, retail, entertainment and real estate industries. Business curtailments, closures and other operational changes and shelter-in-place orders have also caused, and may continue to cause, a decline in, among other things, new listing and other Real Estate revenues, sales of print books and newspapers, live journalism event revenues and commercial subscription revenues and new subscriber acquisitions at the Subscription Video Services segment. Subscription revenues from broadcast and Kayo subscribers in the Subscription Video Services segment have also been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the cancellation or postponement of sports events for which the Company has broadcast rights and other disruptions in the creation and availability of film and television programming caused by COVID-19. In addition, profitability in future periods may be adversely impacted even though some previously postponed events have restarted, as the Company has resumed recognizing programming amortization expense for those events but may not generate sufficient incremental subscription and advertising revenues to offset these costs and compensate for prior losses. It is possible in some cases that revenue and/or profitability may not return to pre-pandemic levels.

While the Company has seen growth in some areas of its business during the COVID-19 pandemic, including digital   subscribers at its newspaper businesses and e-book sales at its Book Publishing segment, driven in part by the current news environment and other pandemic-related circumstances, this growth may not be sustainable, particularly in the event of a prolonged economic downturn.

•Disruptions in the Company’s supply chain. The Company’s supply chain, including its printing facilities, as well as the printing, manufacturing and other facilities and operations of its third-party suppliers and vendors, may be disrupted by facility closures, reductions in operating hours, labor shortages and changes in operating procedures. Similarly, the COVID-19 pandemic may negatively affect the Company’s distribution and logistics providers’ ability to operate or increase their operating costs. Economic disruption and uncertainty may also cause the Company’s suppliers, vendors and distribution and logistics providers to experience financial difficulties and result in volatility in paper and other input





costs. These supply chain effects may have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to meet consumer demand and could result in an increase in its costs of production and distribution.

•Efforts to address and mitigate the adverse impacts of COVID-19 may not be successful and may result in the incurrence of costs and/or negatively impact the Company’s revenues. The Company is devoting substantial time and resources to addressing and mitigating the effect of COVID-19. These efforts, including operational changes, measures to reduce variable costs and the implementation of cost-savings initiatives across its businesses, may divert resources and the attention of the Company’s senior management from other aspects of the Company’s operations, including previously planned initiatives. Operational changes and cost containment measures such as workforce reductions and the shift to digital-only editions for certain local Australian newspapers have caused, and may continue to cause, the Company to incur restructuring and other costs, while business support measures, including re-list and re-upgrade offers for new listings and price concessions at the Digital Real Estate Services segment, have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, revenues. There can be no assurance that any efforts taken by the Company to address and/or mitigate the impact of COVID-19 will be successful or substantially offset declines in revenues.

•Adverse Workforce Impacts. The Company’s operations may be adversely affected if a substantial number of employees or key personnel become ill or are quarantined as a result of COVID-19. The Company has instituted remote working arrangements for a substantial majority of its employees in order to protect their well-being and comply with applicable regulations and guidance. However, there is no certainty that such measures will mitigate the risks posed by COVID-19, and an extended period of remote work arrangements could strain the Company’s business continuity plans, introduce operational risk, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks or risks to the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls, and adversely affect the Company’s productivity and ability to manage its business and perform critical functions.

The Company Operates in a Highly Competitive Business Environment, and its Success Depends on its Ability to Compete Effectively.

The Company faces significant competition from other sources of news, information and entertainment, including both traditional and new content providers. This competition continues to intensify as a result of rapid changes in technologies, platforms and business models, and the Company may be adversely affected if consumers or customers migrate to other alternatives. For example, advertising and circulation revenues at the Company’s newspaper businesses may continue to decline, reflecting consumers’ increasing reliance on a variety of content providers and platforms, including search engines, news aggregation websites, social media networks and customized news feeds, for the delivery of news and information, often without charge. In addition, due to the increased availability of high-speed internet access and developments in content distribution platforms that enable streaming and downloading of programming, consumers are now more readily able to watch internet-delivered content through an increasing variety of providers. These providers include IPTV and SVOD services, such as Fetch TV, Netflix, Stan and Amazon Prime Video, streaming services offered through digital media providers, such as YouTube and Facebook, as well as programmers and distributors, such as CBS, Disney and the FTA networks, that provide content, including smaller, lower-cost or free programming packages, directly to consumers over the internet. The increasing number of choices available to consumers for





video content, many of which provide original or exclusive content, has caused some of the subscribers to the Company’s pay-TV services to disconnect their services, downgrade to smaller, less expensive programming packages or purchase certain services from other providers, and this may continue. This trend has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, both the Company’s subscription revenue and, in turn, advertisers’ willingness to purchase television advertising from the Company, as well as increase subscriber acquisition, retention and other costs.

The Company expects to continue to pursue new strategic initiatives and develop new products and services in order to remain competitive, such as its OTT strategy and the migration of subscribers from cable to satellite or internet delivery at its pay-TV business and its referral-based model for its U.S. digital real estate business. The Company has incurred, and may in the future be required to incur, significant capital expenditures, marketing and other costs in order to implement these strategies and develop these new products and services, which may be dilutive to its earnings. There can be no assurance these strategic initiatives, products and services will be successful in the manner or time period the Company expects or that it will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits it expects to achieve. The failure to realize those benefits could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Company is targeting a different demographic with its streaming services, which are offered at a lower price point than its traditional broadcast subscription packages. However, if instead those streaming offerings cause broadcast subscribers to disconnect their services or downgrade to smaller, less expensive programming packages, the Company’s revenues may be materially and adversely affected.

Some of the Company’s current and potential competitors may have greater resources, fewer regulatory burdens, better competitive positions in certain areas, greater operating capabilities, greater access to sources of content, data, technology or other services or strategic relationships and/or easier access to financing, which may allow them to respond more effectively to changes in technology, consumer and customer needs and preferences and market conditions. Continued consolidation among competitors in certain industries in which the Company operates may increase these advantages, including through greater scale, financial leverage and/or access to content, data, technology and other offerings. If the Company is unable to compete successfully against existing or future competitors, its business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

The Company Must Respond to Evolving Technologies and Changes in Consumer and Customer Needs and Behavior and Continue to Innovate and Provide Useful Products and Services in Order to Remain Competitive.





behavior that reduce the Company’s ability to serve advertising based on user data and behaviors or at all, which would adversely affect the attractiveness of the Company’s offerings to advertisers.

Technological developments have in many cases also increased competition by significantly lowering barriers to entry. For example, content providers are now able to compete with the Company’s pay-TV business via direct-to-consumer offerings, as internet streaming capabilities have enabled the disaggregation of content delivery from the ownership of network infrastructure. Other digital platforms and technologies, such as user-generated sites and self-publishing tools, have also reduced the effort and expense of producing and distributing content on a wide scale, allowing digital content providers, customers, suppliers and other third parties to compete with the Company, often at a lower cost. This trend may drive down the price consumers and customers are willing to spend on the Company’s products and services. Additional digital distribution channels, such as online retailers and digital marketplaces, have presented, and may continue to present, challenges to the Company’s business models, including its traditional book publishing model, which could adversely affect sales volume and/or pricing.

A Decline in Customer Advertising Expenditures in the Company’s Newspaper and Other Businesses Could Cause its Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly.

The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising through its newspapers, digital media properties, cable channels and other pay-TV programming and radio stations. The Company’s ability to generate advertising revenue is dependent on a number of factors, including: (1) demand for the Company’s products and services, (2) audience fragmentation, (3) digital advertising trends, (4) its ability to offer advertising products and formats sought by advertisers, (5) general economic and business conditions, (6) demographics of the customer base, (7) advertising rates, (8) advertising effectiveness and (9) maintaining its brand strength and reputation.

Demand for the Company’s products and services depends upon the Company’s ability to differentiate those products and services and anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer behaviors and is evaluated based on a variety of metrics. For example, circulation levels for the Company’s newspapers, ratings points for its cable channels and number of listeners for its radio stations are among the factors advertisers consider when determining the amount of advertising to purchase from the Company as well as advertising rates. For the Company’s digital media properties, advertisers evaluate consumer demand using metrics such as the number of visits, number of users and user engagement. Any difficulty or failure in accurately measuring demand, particularly demand generated through new platforms, may lead to under-measurement and, in turn, lower advertising pricing and spending.

The increasing popularity of digital media among consumers as a source of news and other content, and the ability of digital advertising offerings to deliver targeted advertising promptly, has driven a corresponding shift in advertising from traditional channels to digital platforms. Large digital platforms in particular, such as Facebook, Google and Amazon, which have extensive audience reach, audience data and targeting capabilities, have commanded an increasing share of the digital advertising market in recent years, and the Company expects this trend to continue. The shift to digital media has significantly impacted the Company’s print advertising revenues, which have declined in each of its last three fiscal years. New devices and technologies, as well as higher consumer engagement with other forms of digital media such as online and mobile social networking, are also increasing the number of media choices and formats available to audiences, resulting in audience fragmentation and increased competition for advertising. The range of advertising choices across digital products and platforms and the large inventory of available digital advertising space have historically resulted in significantly lower rates for digital advertising than for print advertising. In





addition, in the past, rates have been generally lower for mobile advertising than for desktop advertising. As a result, increasing consumer reliance on mobile devices may add additional pricing pressure. Consequently, the Company’s digital advertising revenue may not be able to replace print advertising revenue lost as a result of the shift to digital consumption.

The Company’s print and digital advertising revenue is also affected generally by overall national and local economic and business conditions, including consumer spending, housing sales, auto sales, unemployment rates and job creation, advertisers’ budgeting and buying patterns, which tend to be cyclical, as well as federal, state and local election and other news cycles. Natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics (including COVID-19) and other widespread health crises or acts of terrorism have led and could continue to lead to greater economic uncertainty and reduced spending by advertisers. In addition, certain sectors of the economy account for a significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues, including retail, technology and finance. Some of these sectors, such as retail, are more susceptible to weakness in economic conditions and have also been under pressure from business curtailments and closures and other measures implemented in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as increased online competition. A decline in the economic prospects of these and other advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities or result in consolidation or closures across various industries, which may reduce the Company’s overall advertising revenue.

While the Company has adopted a number of strategies and initiatives to address these challenges, there can be no guarantee that its efforts will be successful. If the Company is unable to demonstrate the continuing value of its various platforms and high-quality content and brands or offer advertisers unique multi-platform advertising programs, its results may suffer. Reduced demand for the Company’s offerings, a decrease in advertising expenditures by the Company’s customers or a surplus of advertising inventory could lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and assets, results of operations and financial condition.

The Inability to Obtain and Retain Sports, Entertainment and Other Programming Rights and Content Could Adversely Affect the Revenue of Certain of the Company’s Operating Businesses, and Costs Could Also Increase Upon Renewal.





outbid the Company for those rights and/or for any new programming offerings. In addition, as other content providers develop their own competing services, they may be unwilling to provide the Company with access to certain content. For example, professional sports leagues or teams, as well as programmers and distributors such as CBS and Disney, have created and may continue to create their own direct-to-consumer offerings. Further, consolidation among content providers may increase the amount of content that could become unavailable to the Company. The loss of rights may adversely affect the breadth or quality of the Company’s content offerings, including the extent of the sports coverage and the availability of other popular entertainment programming offered by the Company and lead to customer or audience dissatisfaction or, in some cases, loss of customers or audiences, which could, in turn, adversely affect its revenues. In addition, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if upon renewal, escalations in programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in subscriber and carriage fees and advertising rates. The long-term nature of some of the Company’s content commitments may also limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, business and economic conditions (including COVID-19) and the market segments in which it operates.

Weak Domestic and Global Economic Conditions and Volatility and Disruption in the Financial and Other Markets May Adversely Affect the Company’s Business.

In addition, further volatility and disruption in the financial markets could make it more difficult and expensive for the Company to obtain financing or refinance its existing indebtedness. These conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom the Company does business to satisfy their obligations to the Company, including as a result of their inability to obtain capital on acceptable terms. Although the Company believes that its cash on hand, operating cash flow and current access to credit and capital markets, including the Company’s revolving credit facility, will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for at least the next 12 months, there can be no assurance that any further volatility and disruption in domestic and global credit and capital markets will not impair the Company’s liquidity or increase its cost of borrowing.

The Company Has Made and May Continue to Make Strategic Acquisitions, Investments and Divestitures That Introduce Significant Risks and Uncertainties.

In order to position its business to take advantage of growth opportunities, the Company has made and may continue to make strategic acquisitions and investments that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, among others: (1) the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner, (2) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other anticipated benefits, (3) the potential loss of key employees, customers and suppliers, (4) with respect to investments, risks associated with the inability to control the operations of the business, (5) the risk of diverting the attention of the Company’s senior management from the Company’s operations, (6) the risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems, (7) the difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses, (8) in the case of foreign acquisitions





and investments, the impact of specific economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with the relevant countries, (9) liabilities, both known and unknown, associated with the acquired businesses or investments, (10) in some cases, increased regulation and (11) in some cases, lower liquidity as a result of the use of cash or incurrence of debt to fund such acquisition or investment. If any acquired business or investment fails to operate as anticipated or an acquired business cannot be successfully integrated with the Company’s existing businesses, the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation could be adversely affected, and the Company may be required to record non-cash impairment charges for the write-down of certain acquired assets.

The Company has also divested and may in the future divest certain assets or businesses that no longer fit with its strategic direction or growth targets. Divestitures involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. These include, among others, the inability to find potential buyers on favorable terms, disruption to its business and/or diversion of management attention from other business concerns, loss of key employees, difficulties in separating the operations of the divested business and retention of certain liabilities related to the divested business.

Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Results of Operations.

The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its consolidated debt when the debt is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the operations whose cash flows support the ability to repay or refinance such debt. As of June 30, 2020, the Foxtel operating subsidiaries, whose functional currency is Australian dollars, had approximately $350 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company’s policy is to hedge against the risk of foreign currency exchange rate movements with respect to this exposure where commercially reasonable. However, there can be no assurance that it will be able to continue to do so at a reasonable cost or at all, or that there will not be a default by any of the counterparties to those arrangements.

In addition, the Company is exposed to foreign currency translation risk because it has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of its operations are conducted in currencies other than the Company’s reporting currency, primarily the Australian dollar and the British pound sterling. Since the Company’s financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, a currency translation impact on the Company’s earnings when the results of those operations that are reported in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars for inclusion in the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on its reported results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. The economic volatility and uncertainty caused by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has led to significant and adverse exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and both the Australian dollar and the British pound sterling in recent periods. In addition, exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the British pound sterling are expected to remain volatile due to continued economic and political uncertainty in the U.K. as a result of its failure to secure agreements with the European Union regarding trade, finance and other key matters prior to Brexit.

The Company Relies on Network and Information Systems and Other Technology Whose Failure or Misuse Could Cause a Disruption of Services or Loss, Improper Access to or Disclosure of Personal Data, Business Information, Including Intellectual Property, or Other Confidential Information, Resulting in Increased Costs, Loss of Revenue, Reputational Damage or Other Harm to the Company’s Business.





software applications the Company develops or procures from third parties could unexpectedly disrupt the Company’s network and information systems or compromise information security.

The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges.





fair value of certain reporting units. Any downward revisions in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or other long-lived assets could result in additional impairments for which non-cash charges would be required, and any such charge could be material to the Company’s reported results of operations. For example, in fiscal 2020, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of $1,690 million, primarily due to a $931 million write-down of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets at its Foxtel reporting unit as a result of lower expected broadcast subscribers and the expected negative impact of COVID-19 on advertising, OTT and commercial subscriber revenues in the near term, $410 million of write-downs related to News America Marketing, including $175 million related to the reclassification to assets held for sale, and $292 million in impairments of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets identified during the Company's annual impairment assessment. In addition, as of June 30, 2020, the Company had approximately $908 million of goodwill that is at risk for future impairment because the fair values of the corresponding reporting units equaled their respective carrying values. The Company may also incur additional restructuring charges in the future if it is required to further realign its resources in response to significant shortfalls in revenue or other adverse trends.

There Can Be No Assurance That the Company Will Have Access to the Credit and Capital Markets on Terms Acceptable to It, and the Leverage of its Foxtel Operating Subsidiaries Could Limit the Ability of Those Subsidiaries to Access the Credit and Capital Markets and Have Other Adverse Effects.

These instruments also generally include financial covenants requiring the Foxtel operating subsidiaries to maintain specified net debt to EBITDA and net interest coverage ratios. In the event any of these covenants are breached and such breach results in a default under any of the Foxtel operating subsidiaries’ Debt Documents, the lenders or noteholders, as applicable, may accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness under the applicable Debt Documents, which could result in a default under other outstanding Debt Documents and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operation and financial condition.

The Company’s Business Could Be Adversely Impacted by Changes in Governmental Policy and Regulation.

Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed, and





changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries, could have a negative impact on its interests. In addition, laws and regulations vary between local, state, federal and international jurisdictions, and the enforcement of those laws and regulations may be inconsistent and unpredictable. The Company may incur substantial costs or be required to change its business practices in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations and could incur substantial penalties or other liabilities in the event of any failure to comply.

The Company’s Australian operating businesses may be adversely affected by changes in government policy, regulation or legislation, or the application or enforcement thereof, applying to companies in the Australian media industry or to Australian companies in general. This includes:

•anti-siphoning legislation which currently prevents pay-TV providers such as Foxtel from acquiring rights to televise certain listed events (for example, the Olympic Games and certain Australian Rules football and cricket matches) unless:

–national or commercial television broadcasters have not obtained these rights 26 weeks before the start of the event;

–the rights are held by commercial television licensees whose television broadcasting services cover more than 50% of the Australian population; or

–the rights are held by one of Australia’s two major government-funded broadcasters;

•other parts of the Broadcasting Services Act that regulate ownership interests and control of Australian media organizations. Such legislation may have an impact on the Company’s ownership structure and operations and may restrict its ability to take advantage of acquisition or investment opportunities; and

•the Telecommunications Act and associated Codes, which apply various consumer protection regimes to Foxtel as a telecommunications service provider.

In addition, the Company’s newspaper publishing businesses in the U.K. are subject to greater regulation and oversight as a result of the implementation of recommendations of the Leveson inquiry into the U.K. press. Following the inquiry, the U.K. Government established a Press Recognition Panel responsible for approving and monitoring a new press regulatory body. Publishers who are not members of an approved regulator, including the Company, may be subject to exemplary damages in privacy and libel cases and, if Section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 is commenced, the payment of costs for both parties in libel actions in certain circumstances. The majority of the U.K. press, including News UK, has established an alternative regulator, the Independent Press Standards Organisation, or IPSO. IPSO, which has indicated that it does not intend to seek approval by the Press Recognition Panel, has powers to impose burdens on its print media members in the U.K. These powers, which include the ability to impose fines of up to £1 million for systemic breaches of IPSO’s Editor’s Code of Practice, may result in competitive disadvantages versus other forms of media and may increase the costs of regulatory compliance.





The Company’s radio stations in the U.K. and Ireland are also subject to governmental regulation by the relevant broadcast authorities as the Company is required to obtain and maintain licenses from such authorities to operate these stations. Although the Company expects its licenses will, where relevant, be renewed in the ordinary course upon their expiration, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Non-compliance by the Company with the requirements associated with such licenses or other applicable laws and regulations, including of the relevant authority, could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other adverse regulatory actions.

Adverse Results from Litigation or Other Proceedings Could Impact the Company’s Business Practices and Operating Results.

From time to time, the Company is party to litigation, as well as to regulatory and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies, including with respect to antitrust, tax, data privacy and security, intellectual property, employment and other matters. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 17 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of certain matters. The outcome of these matters and other litigation and proceedings is subject to significant uncertainty, and it is possible that an adverse resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm and/or significant monetary damages, injunctive relief or settlement costs that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition as well as the Company’s ability to conduct its business as it is presently being conducted. In addition, regardless of merit or outcome, such proceedings can have an adverse impact on the Company as a result of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel, and other factors.

The Company Could Be Subject to Significant Additional Tax Liabilities, which Could Adversely Affect its Operating Results and Financial Condition.

The Company is subject to taxation in U.S. federal, state and local jurisdictions and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, including Australia and the U.K. The Company’s effective tax rate is impacted by the tax laws, regulations, practices and interpretations in the jurisdictions in which it operates and may fluctuate significantly from period to period depending on, among other things, the geographic mix of the Company’s profits and losses, changes in tax laws and regulations or their application and interpretation, the outcome of tax audits and changes in valuation allowances associated with the Company’s deferred tax assets. The Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances if, among other things, adverse economic conditions, including those caused by COVID-19, negatively impact the Company’s ability to realize its deferred tax assets. Evaluating and estimating the Company’s tax provision, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and other tax accruals requires significant management judgment, and there are often transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.

The Company’s tax returns are routinely audited by various tax authorities. Tax authorities may not agree with the treatment of items reported in the Company’s tax returns or positions taken by the Company, and as a result, tax-related settlements or litigation may occur, resulting in additional income tax liabilities against the Company. Although the Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of tax reviews and examinations and any related litigation, the final outcomes of these matters could differ materially from the amounts recorded in the Financial Statements. As a result, the Company may be required to recognize additional charges in its Statements of Operations and pay significant additional amounts with respect to current or prior periods, or its taxes in the future could increase, which could adversely affect its operating results and financial condition.

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development continues its program of work to develop a consensus solution in relation to its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Action 1, addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digitalization of the Economy. The outcome of this program may change various aspects of the existing framework under which the Company’s tax obligations are determined in countries in which it does business. Several foreign jurisdictions have separately introduced new digital services taxes on revenue of companies that provide certain digital services. While the unilateral digital services taxes in force in countries to date, including the U.K., have had limited impact on the Company’s overall tax obligations, the Company continues to monitor proposals for new digital services taxes in various countries. There is limited guidance about the applicability of these new taxes to the Company’s businesses and significant uncertainty as to what type of digital services will be deemed in scope. If these new taxes are applied to the Company’s revenue in these foreign jurisdictions, it could have an adverse impact on its business and financial performance.

Theft of the Company’s Content, including Digital Piracy and Signal Theft, may Decrease Revenue and Adversely Affect the Company’s Business and Profitability.

The Company’s success depends in part on its ability to maintain and monetize the intellectual property rights in its content, and theft of its brands, programming, digital content, books and other copyrighted material affects the value of its content. Developments in technology, including the wide availability of higher internet bandwidth and reduced storage costs, increase the





The Company’s Pay-TV Business Depends on a Single or Limited Number of Suppliers for Certain Key Products and Services,and Any Reduction or Interruption in the Supply of These Products and Services or a Significant Increase in Price Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

The Company’s pay-TV business depends on a single or limited number of third party suppliers to supply certain key products and services necessary to provide its pay-TV services. In particular, the Company depends on Optus to provide all of its satellite transponder capacity, and ARRIS and Technicolor are the Company’s sole suppliers of satellite set-top boxes and the Foxtel Now box, respectively. If any of these suppliers breaches or terminates its agreement with the Company or otherwise fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner, experiences operating or financial difficulties, is unable to meet demand due to component shortages, insufficient capacity or otherwise, significantly increases the amount the Company pays for necessary products or services or ceases production of any necessary product, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.

In addition, Telstra is the primary supplier of cable distribution capacity for the Company’s pay-TV programming and is also currently the exclusive provider of wholesale fixed voice and broadband services for the Company’s pay-TV business, as well as its primary supplier of wholesale mobile voice and broadband services and the largest reseller of its cable and satellite products. Any disruption in the supply of those services or a decline in Telstra’s business could result in disruptions to the supply of, and/or reduce the number of subscribers for, the Company’s products and services, which could, in turn, adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.

While the Company will seek alternative sources for the products and services described above where possible and/or permissible under applicable agreements, it may not be able to develop these alternative sources quickly and cost-effectively, which could impair its ability to timely deliver its products and services to its subscribers or operate its business.

The Company’s International Operations Expose it to Additional Risks that Could Adversely Affect its Business, Operating Results and Financial Condition.





and the European Union, create uncertainty around doing business in the U.K. and result in additional costs and compliance obligations, including with respect to tariffs and other trade barriers, data protection and transfer, tax rates and the recruitment and retention of employees. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with the Company’s international operations could result in reputational harm and have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Challenges associated with operating globally may increase as the Company continues to expand into geographic areas that it believes represent the highest growth opportunities.

The Company is Party to Agreements with Third Parties Relating to Certain of its Businesses That Contain Operational and Management Restrictions and/or Other Rights That, Depending on the Circumstances, May Not be in the Best Interest of the Company.

The Company is party to agreements with third parties relating to certain of its businesses that restrict the Company’s ability to take specified actions and contain other rights that, depending on the circumstances, may not be in the best interest of the Company. For example, the Company and Telstra are parties to a Shareholders’ Agreement with respect to Foxtel containing certain minority protections for Telstra, including standard governance provisions, as well as transfer and exit rights. The Shareholders’ Agreement provides Telstra with the right to appoint two directors to the Board of Foxtel, as well as Board and shareholder-level veto rights over certain non-ordinary course and/or material corporate actions that may prevent Foxtel from taking actions that are in the interests of the Company. The Shareholders’ Agreement also provides for (1) certain transfer restrictions, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to effect such transfers and/or the prices at which those transfers may occur, and (2) exit arrangements, which could, in certain circumstances, force the Company to sell its interest, subject to rights of first and, in some cases, last refusals.

In addition, Move, the Company’s digital real estate services business in the U.S., operates the realtor.com®website under an agreement with NAR that is perpetual in duration. However, NAR may terminate the operating agreement for certain contractually-specified reasons upon expiration of applicable cure periods. If the operating agreement with NAR is terminated, the NAR License would also terminate, and Move would be required to transfer a copy of the software that operates the realtor.com®website to NAR and provide NAR with copies of its agreements with advertisers and data content providers. NAR would then be able to operate a realtor.com®website, either by itself or with another third party.

Failure by the Company to Protect Certain Intellectual Property and Brands, or Infringement Claims by Third Parties, Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Business, Results of Operation and Financial Condition.

Any Significant Increase in Newsprint Costs or Disruption in the Company’s Newsprint Supply Chain or Newspaper Printing and Distribution Channels may Adversely Affect the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

Newsprint is a significant expense for the Company’s newspaper publishing units. The price of newsprint has historically been volatile, and a number of factors may cause prices to increase, including: (1) the closure and consolidation of newsprint mills or the conversion of newsprint mills to other products or grades of paper, which has reduced the number of newsprint suppliers over





the years; (2) the imposition of tariffs or other restrictions on non-U.S. suppliers of paper; (3) an increase in supplier operating expenses due to rising raw material or energy costs or other factors; (4) failure to maintain the Company’s current consumption levels; and (5) the inability to maintain the Company’s existing relationships with its newsprint suppliers. The Company also relies on third party suppliers for deliveries of newsprint and printing and distribution partners to print and distribute its newspapers in some areas. Financial pressures, newspaper industry economics, labor unrest, changes in laws and regulations, transportation issues or other circumstances affecting these third-party suppliers and print and distribution partners, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, could lead to disruptions in the Company’s newsprint supply chain and/or reduced operations or consolidations of third-party print sites and/or distribution routes, which could increase the cost of printing and distributing the Company’s newspapers. Any significant increase in the cost of newsprint, undersupply or significant disruptions in the newsprint supply chain or newspaper printing and distribution channels could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.

Damage, Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Transmitter Facilities that the Company’s Pay-TV Business Depends Upon to Distribute its Programming Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

The Company is Subject to Payment Processing Risk Which Could Lead to Adverse Effects on the Company’s Business and Results of Operations.

The Company’s customers pay for its products and services using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, prepaid cards, direct debit, online wallets and through direct carrier and partner billing. The Company relies on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. Acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. To the extent there are increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, delays in receiving payments from payment processors, any failures to comply with, or changes to, rules or regulations concerning payments, loss of payment or billing partners and/or disruptions or failures in, or fraudulent use of or access to, payment processing systems or payment products, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely impacted and it could suffer reputational harm. Furthermore, if the Company is unable to maintain its fraud and chargeback rates at acceptable levels, card networks may impose fines and its card approval rate may be impacted. The termination of the Company’s ability to process payments on any major payment method would adversely affect its business and results of operations.

Labor Disputes May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business.

In a variety of the Company’s businesses, it engages the services of employees who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company is unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins.

The Market Price of the Company’s Stock May Fluctuate Significantly.

The Company cannot predict the prices at which its common stock may trade. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond its control, including: (1) the





Company’s quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in its industry; (2) actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s operating results; (3) success or failure of the Company’s business strategy; (4) the Company’s ability to obtain financing as needed; (5) changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (6) changes in laws and regulations affecting the Company’s business; (7) announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant new business developments or the addition or loss of significant customers; (8) announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; (9) changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or the Company’s ability to meet its earnings guidance, if any; (10) the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; (11) investor perception of the Company and the industries in which it operates; (12) results from material litigation or governmental investigations; (13) changes in capital gains taxes and taxes on dividends affecting stockholders; (14) overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions; and (15) changes in the amounts and frequency of dividends or share repurchases, if any. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has amplified many of the foregoing factors and resulted in additional volatility in the Company’s stock price.

Certain FCC Rules and Regulations and the Separation and Distribution Agreement May Restrict the Company From Acquiring or Owning Certain Types of Assets in the U.S.

The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) has promulgated certain rules and regulations that limit the common ownership of radio and television broadcast stations and the common ownership of broadcast stations and newspapers (the “Broadcast Ownership Rules”) and place commercial restrictions on a cable network programmer in which a cable television operator holds an ownership interest (the “Program Access Rules”). In November 2017, the FCC voted to eliminate the Broadcast Ownership Rules, and the order became effective in February 2018. However, in September 2019, a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (the “Third Circuit”) issued an Order vacating the FCC’s order and reinstating the Broadcast Ownership Rules. The FCC’s petition for en banc review was denied in November 2019, following which a mandate reinstating the Broadcast Ownership Rules was issued. The FCC and certain other parties filed Petitions for Writ of Certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court appealing the Third Circuit’s decision in April 2020 and are awaiting a ruling.

Certain of the Company’s Directors and Officers May Have Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest Because of Their Equity Ownership in Fox Corporation (“FOX”), and/or Because They Also Serve as Officers and/or on the Board of Directors of FOX, Which May Result in the Diversion of Certain Corporate Opportunities to FOX.

Certain of the Company’s directors and executive officers own shares of FOX’s common stock, and the individual holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. In addition, certain of the Company’s officers and directors also serve as officers and/or as directors of FOX, including K. Rupert Murdoch, who serves as the Company’s Executive Chairman and Co-Chairman of FOX, and Lachlan K. Murdoch, who serves as the Company’s Co-Chairman and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of FOX. This ownership or service to both companies may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the Company and FOX. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between the Company and FOX regarding the terms of the agreements governing the indemnification of certain matters. In addition to any other arrangements that the Company and FOX may agree to implement, the Company and FOX agreed that





officers and directors who serve at both companies will recuse themselves from decisions where conflicts arise due to their positions at both companies.

The Company’s Amended and Restated By-laws acknowledge that the Company’s directors and officers, as well as certain of its stockholders, including K. Rupert Murdoch, certain members of his family and certain family trusts (so long as such persons continue to own, in the aggregate, 10% or more of the voting stock of each of the Company and FOX), each of which is referred to as a covered stockholder, are or may become stockholders, directors, officers, employees or agents of FOX and certain of its affiliates. The Company’s Amended and Restated By-laws further provide that any such overlapping person will not be liable to the Company, or to any of its stockholders, for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist because such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than certain types of restricted business opportunities set forth in the Company’s Amended and Restated By-laws) to FOX instead of the Company. This could result in an overlapping person submitting any corporate opportunities other than restricted business opportunities to FOX instead of the Company.

Certain Provisions of the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Restated By-laws and Delaware Law, the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stockholder Rights Agreement and the Ownership of the Company’s Common Stock by the Murdoch Family Trust May Discourage Takeovers, and the Concentration of Ownership Will Affect the Voting Results of Matters Submitted for Stockholder Approval.

The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control, or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company’s Board of Directors or certain stockholders holding a significant percentage of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock. In particular, the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws provide for, among other things:

•a dual class common equity capital structure;

•a prohibition on stockholders taking any action by written consent without a meeting;

•special stockholders’ meeting to be called only by the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors, or the holders of not less than 20% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock;

•the requirement that stockholders give the Company advance notice to nominate candidates for election to the Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting;

•the requirement of an affirmative vote of at least 65% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock to amend or repeal its by-laws;

•vacancies on the Board of Directors to be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;

•certain restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares; and

•the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, Preferred Stock and Series Common Stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine.

These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even in the case where a majority of the stockholders may consider such proposals, if effective, desirable.

In addition, in connection with the Separation, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights agreement, which it extended in June 2014, June 2015 and again in June 2018. Pursuant to the third amended and restated stockholder rights agreement, each outstanding share of the Company’s common stock has attached to it a right entitling its holder to purchase from the Company additional shares of its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock in the event that a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the then-outstanding Class B Common Stock without approval of the Company’s Board of Directors, subject to exceptions for persons beneficially owning 15% or more of the Company’s Class B Common Stock immediately following the Separation. The stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company’s voting common stock without the approval of its Board of Directors. The rights expire on June 18, 2021, except as otherwise provided in the rights agreement. Further, as a result of his ability to appoint certain members of the board of directors of the corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, which beneficially owns less than one percent of the Company’s outstanding Class A Common Stock and approximately 38.4% of the Company’s Class B Common Stock as of







