ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form10-Kin
evaluating the Company and its common stock. Any of the following risks, or other risks or uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or
financial condition, and could, in turn, impact the trading price of the Company’s common stock.

The Company’s Businesses Operate in a
Highly Competitive Business Environment, and the Company’s Success Depends on its Ability to Compete Effectively.

pay-TV

pay-TV

From time to time, the Company may pursue new strategic initiatives in order to remain competitive, such as its OTT strategy and its planned migration of
subscribers from cable to satellite or internet delivery at itspay-TVbusiness and its new concierge model for its U.S. digital real estate business. The Company may be required to incur significant capital
expenditures, marketing and other costs in order to implement these strategies, which may be dilutive to its earnings. There can be no assurance these initiatives will be successful in the manner or







time period the Company expects or that it will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits it expects such strategy to achieve. The failure to realize those benefits could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Company is targeting a different demographic with its new streaming services, which are offered at a lower price point than its
traditional broadcast subscription packages. However, if instead those streaming offerings cause broadcast subscribers to disconnect their services or downgrade to smaller, less expensive programming packages, the Company’s revenues may be
materially and adversely affected.

Some of the Company’s current and potential competitors may have greater resources, fewer regulatory burdens,
better competitive positions in certain areas, greater operating capabilities, greater access to sources of content or other services and/or easier access to financing, which may allow them to respond more effectively to changes in technology,
consumer preferences and market conditions. Continued consolidation among competitors in certain industries in which the Company’s businesses operate may increase these advantages, including through greater scale, financial leverage and/or
access to content and other offerings. If the Company is unable to compete successfully against existing or future competitors, its business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

The Company Must Respond to New Technologies and Changes in Consumer Behavior and Continue to Innovate and Provide Useful Products in Order to Remain
Competitive.

Technology continues to evolve rapidly, and the resulting changes in consumer behavior and preferences create constant opportunities for
new and existing competitors that can quickly render the Company’s products and services less valuable. For example, alternative methods for the delivery, storage and consumption of digital content, including the distribution of news and other
content through social networking tools and on mobile and other devices, often without charge, internet and mobile distribution of video content via streaming and downloading and digital distribution models for books, have empowered consumers to
seek more control over the convenience and price of content consumption. Enhanced internet capabilities and the development of new media channels may continue to reduce the demand for the Company’s newspapers, television programs and other
products and services and the price consumers are willing to pay for such products and services. Consumption of the Company’s content on new delivery platforms may also lead to loss of distribution and pricing control, loss of a direct
relationship with consumers and lower engagement and subscription rates. In addition, other technological developments, such as those allowing consumers to skip, fast forward through or block advertisements or otherwise time-shift viewing, may cause
changes in consumer behavior that adversely affect the attractiveness of the Company’s offerings to advertisers.

Technological developments have in
many cases also increased competition by significantly lowering barriers to entry. For example, content providers are now able to compete with ourpay-TVbusiness viadirect-to-consumerofferings, as internet streaming capabilities enabled the disaggregation of content delivery from the ownership of network infrastructure. Other digital platforms and technologies, such as
user-generated sites and self-publishing tools, have also reduced the effort and expense of producing and distributing content on a wide scale, allowing digital content providers, customers, suppliers and other third parties to compete with the
Company, often at a lower cost. This trend may drive down the price consumers are willing to spend on the Company’s products disproportionately to the costs associated with generating content. Additional digital distribution channels, such as
online retailers and digital marketplaces, have presented, and may continue to present, challenges to the Company’s business models, including its traditional book publishing model, which could adversely affect sales volume and/or pricing.

The Company must continue to acquire, develop, adopt, upgrade and exploit new and existing technologies to ensure its products and services remain relevant
and useful for consumers and customers, are delivered in the manner in which consumers and customers wish to consume them and are offered at competitive prices. The Company may be required to incur significant capital expenditures and other costs in
order to respond to new technologies, new and enhanced offerings from its competitors and changes in consumer behavior, and to attract







and retain employees with the necessary skill sets and knowledge base. For example, the Company has made, and expects to continue to makes investments and incur costs in itspay-TVbusiness as it continues to develop and improve its OTT services, including its recently-launched Kayo sports streaming service, Foxtel Now and other potential new OTT services. The development of new
technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process, and there is a risk the Company may not be able to develop and market these opportunities in a timely or cost-effective manner and its responses and strategies to remain
competitive, including new product offerings, may not be accepted by consumers or generate sufficient revenues to be profitable. The Company’s failure to respond to and develop new technologies, distribution channels and platforms, products and
services to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences could cause its customer, audience and/or user base or its advertisers to decline, in some cases precipitously, and could have a significant adverse effect
on its business, asset values, results of operations and financial condition.

A Decline in Customer Advertising Expenditures in the Company’s
Newspaper and Other Businesses Could Cause its Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly.

The Company derives substantial revenues from
the sale of advertising through its newspapers, integrated marketing services, digital media properties, cable channels and otherpay-TVprogramming and radio stations. The Company’s ability to generate
advertising revenue is dependent on a number of factors, including: (1) demand for the Company’s products and services, (2) audience fragmentation, (3) digital advertising trends, (4) its ability to offer advertising
products and formats sought by advertisers, (5) general economic and business conditions, (6) demographics of the customer base, (7) advertising rates and (8) advertising effectiveness.

Demand for the Company’s products and services depends upon the Company’s ability to differentiate those products and services and anticipate and
adapt to changes in consumer behaviors and is evaluated based on a variety of metrics. For example, circulation levels for the Company’s newspapers, ratings points for its cable channels and number of listeners for its radio stations are among
the factors advertisers consider when determining the amount of advertising to purchase from the Company as well as advertising rates. For the Company’s digital media properties, advertisers evaluate consumer demand using metrics such as the
number of visits, number of users and user engagement. Any difficulty or failure in accurately measuring demand, particularly demand generated through new platforms, may lead to under-measurement and, in turn, lower advertising pricing and spending.

The increasing popularity of digital media among consumers as a source of news and other content has
driven a corresponding shift in advertising from traditional channels to digital platforms. This shift has significantly impacted the Company’s print advertising revenues in particular, which have declined in each of its last three fiscal
years. The development of new devices and technologies, as well as higher consumer engagement with other forms of digital media such as online and mobile social networking, are increasing the number of media choices and formats available to
audiences, resulting in audience fragmentation and increased competition for advertising. The range of advertising choices across digital products and platforms and the large inventory of available digital advertising space have historically
resulted in significantly lower rates for digital advertising than for print advertising. In addition, in the past, rates have been generally lower for mobile advertising than for desktop advertising. As a result, increasing consumer reliance on
mobile devices may add additional pricing pressure. Consequently, the Company’s digital advertising revenue may not be able to replace print advertising revenue lost as a result of the shift to digital consumption.

The digital advertising market also continues to undergo significant changes that may further impact digital advertising revenues. Digital advertising
networks and exchanges, real-time bidding and other programmatic buying channels that allow advertisers to buy audiences at scale are playing a more significant role in the advertising marketplace and may cause further downward pricing pressure. New
delivery platforms may also lead to loss of distribution and pricing control and loss of a direct relationship with consumers. In addition, evolving standards for the delivery of digital advertising, as well as the development and implementation of
technology and policies that adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver, target or measure the effectiveness







of its advertising such as blocking, changing the location of, or obscuring, the display of advertising on websites and mobile devices and/or blocking or deleting cookies, may also negatively
impact digital advertising revenues. As the digital advertising market continues to evolve, the Company’s ability to compete successfully for advertising budgets will depend on, among other things, its ability to drive scale, engage and grow
digital audiences, collect and leverage better user data, develop new digital advertising products and formats such as branded and other custom content, and video and mobile advertising, and prove the value of its advertising and the effectiveness
of the Company’s platforms to its advertising customers, including through more targeted, data-driven offerings. In recent years, large digital platforms such as Facebook, Google and Amazon, which have extensive audience reach and targeting
capabilities, have commanded an increasing share of the digital advertising market, and the Company expects this trend may continue.

The Company’s
print and digital advertising revenue is also affected generally by overall national and local economic and business conditions, including consumer spending, housing sales, auto sales, unemployment rates and job creation, advertisers’ budgeting
and buying patterns, which tend to be cyclical, as well as federal, state and local election cycles. In addition, certain sectors of the economy account for a significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues, including retail,
technology and finance. Some of these sectors, such as retail, are more susceptible to weakness in economic conditions and have also been under pressure from increased online competition. A decline in the economic prospects of these and other
advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities or result in consolidation or closures across various industries, which may also reduce the Company’s overall advertising revenue.

While the Company has adopted a number of strategies and initiatives to address these challenges, there can be no guarantee that its efforts will be
successful. If the Company is unable to demonstrate the continuing value of its various platforms and high-quality content and brands or offer advertisers unique multi-platform advertising programs, its results may suffer. Reduced demand for the
Company’s offerings, a decrease in advertising expenditures by the Company’s customers or a surplus of advertising inventory could lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the
Company’s businesses and assets, results of operations and financial condition.

The Inability to Obtain and Retain Sports, Entertainment and
Other Programming Rights and Content Could Adversely Affect the Revenue of Certain of the Company’s Operating Businesses, and Costs Could Also Increase Upon Renewal.

pay-TV

pay-TV

pay-TV

pay-TV







access to certain content. For example, professional sports leagues or teams, as well as programmers and distributors such as CBS and Disney, have created and may continue to create their owndirect-to-consumerofferings. Further, consolidation among content providers may increase the amount of content that could become unavailable to the Company. The loss of
rights may adversely affect the breadth or quality of the Company’s content offerings, including the extent of the sports coverage and the availability of other popular entertainment programming offered by the Company and lead to customer or
audience dissatisfaction or, in some cases, loss of customers or audiences, which could, in turn, adversely affect its revenues. In addition, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if
upon renewal, escalations in programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in subscriber and carriage fees and advertising rates.

The Company
Has Made and May Continue to Make Strategic Acquisitions, Investments and Divestitures That Introduce Significant Risks and Uncertainties.

non-cash

In addition, the Company has divested
and may in the future divest certain assets or businesses that no longer fit with its strategic direction or growth targets. Divestitures involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of
operations and financial condition. These include, among others, the inability to find potential buyers on favorable terms, disruption to its business and/or diversion of management attention from other business concerns, loss of key employees,
difficulties in separating the operations of the divested business and possible retention of certain liabilities related to the divested business.

Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Results of Operations.

The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its consolidated debt when the debt is denominated in a currency other than the
functional currency of the operations whose cash flows support the ability to repay or refinance such debt. As of June 30, 2019, the Foxtel operating subsidiaries, whose functional currency is Australian dollars, had approximately
$575 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company’s policy is to hedge against the risk of foreign currency exchange rate movements with respect to this exposure where commercially
reasonable. However, there can be no assurance that it will be able to continue to do so at a reasonable cost or at all, or that there will not be a default by any of the counterparties to those arrangements.

In addition, the Company is exposed to foreign currency translation risk because it has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and
certain of its operations are conducted in currencies other than the Company’s reporting currency, primarily the Australian dollar and the British pound sterling. Since the







Company’s financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, a
currency translation impact on the Company’s earnings when the results of those operations that are reported in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars for inclusion in the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which
could, in turn, have an adverse effect on its reported results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. In particular, exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the British pound sterling are expected to remain volatile due to
continued political uncertainty in the U.K. and the negotiation of its exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit.”

Weak
Domestic and Global Economic Conditions and Volatility and Disruption in the Financial and Other Markets May Adversely Affect the Company’s Business.

In addition, further volatility and disruption in the financial markets could make it more difficult and expensive for the Company to obtain financing or
refinance its existing indebtedness. These conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom the Company does business to satisfy their obligations to the Company, including as a result of their inability to obtain capital on acceptable
terms. Although the Company believes that its capitalization, operating cash flow and current access to credit and capital markets, including the Company’s revolving credit facility, will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for the
foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that any further volatility and disruption in domestic and global credit and capital markets will not impair the Company’s liquidity or increase its cost of borrowing.

The Company Relies on Network and Information Systems and Other Technology Whose Failure or Misuse Could Cause a Disruption of Services or Loss, Improper
Access to or Disclosure of Personal Data, Business Information, Including Intellectual Property, or Other Confidential Information, Resulting in Increased Costs, Loss of Revenue, Reputational Damage or Other Harm to the Company’s Business.

Network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to the Company’s network management, are important to its
business activities and contain the Company’s proprietary, confidential and













The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges.

non-cash

non-cash

There Can Be No Assurance That the Company Will Have Access to the Credit and Capital Markets on Terms Acceptable to It, and the Significant Leverage of
its Foxtel Operating Subsidiaries Could Limit the Ability of Those Subsidiaries to Access the Credit and Capital Markets and Have Other Adverse Effects.







The Company’s Business Could Be Adversely Impacted by
Changes in Governmental Policy and Regulation.

Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions
around the world, and the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed, and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries, could
have a negative impact on its interests. In addition, laws and regulations in some international jurisdictions differ from those in the United States, and the enforcement of those laws and regulations may be inconsistent and unpredictable. The
Company may incur substantial costs or be required to change its business practices in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations and could incur substantial penalties or other liabilities in the event of any failure to comply.

The Company’s Australian operating businesses may be adversely affected by changes in government policy, regulation or legislation, or the application or
enforcement thereof, applying to companies in the Australian media industry or to Australian companies in general. This includes:



•anti-siphoning legislation which currently preventspay-TVproviders such
as Foxtel from acquiring rights to televise certain listed events (for example, the Olympic Games and certain Australian Rules football and cricket matches) unless:



–national or commercial television broadcasters have not obtained these rights 26 weeks before the start of the
event;



–the rights are held by commercial television licensees whose television broadcasting services cover more than
50% of the Australian population; or



–the rights are held by one of Australia’s two major government-funded broadcasters;



•other parts of the Broadcasting Services Act that regulate ownership interests and control of Australian media
organizations. Such legislation may have an impact on the Company’s ownership structure and operations and may restrict its ability to take advantage of acquisition or investment opportunities; and



•the Telecommunications Act and associated Codes, which apply various consumer protection regimes to Foxtel as a
telecommunications service provider.

The Company’s business activities are also subject to various laws and regulations in the
United States and internationally governing the collection, use, sharing, protection and retention of personal data, which have







non-compliance,

In addition, the Company’s newspaper publishing businesses in the U.K. are subject to greater regulation and oversight as a
result of the implementation of recommendations of the Leveson inquiry into the U.K. press. Following the inquiry, the U.K. Government established a Press Recognition Panel responsible for approving and monitoring a new press regulatory body.
Publishers who are not members of an approved regulator, including the Company, may be subject to exemplary damages in privacy and libel cases and, if Section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 is enacted, the payment of costs for both parties
in libel actions in certain circumstances. The majority of the U.K. press, including News UK, has established an alternative regulator, the Independent Press Standards Organisation, or IPSO. IPSO, which has indicated that it does not intend to seek
approval by the Press Recognition Panel, has powers to impose burdens on its print media members in the U.K. These powers, which include the ability to impose fines of up to £1 million for systemic breaches of IPSO’s Editor’s
Code of Practice, may result in competitive disadvantages versus other forms of media and may increase the costs of regulatory compliance.

The
Company’s radio stations in the U.K. and Ireland are also subject to governmental regulation by the relevant broadcast authorities as the Company is required to obtain and maintain licenses from such authorities to operate these stations.
Although the Company expects its licenses will, where relevant, be renewed in the ordinary course upon their expiration, there can be no assurance that this will be the case.Non-complianceby the Company with
the requirements associated with such licenses or other applicable laws and regulations, including of the relevant authority, could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other adverse regulatory actions.

Adverse Results from Litigation or Other Proceedings Could Impact the Company’s Business Practices and Operating Results.

From time to time, the Company is party to litigation, as well as to regulatory and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative
agencies, including with respect to antitrust, tax, data privacy and security, intellectual property, employment and other matters. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 16 to the Financial Statements for a discussion of certain
matters. The outcome of these matters and other litigation and proceedings is subject to significant uncertainty, and it is possible that an adverse resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm and/or significant
monetary damages, injunctive relief or settlement costs that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition as well as the Company’s ability to conduct its business as it is presently being conducted. In
addition, regardless of merit or outcome, such proceedings can have an adverse impact on the Company as a result of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel, and other factors.







The Company Could Be Subject to Significant Additional Tax Liabilities, which Could Adversely Affect its
Operating Results and Financial Condition.

The Company is subject to taxation in U.S. federal, state and local jurisdictions and variousnon-U.S.jurisdictions, including Australia and the U.K. The Company’s effective tax rate is impacted by the tax laws, regulations, practices and interpretations in the jurisdictions in which it operates and
may fluctuate significantly from period to period depending on, among other things, the geographic mix of the Company’s profits and losses, changes in tax laws and regulations or their application and interpretation, the outcome of tax audits
and changes in valuation allowances associated with the Company’s deferred tax assets. Evaluating and estimating the Company’s tax provision, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and other tax accruals requires significant
management judgment, and there are often transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.

The Company’s tax returns are routinely
audited by various tax authorities. Tax authorities may not agree with the treatment of items reported in the Company’s tax returns or positions taken by the Company, and as a result,tax-relatedsettlements or litigation may occur, resulting in additional income tax liabilities against the Company. Although the Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of tax reviews and examinations and any related litigation,
the final outcomes of these matters could differ materially from the amounts recorded in the Financial Statements. As a result, the Company may be required to recognize additional charges in its Statements of Operations and pay significant
additional amounts with respect to current or prior periods, or its taxes in the future could increase, which could adversely affect its operating results and financial condition.

tax-free

tax-related

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Tax Act instituted
significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including, among other things, lowering the corporate tax rate, implementing a partial territorial tax system and, beginning in fiscal 2019, implementing changes to limits on the deductions
for executive compensation, a tax on global intangiblelow-taxedincome, the base erosion anti-abuse tax and a deduction for foreign-derived intangible income. While the Company’s accounting for the
effects of the Tax Act was completed in the second







quarter of fiscal 2019 and the Company believes those effects have been appropriately recorded, various interpretive issues remain with respect to the Tax Act and regulatory guidance on many
aspects of the Tax Act has not been issued. The Company continues to monitor, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action arising because of the Tax Act and any changes in accounting standards for income
taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act. The Company cannot predict the manner in which provisions of the Tax Act or any related regulations, legislation or accounting standards may be interpreted or enforced in the future or
whether such interpretation or enforcement may have a material adverse effect on its income tax expense and/or its business, results of operations and financial condition. See Note 19 to the Financial Statements for more information regarding the
impact of the Tax Act.

On May 31, 2019, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development released a program of work to develop a consensus
solution in relation to its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Action 1, Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digitalization of the Economy. The outcome of this program may change various aspects of the existing framework under which the
Company’s tax obligations are determined in countries in which it does business. In connection with the release of the program, several foreign jurisdictions introduced new digital services taxes on revenue of companies that
provide certain digital services. There is limited guidance about the applicability of these new taxes to the Company’s businesses and significant uncertainty as to what type of digital services will be deemed in scope. If these new taxes are
applied to the Company’s revenue in these foreign jurisdictions, which include the U.K., it could have an adverse impact on its business and financial performance.

Theft of the Company’s Content, including Digital Piracy and Signal Theft, may Decrease Revenue and Adversely Affect the Company’s Business and
Profitability.

The Company’sPay-TVBusiness Depends on a Single or Limited Number of Suppliers for Certain Key Products or
Services,and Any Reduction or Interruption in the Supply of These Products and Services or a Significant Increase in Price Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial
Condition.

The Company’spay-TVbusiness depends on a single or limited number of third party suppliers
to supply certain key products and services necessary to provide itspay-TVservices. In particular, the Company depends on Optus







to provide all of its satellite transponder capacity, and ARRIS and Technicolor are the Company’s sole suppliers of satelliteset-topboxes and the
Foxtel Now box, respectively. If any of these suppliers breaches or terminates their agreements with the Company or otherwise fails to perform their obligations in a timely manner, experiences operating or financial difficulties, is unable to meet
demand due to component shortages, insufficient capacity or otherwise, significantly increases the amount the Company pays for necessary products or services or ceases production of any necessary product, the Company’s business, results of
operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.

In addition, Telstra is the primary supplier of cable distribution capacity for the
Company’spay-TVprogramming and is also currently the exclusive provider of wholesale fixed voice and broadband services for the Company’spay-TVbusiness, as
well as its primary supplier of wholesale mobile voice and broadband services and the largest reseller of its cable and satellite products. Any disruption in the supply of those services or a decline in Telstra’s business could result in
disruptions to the supply of, and/or reduce the number of subscribers for, the Company’s products and services, which could, in turn, adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.

While the Company will seek alternative sources for the products and services described above where possible and/or permissible under applicable agreements,
it may not be able to develop these alternative sources quickly and cost-effectively, which could impair its ability to timely deliver its products and services to its subscribers or operate its business.

The Company’s International Operations Expose it to Additional Risks that Could Adversely Affect its Business, Operating Results and Financial
Condition.

The Company is Party to Agreements with Third Parties
Relating to Certain of its Businesses That Contain Operational and Management Restrictions and/or Other Rights That, Depending on the Circumstances, May Not be in the Best Interest of the Company.

The Company is party to agreements with third parties relating to certain of its businesses that restrict the Company’s ability to take specified actions
and contain other rights that, depending on the circumstances, may not be in the best interest of the Company. For example, the Company and Telstra are parties to a Shareholders’ Agreement with respect to Foxtel containing certain minority
protections for Telstra, including standard governance provisions, as well as transfer and exit rights. The Shareholders’ Agreement provides Telstra with the right to appoint two directors to the Board of Foxtel, as well as Board and
shareholder-level veto rights over certainnon-ordinarycourse and/or material corporate actions that may prevent Foxtel from taking actions that are in the interests of the Company. The Shareholders’
Agreement also provides for (1) certain transfer







restrictions, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to effect such transfers and/or the prices at which those transfers may occur, and (2) exit arrangements, which could,
in certain circumstances, force the Company to sell its interest, subject to rights of first and, in some cases, last refusals.

In addition, Move, the
Company’s digital real estate services business in the U.S., operates the realtor.com®website under an agreement with NAR that is perpetual in duration. However, NAR may terminate the
operating agreement for certain contractually-specified reasons upon expiration of applicable cure periods. If the operating agreement with NAR is terminated, the NAR License would also terminate, and Move would be required to transfer a copy of the
software that operates the realtor.com®website to NAR and provide NAR with copies of its agreements with advertisers and data content providers. NAR would then be able to operate a
realtor.com®website, either by itself or with another third party.

Failure by the Company to
Protect Certain Intellectual Property and Brands, or Infringement Claims by Third Parties, Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Business, Results of Operation and Financial Condition.

set-top

Newsprint Prices May
Continue to Be Volatile and Difficult to Predict and Control, and any Increase in Newsprint Costs or Disruption in Newsprint Supply may Adversely Affect the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

Newsprint is a significant expense for the Company’s newspaper publishing units. The price of newsprint has historically been volatile, and a number of
factors may cause prices to increase, including: (1) the closure and consolidation of newsprint mills or the conversion of newsprint mills to other products or grades of paper, which has reduced the number of newsprint suppliers over the years;
(2) the imposition of tariffs or other restrictions onnon-U.S.suppliers of paper; (3) an increase in supplier operating expenses due to rising raw material or energy costs or other factors;
(4) failure to maintain the Company’s current consumption levels; and (5) the inability to maintain the Company’s existing relationships with its newsprint suppliers. Any increase in the cost of newsprint, undersupply or supply
chain disruption could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.







Damage, Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Transmitter Facilities that the Company’sPay-TVBusiness Depends Upon to Distribute its Programming Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.

pay-TV

on-ground

The Company is Subject to Payment Processing Risk Which Could Lead to Adverse Effects on the Company’s Business and Results of Operations.

The Company’s customers pay for its products and services using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, prepaid cards,
direct debit, online wallets and through direct carrier and partner billing. The Company relies on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. Acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules
and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. To the extent there are increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, delays in receiving payments from payment processors, any failures to comply
with, or changes to, rules or regulations concerning payment processing, loss of payment or billing partners and/or disruptions or failures in, or fraudulent use of or access to, payment processing systems or payment products, the Company’s
results of operations could be adversely impacted and it could suffer reputational harm. Furthermore, if the Company is unable to maintain its chargeback rate at acceptable levels, card networks may impose fines and its card approval rate may be
impacted. The termination of the Company’s ability to process payments on any major payment method would adversely affect its business and results of operations.

Labor Disputes May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business.

In a variety of the Company’s businesses, it engages the services of employees who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company is
unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining
agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins.

The Market Price of the Company’s Stock May Fluctuate Significantly.

The Company cannot predict the prices at which its common stock may trade. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly,
depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond its control, including: (1) the Company’s quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in its industry; (2) actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s
operating results; (3) success or failure of the Company’s business strategy; (4) the Company’s ability to obtain financing as needed; (5) changes in accounting







standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (6) changes in laws and regulations affecting the Company’s business; (7) announcements by the Company or its
competitors of significant new business developments or customers; (8) announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; (9) changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or the
Company’s ability to meet its earnings guidance, if any; (10) the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; (11) investor perception of the Company and the industries in which it operates; (12) results
from material litigation or governmental investigations; (13) changes in capital gains taxes and taxes on dividends affecting stockholders; and (14) overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions.

Certain of the Company’s Directors and Officers May Have Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest Because of Their Equity Ownership in Fox
Corporation (“FOX”), and/or Because They Also Serve as Officers and/or on the Board of Directors of FOX, Which May Result in the Diversion of Certain Corporate Opportunities to FOX.

Certain of the Company’s directors and executive officers own shares of FOX’s common stock, and the individual holdings may be significant for some
of these individuals compared to their total assets. In addition, certain of the Company’s officers and directors also serve as officers and/or as directors of FOX, including K. Rupert Murdoch, who serves as the Company’s Executive
Chairman andCo-Chairmanof FOX, and Lachlan K. Murdoch, who serves as the Company’sCo-Chairmanand Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of FOX. This ownership or
service to both companies may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the Company and FOX. For example, potential conflicts
of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between the Company and FOX regarding the terms of the agreements governing the indemnification of certain matters. In addition to any other arrangements that
the Company and FOX may agree to implement, the Company and FOX agreed that officers and directors who serve at both companies will recuse themselves from decisions where conflicts arise due to their positions at both companies.

The Company’s Amended and RestatedBy-lawsacknowledge that the Company’s directors and officers, as well as
certain of its stockholders, including K. Rupert Murdoch, certain members of his family and certain family trusts (so long as such persons continue to own, in the aggregate, 10% or more of the voting stock of each of the Company and FOX), each of
which is referred to as a covered stockholder, are or may become stockholders, directors, officers, employees or agents of FOX and certain of its affiliates. The Company’s Amended and RestatedBy-lawsfurther provide that any such overlapping person will not be liable to the Company, or to any of its stockholders, for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist because such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than
certain types of restricted business opportunities set forth in the Company’s Amended and RestatedBy-laws)to FOX instead of the Company. This could result in an overlapping person submitting any
corporate opportunities other than restricted business opportunities to FOX instead of the Company.

Certain Provisions of the Company’s Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and RestatedBy-lawsand Delaware Law, the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stockholder Rights Agreement and the Ownership of the Company’s Common Stock by
the Murdoch Family Trust May Discourage Takeovers, and the Concentration of Ownership Will Affect the Voting Results of Matters Submitted for Stockholder Approval.

The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and RestatedBy-lawscontain certain
anti-takeover provisions that may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control, or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company’s Board of Directors or certain stockholders holding a significant percentage of the voting
power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock. In particular, the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and RestatedBy-lawsprovide for, among other things:



•a dual class common equity capital structure;



•a prohibition on stockholders taking any action by written consent without a meeting;







•special stockholders’ meeting to be called only by the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors, or
the holders of not less than 20% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock;



•the requirement that stockholders give the Company advance notice to nominate candidates for election to the
Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting;



•the requirement of an affirmative vote of at least 65% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding
voting stock to amend or repeal itsby-laws;



•vacancies on the Board of Directors to be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;



•certain restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares; and



•the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, Preferred Stock and Series Common Stock with such
terms as the Board of Directors may determine.

These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or
prevent a change in control of the Company, even in the case where a majority of the stockholders may consider such proposals, if effective, desirable.

