10-K


y13050e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

10-K


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Commission file no. 1-6686

THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Delaware

13-1024020

(State of Incorporation)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036

(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)

(212) 704-1200

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, $0.10 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, no par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the filing requirements for at least the past 90 days.

Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes

o

No

þ

As of June 30, 2005, the aggregate market value of the
shares of the registrant’s common stock held by
non-affiliates was $5,201,493,786. The number of shares of the
registrant’s common stock outstanding as of August 31,
2005 was 427,268,023.



STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING DISCLOSURE

This report contains forward-looking statements. We may also
make forward-looking statements orally from time to time.
Statements in this report that are not historical facts,
including statements about management’s beliefs and
expectations, particularly regarding recent business and
economic trends, our internal control over financial reporting,
impairment charges, the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) investigation, credit ratings, regulatory and
legal developments, acquisitions and dispositions, constitute
forward-looking statements. These statements are based on
current plans, estimates and projections, and are subject to
change based on a number of factors, including those outlined in
this report under Item 1, Business — Risk
Factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date
they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly
any of them in light of new information or future events.

Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and
uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual
results to differ materially from those contained in any
forward-looking statement. Such risk factors include, but are
not limited to, the following:

Investors should carefully consider these risk factors and the
additional risk factors outlined in more detail in Item 1,
Business — Risk Factors, in this report.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Information regarding our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, will be made
available, free of charge, at our website at
http://www.interpublic.com, as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them
to, the SEC. Any document that we file with the SEC may also be
read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located
at Room 1580, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on
the public reference room. Our filings are also available to the
public from the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, and at
the offices of the New York Stock Exchange. For further
information on obtaining copies of our public filings at the New
York Stock Exchange, please call (212) 656-5060.

ii


Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct and each of
the charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and
the Corporate Governance Committee are available free of charge
on our website at http://www.interpublic.com, or by writing to
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 1114 Avenue of the
Americas, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Secretary.

EXPLANATORY NOTE

The filing of this report for 2004 was delayed because of the
extensive additional work necessary to compensate for material
weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and
to complete a restatement of our previously issued Consolidated
Financial Statements. The material weaknesses in our internal
control over financial reporting are described in Item 8,
Management’s Assessment on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting, and Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. All our
Consolidated Financial Statements and other financial
information included in this report for dates and periods
through the third quarter of 2004 have been restated. These
Consolidated Financial Statements and financial information have
been restated to reflect adjustments to our previously reported
financial information for the years ended December 31,
2003, 2002, 2001, and 2000. Our 2004 and 2003 quarterly
financial information also has been restated to reflect
adjustments to our previously reported financial information for
the quarters ended March 31, June 30, and
September 30 of those years. The restatement also affects
periods prior to 2000, which is reflected as an adjustment to
opening retained earnings as of January 1, 2000.

We have not amended any of our previously filed reports. The
Consolidated Financial Statements and other financial
information in our previously filed reports for the dates and
periods referred to above should no longer be relied upon.

The broad areas of restatement adjustments primarily relate to
errors in the accounting for acquisitions, revenue, leases, and
the results of internal investigations into employee misconduct,
as well as the impact of other miscellaneous adjustments.

The following sections of this report contain
restatement-related disclosures:

iii


PART I

Item 1.

Business

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. was incorporated in
Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson
Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency
businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by
Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the
Interpublic name since January 1961.

Our Client Offerings

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
“Company”, “we”, “us” or
“our”) is one of the world’s largest advertising
and marketing services companies, comprised of hundreds of
communication agencies around the world that deliver custom
marketing solutions on behalf of our clients. Our agencies cover
the spectrum of marketing disciplines and specialties, from
traditional services such as consumer advertising and direct
marketing, to services such as experiential marketing and
branded entertainment. With offices in approximately 130
countries and approximately 43,700 employees, our agencies work
with our clients to create global and local marketing campaigns
that cross borders and media. These marketing programs seek to
build brands, influence consumer behavior and sell products.

To meet the challenge of an increasingly complex consumer
culture, we create customized marketing solutions for each of
our clients. Engagements between clients and agencies fall into
five basic categories:

Single discipline model

— This model allows
clients to have an ongoing relationship with one best-in-class
marketing specialist. In this traditional client-agency model,
one agency provides service in a single discipline.

Project collaboration model

— Many of our
clients have ongoing relationships with only one of our
agencies, which specializes in one marketing discipline.
However, when the client has a need that requires additional
expertise, the agency can turn to an affiliated company for an
expansion of capabilities.

Integrated agency-of-record model

— Within our
agency groups, there are approximately twenty full-service
marketing agencies. These agencies offer multidisciplinary
solutions for their clients, including advertising, direct
marketing, interactive services, public relations, promotions
and other specialties, under one roof.

Lead company model

— For clients needing
world-class expertise across global markets in many marketing
disciplines, we offer this solution in which one lead agency
manages the work of multiple partner agencies on an on-going
basis.

Virtual network model

— To capitalize on the
fullest range of the marketing spectrum that we have to offer,
clients can formalize a relationship at the holding company
level. A channel-neutral team becomes the client’s brand
steward and coordinates the work of multiple agencies from
within our agency groups.

While our agencies work on behalf of our clients using one of
these models, we provide resources and support to ensure that
our agencies can best meet our clients’ needs. Based in New
York City, the holding company sets company-wide financial
objectives, directs collaborative inter-agency programs,
establishes fiscal management and operational controls, guides
personnel policy, conducts investor relations and initiates,
manages and approves mergers and acquisitions. In addition, it
provides limited centralized functional services that offer our
companies some operational efficiencies, including accounting
and finance, marketing information retrieval and analysis, legal
services, real estate expertise, recruitment aid, employee
benefits and executive compensation management.



Our Disciplines and Agencies

We have hundreds of specialized agencies. The following is a
sample of some of our brands.

Our

global networks

offer our largest clients a full
range of marketing and communications services. Combined, their
footprint spans approximately 130 countries:

•

McCann Erickson Worldwide

•

Foote Cone & Belding Worldwide

•

Lowe Worldwide

We have many

full-service marketing agencies

whose
distinctive resources provide clients with multi-disciplinary
communication services:

We also have many

domestic advertising agencies

that
provide North American clients with traditional services in
print and broadcast media:

Our

direct marketing

agencies deliver one-to-one
marketing that communicates directly with consumers in relevant
and innovative ways:

•

Draft Worldwide

•

MRM Partners Worldwide

•

The Hacker Group

Our

interactive agencies

seek to provide best-in-class
digital marketing solutions for many of our largest clients:

•

R/ GA

•

FCBi

•

Zentropy



We have a worldwide leader in

experiential marketing,

Jack Morton Worldwide, as part of our agency group. Jack Morton
creates interactive experiences whose goal is to improve
performance, increase sales and build brand recognition. The
agency produces meetings and events, environmental design,
exhibits, digital media and learning programs.

Our

media offering

takes advantage of changes in
today’s fragmented media landscape, with capabilities in
planning, research, negotiating, product placement and
programming:

•

Initiative

•

MAGNA Global

•

Universal McCann

To help activate consumer demand, our

promotion agencies

offer clients a range of options, including sweepstakes,
incentive programs, sampling opportunities and trade programming:

Our

public relations

agencies offer such worldwide
services as consumer PR, corporate communications, crisis
management, web relations and investor relations:

We also have

special marketing services agencies

that we
believe are best-in-class for their niche markets:

Our

sports and entertainment marketing

firms manage top
athletes and sporting events and represent some of the
world’s most-recognized celebrities:



Our affiliated

multicultural agency partners,

in which we
own a minority interest, target specific demographic segments:

We have organized our agencies into five global operating
divisions and a group of leading stand-alone agencies. Four of
these divisions, McCann WorldGroup(“McCann”), The FCB
Group (“FCB”), The Lowe Group (“Lowe”) and
Draft Worldwide (“Draft”), provide a distinct
comprehensive array of global communications and marketing
services. The fifth global operating division, The Constituent
Management Group (“CMG”), including Weber Shandwick,
FutureBrand, DeVries Public Relations, Golin Harris, Jack Morton
and Octagon Worldwide (“Octagon”), provides clients
with diversified services, including public relations, meeting
and event production, sports and entertainment marketing,
corporate and brand identity and strategic marketing consulting.

Our leading stand-alone agencies provide clients with a full
range of advertising and marketing services. These agencies
partner with our global operating groups as needed, and include
Deutsch, Campbell-Ewald, Hill Holliday and The Martin Agency. We
believe this organizational structure allows us to provide
comprehensive solutions for clients, enables stronger financial
and operational growth opportunities and allows us to improve
operating efficiencies within our organization. We practice a
decentralized management style, providing agency management with
a great deal of operational autonomy, while holding them broadly
responsible for their agencies’ financial and operational
performance.

Our Financial Reporting Segments

For financial reporting purposes, we have three reporting
segments. The largest segment, Integrated Agency Networks
(“IAN”), is comprised of McCann, FCB, Lowe, Draft and
our leading stand-alone agencies. CMG comprises our second
reporting segment. Our third reporting segment was comprised of
our Motorsports operations, which were sold during 2004. IAN
also includes our media agencies, Initiative Media and Magna
Global which are part of our leading stand-alone agencies, and
Universal McCann which is part of McCann. Our media offering
creates integrated communications solutions, with services that
cover the full spectrum of communication needs, including
channel strategy, planning and buying, consulting, production,
and post-campaign analysis. See Note 18 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further discussion.

Principal Markets

Our agencies are located in approximately 130 countries and in
every significant market. We provide services for clients whose
businesses are broadly international in scope, as well as for
clients whose businesses are limited to a single country or a
small number of countries. Based on revenue for the year ended
December 31, 2004, our five principal markets are the US,
Europe (excluding the United Kingdom (“UK”), the UK,
Asia Pacific and Latin America, which represented 54.9%, 19.2%,
10.3%, 7.5% and 3.8% of our total revenue, respectively. For
information concerning revenues and long-lived assets on a
geographical basis for each of the last three years, see
Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sources of Revenue

We generate revenue from fees and commissions. Our primary
sources of revenue are the planning and execution of advertising
programs in various media and the planning and execution of
other marketing



and communications programs. The fee and commission amounts vary
depending on the level of client spending or the time we incur
performing the specific services required by a client plus the
reimbursement of other costs.

Historically, revenues for creation, planning and placement of
advertising were derived predominantly from commissions. These
services are now being provided on a negotiated fee basis and to
a lesser extent on a commission basis. Fees are usually
calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead
and a mark-up. Many clients are now including an incentive
compensation component in their total compensation package. This
provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed upon
metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned
based on services provided, and are usually based as a
percentage or fee over the total cost and expense to complete
the assignment. They can also be derived when clients pay us the
gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net
rate. The difference is the commission that is earned by us,
which is either retained in total or shared with the client
depending on the nature of the services agreement.

We pay the media charges with respect to contracts for
advertising time or space that we place on behalf of our
clients. To reduce our risk from a client’s non-payment, we
generally pay media charges only after we have received funds
from our clients. Generally, we act as the client’s agent
rather than the primary obligor. In some instances we agree with
the media provider that we will only be liable to pay the media
after the client has paid us for the media charges.

We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public
relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and
entertainment marketing and corporate and brand identity
services.

Our revenue is dependent upon the advertising, marketing and
corporate communications requirements of our clients and tends
to be higher in the second half of the calendar year as a result
of the holiday season and lower in the first half as a result of
the post-holiday slow-down of client activity. Our agencies
generally have written contracts with their clients which
dictate proportional performance, monthly basis or completed
contract revenue recognition. Fee revenue recognized on a
completed contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal
revenues experienced in the fourth quarter due to the majority
of our contracts ending at December 31. As is customary in
the industry, these contracts provide for termination by either
party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days. See
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
discussion of our revenue recognition accounting policies.

Clients

In the aggregate, our top ten clients that made the largest
revenue contribution accounted for approximately 23.5% and 22.7%
of revenue in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Based on revenue for
the year ended December 31, 2004, our largest clients were
General Motors Corporation, Johnson & Johnson,
L’Oreal, Microsoft and Unilever. While the loss of the
entire business of any one of our largest clients might have a
material adverse effect upon our business, we believe that it is
very unlikely that the entire business of any of these clients
would be lost at the same time. This is because we represent
several different brands or divisions of each of these clients
in a number of geographic markets, in each case through more
than one of our agency systems. Representation of a client
rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or
product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any
client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to a
competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget
at any time.

Personnel

As of December 31, 2004, we employed approximately 43,700
persons, of whom 18,400 were employed in the US. Because of the
personal service character of the advertising and marketing
communications business, the quality of personnel is of crucial
importance to our continuing success. There is keen competition
for qualified employees.



Risk Factors

We are subject to a variety of possible risks that could
adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or
financial condition. Some of these risks relate to the industry
in which we operate, while others are more specific to us. The
following factors set out potential risks we have identified
that could adversely affect us. See also Statement Regarding
Forward-Looking Disclosure.

•

We have restated our previously issued financial
    statements.

As a result of the restatement presented in this annual report,
we have recorded liabilities for vendor discounts and other
obligations that will necessitate cash settlement which may
negatively impact our cash flow in future years. We may also
become subject to additional scrutiny in our ongoing SEC
investigation or new regulatory actions or civil litigation that
could require us to pay fines or other penalties or damages. In
addition, we may become subject to further ratings downgrades
and negative publicity and may lose or fail to attract and
retain key clients, employees and management personnel as a
result of these matters.

•

We have numerous material weaknesses in our internal
    control over financial reporting.

As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, management has conducted an assessment of our internal
control over financial reporting. In performing our assessment
we identified numerous material weaknesses in our internal
control over financial reporting and management has assessed
that our internal control over financial reporting was not
effective as of December 31, 2004. For a detailed
description of these material weaknesses, see Item 8,
Management’s Assessment on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting. It is possible had we been able to complete our
assessment that additional material weaknesses may have been
identified. Each of our material weaknesses results in more than
a remote likelihood that a material misstatement will not be
prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive
additional work to obtain assurance regarding the reliability of
our financial statements. Even with this additional work, given
the extensive material weakness identified, there is a risk of
additional errors not being prevented or detected which could
result in additional restatements.

•

We have extensive work remaining to remedy the material
    weaknesses in our internal control over financial
    reporting.

Because of our decentralized structure and our many disparate
accounting systems of varying quality and sophistication, we
have extensive work remaining to remedy our material weaknesses
in internal control over financial reporting. We are in the
process of developing and implementing a full work plan for
remedying all of the identified material weaknesses and we
expect that this work will extend into the 2006 fiscal year and
possibly beyond. There can be no assurance as to when the
remediation plan will be fully completed and when it will be
implemented. Until our remedial efforts are completed, we will
continue to incur the expenses and management burdens associated
with the manual procedures and additional resources required to
prepare our consolidated financial statements. There will also
continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to
timely file future periodic reports with the SEC, that a default
under the indentures governing our default securities could
occur and that our future financial statements could contain
errors that will be undetected.

•

Until our auditor can provide us with an opinion on
    management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our
    internal control over financial reporting, we will continue to
    suffer certain adverse consequences under the federal securities
    laws.

The report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”), our
independent registered public accounting firm, on our internal
control over financial reporting disclaims an opinion on
management’s assessment of our internal control over
financial reporting. See Item 8, Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm.

As a result of this disclaimer received from PwC, the SEC staff
considers our SEC filings not to be current for purposes of
certain of the SEC’s rules. We are unable to use
“short-form” registration (registration that allows us
to incorporate by reference our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q
and other SEC reports into our registration statements) or, for
most purposes, shelf registration, until twelve complete months



have passed after we file an annual report or amended annual
report containing an audit report on internal control over
financial reporting that does not disclaim an opinion.

In addition, any holder of restricted securities within the
meaning of Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the “Securities Act”), who is our
“affiliate” for purposes of the US securities laws
will be unable to sell such securities in reliance on
Rule 144, unless such holder obtains no-action relief from
the SEC.

Likewise, until we file an annual report or amended annual
report containing an audit report on internal control over
financial reporting that does not disclaim an opinion on our
assessment or on the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting, we are ineligible to use Form S-8. We
use Form S-8 to register grants of equity compensation to
our employees, including grants in the form of options and
restricted stock. Although Form S-1 is still available for
such purposes, the unavailability of Form S-8 reduces our
flexibility in granting options and restricted stock to some
employees.

•

We face substantial ongoing costs associated with
    complying with the requirements of Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

We have extensive work remaining to remedy the material
weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We
expect that this work will extend into the 2006 fiscal year and
possibly beyond. The cost of this work will be significant in
2005 and 2006. These matters will continue to require a large
amount of time of our financial management and external
resources so long as the remediation work continues.

•

Ongoing SEC investigations regarding our accounting
    restatements could adversely affect us.

In January 2003, the SEC issued a formal order of investigation
related to our restatements of earnings for periods dating back
to 1997. On April 20, 2005, we received a subpoena from the
SEC under authority of the order of investigation requiring
production of additional documents relating to the potential
restatement we announced in March 2005. The SEC is investigating
the restatement detailed in Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. While we are cooperating fully with the
investigation, adverse developments in connection with the
investigation, including any expansion of the scope of the
investigation, could negatively impact us and could divert the
efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary
business operations. In connection with any SEC investigation,
it is possible that we will be required to pay fines, consent to
injunctions on future conduct or suffer other penalties, any of
which could have a material adverse effect on us.

•

We operate in a highly competitive industry.

The marketing communications business is highly competitive. Our
agencies and media services must compete with other agencies,
and with other providers of creative or media services, in order
to maintain existing client relationships and to win new
clients. The client’s perception of the quality of an
agency’s creative work, our reputation and the
agency’s reputation are important factors in determining
our competitive position. An agency’s ability to serve
clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad
geographic basis is also an important competitive consideration.
On the other hand, because an agency’s principal asset is
its people, freedom of entry into the business is almost
unlimited and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all
or some portion of a client’s account from a much larger
competitor.

Some clients require agencies to compete for business
periodically. We have lost client accounts in the past as a
result of such periodic competitions. To the extent that our
clients require us to participate in open competitions to
maintain accounts, it increases the risk of losing those
accounts.

Our large size may limit our potential for securing new
business, because many clients prefer not to be represented by
an agency that represents a competitor. Also, clients frequently
wish to have different products represented by different
agencies. Our ability to attract new clients and to retain
existing clients may, in some cases, be limited by clients’
policies or perceptions about conflicts of interest. These
policies can, in some cases, prevent one agency, or even
different agencies under our ownership, from performing similar
services for competing products or companies.



In addition, if our recent financial reporting difficulties were
to persist, it could divert the efforts and attention of our
management from our ordinary business operations or have an
adverse impact on clients’ perception of us and adversely
affect our overall ability to compete for new and existing
business.

•

We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees
    and management personnel.

Employees, including creative, research, media, account and
practice group specialists, and their skills and relationships
with clients, are among our most important assets. An important
aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and
retain key employees and management personnel.

Compensation for these key employees and management personnel is
an essential factor in attracting and retaining them, and there
can be no assurance that we will offer a level of compensation
sufficient to do so. Equity-based compensation, including in the
forms of options and restricted stock, plays an important role
in our compensation of new and existing talent. Until we have
received an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment
on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial
reporting from our independent registered public accounting
firm, our ability to use equity-based compensation to compensate
or attract employees and management personnel could be limited.
In particular, the ability to exercise outstanding options will
be limited, as will negotiated grants of options or restricted
stock. Our current financial reporting difficulties could
adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key personnel.

•

As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly
    susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic
    conditions.

Economic downturns often more severely affect the marketing
services industry than many other industries. In the past,
clients have responded, and may respond in the future, to weak
economic performance in any region where we operate by reducing
their marketing budgets, which are generally discretionary in
nature and easier to reduce in the short-term than other
expenses related to operations.

•

Our liquidity profile has recently been adversely
    affected.

In recent periods we have experienced operating losses which
have adversely affected our cash flows from operations. In
addition, our 364-day credit facility will expire on
September 30, 2005. We have recorded liabilities and
incurred substantial professional fees in connection with the
restatement. It is also possible that we will be required to pay
fines or other penalties or damages in connection with the
ongoing SEC investigation or future regulatory actions or civil
litigation. These items have impacted and will impact our
liquidity in future years negatively and could require us to
seek new or additional sources of liquidity to fund our working
capital needs, for example, through capital markets
transactions. There can be no guarantee that we would be able to
access any such new sources of new liquidity on commercially
reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to do so, our
working capital position would be adversely affected.

•

Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect
    us.

Our current long-term debt credit ratings as of
September 26, 2005 are Baa3 with negative outlook, BB- with
negative outlook and B+ with negative outlook, as reported by
Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, respectively. Although a ratings downgrade by
any of the ratings agencies will not trigger an acceleration of
any of our indebtedness, a downgrade may adversely affect our
ability to access capital and would likely result in more
stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of
any new indebtedness.

•

International business risks could adversely affect our
    operations.

International revenues represent a significant portion of our
revenues, approximately 45% in 2004. Our international
operations are exposed to risks which affect foreign operations
of all kinds, including, for example, local legislation,
monetary devaluation, exchange control restrictions and unstable
political conditions. These risks may limit our ability to grow
our business and effectively manage our operations in those
countries. In addition, because a high level of our revenues and
expenses is denominated in



currencies other than the US dollar, primarily the Euro and
Pound Sterling, fluctuations in exchange rates between the US
dollar and such currencies may materially affect our financial
results.

•

In 2004 and prior years, we recognized substantial
    impairment charges and increased our deferred tax valuation
    allowances, and we may be required to record additional charges
    in the future related to these matters.

We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill,
other intangible assets and fixed assets), investments and
deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability at
least annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment
or lack of realizability. If certain criteria are met, we are
required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance.
In the past, we have recorded substantial amounts of goodwill,
investment and other impairment charges, and have been required
to establish substantial valuation allowances with respect to
deferred tax assets and loss carry-forwards.

As of December 31, 2004, we have substantial amounts of
intangibles, investments and deferred tax assets on our
consolidated Balance Sheet. Future events, including our
financial performance and the strategic decisions we make, could
cause us to conclude that further impairment indicators exist
and that the asset values associated with intangibles,
investments and deferred tax assets may have become impaired.
Any resulting impairment loss would have an adverse impact on
our reported earnings in the period in which the charge is
recognized.

Any future impairment charge (excluding valuation allowance
charges) could also adversely affect our financial condition and
result in a violation of the financial covenants of our
Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility, which requires us to
maintain minimum levels of consolidated EBITDA (as defined in
that facility) and established ratios of debt for borrowed money
to consolidated EBITDA and interest coverage ratios. A violation
of any of these financial covenants could trigger a default
under this facility and adversely affect our liquidity.

•

We are subject to certain restrictions and must meet
    certain minimum financial covenants under our Revolving Credit
    Facility.

Our Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility contains covenants that
limit our flexibility in a variety of ways and that require us
to meet specified financial ratios. These covenants have
recently been amended. As amended, the Three-Year Revolving
Credit Facility does not permit us (i) to make cash
acquisitions in excess of $50.0 million until October 2006,
or thereafter in excess of $50.0 million until expiration
of the agreement in May 2007, subject to increases equal to the
net cash proceeds received in the applicable period from any
disposition of assets; (ii) to make capital expenditures in
excess of $210.0 million annually; (iii) to repurchase
or to declare or pay dividends on our capital stock (except for
any convertible preferred stock, convertible trust preferred
instrument or similar security, which includes our outstanding
5.40% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred), except
that we may repurchase our capital stock in connection with the
exercise of options by our employees or with proceeds
contemporaneously received from an issue of new shares of our
capital stock; and (iv) to incur new debt at our
subsidiaries, other than unsecured debt incurred in the ordinary
course of business, which may not exceed $10.0 million in
the aggregate with respect to our US subsidiaries.

Under the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility, we are also
subject to financial covenants with respect to our interest
coverage ratio, debt to EBITDA ratio and minimum EBITDA. We have
amended the financial covenants as they apply to periods
beginning with the third quarter of 2005. There can be no
assurance that we will be able to comply with these covenants
for the third quarter 2005.

•

We may not be able to meet our performance targets and
    milestones.

From time to time, we communicate to the market certain targets
and milestones for our financial and operating performance
including, but not limited to, the areas of revenue growth,
operating expense reduction and operating margin growth. These
targets and milestones are intended to provide metrics against
which to evaluate our performance, but they should not be
understood as predictions or guidance



about our expected performance. Our ability to meet any target
or milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and
we caution investors against placing undue reliance on them. See
Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.

•

We are subject to regulations that could restrict our
    activities or negatively impact our revenues.

Our industry is subject to government regulation, both domestic
and foreign. There has been an increasing tendency in the US on
the part of advertisers to resort to the courts and industry and
self-regulatory bodies to challenge comparative advertising on
the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive. Through
the years, there has been a continuing expansion of specific
rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures
and warning requirements with respect to the advertising for
certain products. Representatives within government bodies, both
domestic and foreign, continue to initiate proposals to ban the
advertising of specific products and to impose taxes on or deny
deductions for advertising which, if successful, may have an
adverse effect on advertising expenditures and consequently our
revenues.

Item 2.

Properties

Substantially all of our office space is leased from third
parties with expiration dates ranging from one to twenty-five
years. Certain leases are subject to rent reviews or contain
escalation clauses, and certain of our leases require the
payment of various operating expenses, which may also be subject
to escalation. Physical properties include leasehold
improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment located in our
offices. We believe that facilities leased or owned by us are
adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and
are well maintained. See Note 19 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a discussion of our lease commitments.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

We are or have been involved in legal and administrative
proceedings of various types. While any litigation contains an
element of uncertainty, we have no reason to believe that the
outcome of such proceedings or claims will have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition except as described
below.

Federal Securities Class Actions

During the fourth quarter 2004, the settlement of thirteen class
actions under the federal securities laws became final. The
class actions were filed against the Company and certain of our
present and former directors and officers on behalf of a
purported class of purchasers of our stock shortly after our
August 13, 2002 announcement regarding the restatement of
our previously reported earnings for the periods January 1,
1997 through March 31, 2002. These actions, which were all
filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York, were consolidated by the court and lead
counsel was appointed for all plaintiffs on November 15,
2002. On December 2, 2003, we reached an agreement in
principle to settle the consolidated class action shareholder
suits in federal district court in New York. Under the terms of
the settlement, we agreed to pay $115.0 million, comprised
of $20.0 million in cash and $95.0 million in shares
of our common stock at a value of $14.50 per share. On
November 4, 2004, the court entered an order granting final
approval of the settlement. The term of appeal for the
settlement expired on December 6, 2004. During the fourth
quarter of 2004, the $20.0 million cash portion of the
settlement was paid into escrow and $0.8 million of the
settlement shares were issued to the plaintiffs’ counsel as
payment of their fee. We recognized the cost of the settlement
in 2003. For a discussion of the litigation charge recorded
principally in connection with the settlement, see Note 19
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Derivative Actions

In the fourth quarter of 2004, the settlement of a shareholder
derivative suit became final. The suit was filed in New York
Supreme Court, New York County, by a single shareholder acting
on behalf of Interpublic against the Board of Directors and
against our auditors. This suit alleged a breach of fiduciary
duties to our shareholders. On November 26, 2002, another
shareholder derivative suit, alleging the same breaches of
fiduciary duties, was filed in New York Supreme Court, New York
County. On January 26, 2004, we reached an agreement in
principle to settle these derivative actions, agreeing to
institute certain corporate governance procedures prescribed by
the court. On June 11, 2004, the court entered an order
granting preliminary approval to the proposed settlement. These
governance procedures have been adopted as part of our Corporate
Governance Guidelines (which can be found on our website). The
court held a final approval and fairness hearing on
October 22, 2004, and on November 4, 2004, the court
entered an order granting final approval of the settlement.

SEC Investigation

In January 2003, the SEC issued a formal order of investigation
related to our restatements of earnings for periods dating back
to 1997. On April 20, 2005, we received a subpoena from the
SEC under authority of the order of investigation requiring
production of additional documents relating to the potential
restatement we announced in March 2005. The SEC is investigating
the restatement detailed in Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. We are cooperating fully with the
investigation.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

Not applicable.



PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related
    Stockholder Matters

Price Range of Common Stock

Our common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “IPG.”
The following table provides the high and low closing sales
prices per share for the periods shown below as reported on the
NYSE. At August 31, 2005, there were 16,275 registered
holders of our common stock.

Dividend Policy

No dividend was paid on our common stock during 2003, 2004, or
the first three quarters of 2005. Our future dividend policy
will be determined on a quarter-by-quarter basis and will depend
on earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other
factors. For a discussion of the restrictions under our amended
revolving credit facility, which limits our ability to declare
or pay dividends, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Transfer Agent and Registrar for Common Stock

The transfer agent and registrar for our common stock is:

Mellon Investor Services, Inc.

44 Wall Street, 6th Floor

New York, NY 10005

Tel: (877) 363-6398

Sales of Unregistered Securities

In the fourth quarter of 2004, we issued common stock without
registration under the Securities Act in payment of deferred
compensation for acquisitions we made in earlier periods. The
specific transactions were as follows:

•

On November 22, 2004, we issued 29,015 shares of our
    common stock to a shareholder of a company in connection with
    the purchase of 49% of the common stock of such company in the
    fourth quarter of 1999. The shares of our common stock had a
    market value of $351,114 as of the



date of issuance and were issued without registration in
    reliance on Section 4(2) under the Securities Act, based on
    the status of the shareholder as an accredited investor.

•

On October 26, 2004, we issued 296,928 shares of our
    common stock to four former shareholders of a company as a final
    deferred payment for 100% of the shares of the company, which we
    acquired in the third quarter of 2000. The shares of our common
    stock were valued at $3,327,389 as of the date of issuance and
    were issued without registration in reliance on
    Regulation S under the Securities Act.

•

On October 19, 2004, we issued 115,838 shares of our
    common stock, and on November 18, 2004 we issued
    242,713 shares of our common stock, to four former
    shareholders of a company for shares we acquired in the first
    quarter of 1997 and in the second quarter of 2004. The shares of
    our common stock were valued at $1,742,671 and $2,698,491, as of
    their respective dates of issuance, and were issued without
    registration in reliance on Regulation S under the
    Securities Act.

Repurchase of Equity Securities

The following table provides information regarding our purchases
of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2004:

Maximum

Number

of Shares

Average

Total Number of Shares

that May Yet Be

Total Number

Price

Purchased as Part of

Purchased

of Shares

Paid per

Publicly Announced

Under the Plans

Purchased

Share(2)

Plans or Programs

or Programs

October 1-31

10,285

$

11.34

—

—

November 1-30

2,461

$

12.22

—

—

December 1-31

9,657

$

12.97

—

—

Total(1)

22,403

$

12.14

—

—

(1)

Consists of restricted shares of our common stock withheld under
    the terms of grants under employee stock compensation plans to
    offset tax withholding obligations that occurred upon vesting
    and release of restricted shares (the “Withheld
    Shares”).

(2)

The average price per month of the Withheld Shares was
    calculated by dividing the aggregate value of the tax
    withholding obligations for each month by the aggregate number
    of shares of our common stock withheld each month.



Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The following financial data at December 31, 2004 and 2003
and for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002
has been derived from the audited financial statements of the
Company which appear elsewhere in this document. The audited
financial statements at December 31, 2003 and for the years
ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 have been restated and the
financial data presented below reflects the restatement. The
following financial data at December 31, 2002, 2001 and
2000 and for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 has
been derived from unaudited financial statements and includes
the effects of the restatement items discussed in Item 8,
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and Note 2,
Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements. The
Selected Financial Data should be read in conjunction with:

•

Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations

•

Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
    Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Financial
    Statements

•

Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
    Note 20, Results by Quarter



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND SELECTED FINANCIAL
DATA

(1)

Includes amortization expense of $161.0 and $132.3 in 2001 and
    2000, respectively.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(“MD&A”) is intended to help you understand The
Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the
“Company”, “we”, “us” or
“our”). MD&A is provided as a supplement to and
should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and
the accompanying notes. The results included in this MD&A
have been restated. Our MD&A includes the following sections:

OVERVIEW provides a description of our business, the drivers of
our business, and how we analyze our business. It then provides
an analysis of our 2004 performance and a description of the
significant events impacting 2004 and thereafter.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS provides an analysis of the consolidated
and segment results of operations for 2004 compared to 2003 and
2003 compared to 2002.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES provides an overview of our cash
flows, financing, contractual obligations and derivatives and
hedging activities.

INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING provides a description
of the status of our compliance with Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules. For more detail,
see Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Financial
Statements and Item 9A, Controls and Procedures.

RESTATEMENT provides a description and reconciliation of the
restatement. For additional information, see Item 8,
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 2,
Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES provides a discussion of our
accounting policies that require critical judgment, assumptions
and estimates.

OTHER MATTERS provides a discussion of our significant
non-operational items which impact our financial statements,
such as the SEC investigation and material contingencies.

RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS by reference to Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, provides a description of
accounting standards which we have not yet been required to
implement and may be applicable to our operations, as well as
those significant accounting standards which were adopted during
2004.

OVERVIEW

Our Business

We are one of the world’s largest advertising and marketing
services companies, comprised of hundreds of communication
agencies around the world that deliver custom marketing
solutions on behalf of our clients. Our agencies cover the
spectrum of marketing disciplines and specialties, from
traditional services such as consumer advertising and direct
marketing, to services such as experiential marketing and
branded entertainment. With offices in approximately 130
countries and approximately 43,700 employees, our agencies work
with our clients to create global and local marketing campaigns
that cross borders and media. These marketing programs seek to
build brands, influence consumer behavior and sell products.

We have organized our agencies into five global operating
divisions and a group of leading stand-alone agencies. Four of
these divisions, McCann WorldGroup (“McCann”), The FCB
Group (“FCB”), The Lowe Group (“Lowe”) and
Draft Worldwide (“Draft”), provide a distinct,
comprehensive array of global communications and marketing
services. The fifth global operating division, The Constituent
Management



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Group (“CMG”), including Weber Shandwick, FutureBrand,
DeVries, Golin Harris, Jack Morton and Octagon Worldwide
(“Octagon”), provides clients with diversified
services, including public relations, meeting and event
production, sports and entertainment marketing, corporate and
brand identity and strategic marketing consulting.

Our leading stand-alone agencies provide clients with a full
range of advertising and marketing services. These agencies
partner with our global operating groups as needed, and include
Deutsch, Campbell-Ewald, Hill Holliday and The Martin Agency. We
believe this organizational structure allows us to provide
comprehensive solutions for clients, enables stronger financial
and operational growth opportunities and allows us to improve
operating efficiencies within our organization. We practice a
decentralized management style, providing agency management with
a great deal of operational autonomy, while holding them broadly
responsible for their agencies’ financial and operational
performance.

For financial reporting purposes, we have three reportable
segments. The largest segment, Integrated Agency Networks
(“IAN”), is comprised of McCann, FCB, Lowe, Draft and
our leading stand-alone agencies. CMG comprises our second
reportable segment. Our third reportable segment was comprised
of our Motorsports operations, which were sold during 2004. IAN
also includes our media agencies, Initiative Media and Magna
Global which are part of our leading stand-alone agencies, and
Universal McCann which is part of McCann. Our media offering
creates integrated communications solutions, with services that
cover the full spectrum of communication needs, including
channel strategy, planning and buying, consulting, production,
and post-campaign analysis. See Note 18 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further discussion.

Business Drivers

We generate revenue from fees and commissions. Our primary
sources of revenue are the planning and execution of advertising
programs in various media and the planning and execution of
other marketing and communications programs. The fee and
commission amounts vary depending on the level of client
spending or the time we incur performing the specific services
required by a client plus the gross-up of other costs.

Historically, revenues for creation, planning and placement of
advertising were derived predominantly from commissions. These
services are now being provided on a negotiated fee basis and to
a lesser extent on a commission basis. Fees are usually
calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead
and a mark-up. Many clients are now including an incentive
compensation component in their total compensation package. This
provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed upon
metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned
based on services provided, and are usually based as a
percentage or fee over the total cost and expense to complete
the assignment. They can also be derived when clients pay us the
gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net
rate. The difference is the commission that is earned by us,
which is either retained in total or shared with the client
depending on the nature of the services agreement.

We pay the media charges with respect to contracts for
advertising time or space that we place on behalf of our
clients. To reduce our risk from a client’s non-payment, we
generally pay media charges only after we have received funds
from our clients. Generally, we act as the client’s agent
rather than the primary obligor. In some instances we agree with
the media provider that we will only be liable to pay the media
after the client has paid us for the media charges.

We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public
relations, sales promotion, event marketing, and sports and
entertainment marketing and corporate and brand identity
services.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Our revenue is dependent upon the advertising, marketing and
corporate communications requirements of our clients and tends
to be higher in the second half of the calendar year as a result
of the holiday season and lower in the first half as a result of
the post-holiday slow-down of client activity. Our agencies
generally have written contracts with their clients which
dictate proportional performance, monthly basis or completed
contract revenue recognition. Fee revenue recognized on a
completed contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal
revenues experienced in the fourth quarter due to the majority
of our contracts ending at December 31. As is customary in
the industry, these contracts provide for termination by either
party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days. See
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
discussion on the revenue recognition accounting policies.

Our revenue is driven by our ability to maintain and grow
existing business as well as generate new business. Our business
is directly affected by economic conditions in the industries
and regions we serve and by the marketing and advertising
requirements and practices of our clients and potential clients.
When economic conditions decline, companies generally decrease
advertising and marketing budgets, and it becomes more difficult
to achieve profitability. Our business is highly competitive,
which tends to mitigate our pricing power and that of our
competition.

We believe that expanding the range of services we provide to
our key clients is critical to our continued growth. We are
focused on strengthening our collaboration across agencies,
which we believe will increase our ability to better service
existing clients and win new clients.

2004 Performance

The primary focus of our business analysis is on operating
performance — specifically, changes in revenues and
operating expenses.

We analyze the increase or decrease in revenue by reviewing the
components of the change, including: the impact of foreign
currency rate changes, the impact of acquisitions and
divestitures, and the balance, which we refer to as organic
revenue change. As economic conditions and demand for our
services can vary between geographic regions, we also analyze
revenues by domestic and international sources.

Our operating expenses are in two primary categories: salaries
and related expenses, and office and general expenses. As with
revenue, we review the following components: impact of foreign
currency rate changes, impact of acquisitions and divestitures,
and the organic component of the change. Salaries and related
expenses tend to fluctuate with changes in revenues and are
measured as a percentage of revenues. Office and general
expenses, which have both a fixed and variable component, tend
not to vary as much with revenue.

As a part of our restatement process we issued accounting
guidance to our agencies to strengthen adherence to Staff
Accounting Bulletin 104,

Revenue Recognition.

Our
policies are further explained in our revenue recognition policy
discussion in both management’s discussion and analysis and
the footnotes. This accounting guidance governs the timing of
when revenue is recognized. Accordingly, if work is being
performed in a given quarter but there is insufficient evidence
on an arrangement, the related revenue would be deferred to a
future quarter when the evidence is obtained. However, our costs
of services, on the other hand, are primarily expensed as
incurred, except that incremental direct costs may be deferred
under a significant long term contract until complete. With
revenue being deferred until completion of the contract and
costs primarily expensed as incurred, this will have a negative
impact on our operating margin until the revenue can be
recognized and in the period of revenue recognition. While this
will not affect cash flow, it will affect organic revenue growth
and margins and this effect is likely to be greater in comparing
quarters than in comparing full years.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

In addition, the Company also issued guidelines to our agencies
units to strengthen adherence to EITF 99-19,

Reporting
Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent.

This
accounting guidance governs when revenues should be recorded net
of external media or production cost and when it should be
recorded gross. The guidance is very contract specific and can
vary period to period and agency by agency. While this
accounting will not affect cash flow and profitability, it could
affect changes in revenue growth.

Our financial performance over the past several years has lagged
behind that of our industry peers, due to lower revenue growth,
as well as impairment and restructuring charges. We are working
to improve our margins by restoring consistent revenue growth
and controlling expenses. Our success in doing so in 2004 was
significantly limited by the cost of business priorities that we
consider urgent, such as improving our internal control over
financial reporting, consolidating financial back office
activities by creating a shared service center, upgrading our
information technology systems infrastructure, professional
fees, and exiting the Motorsports business. With the exception
of salary-related expenses which have increased due to our
additional headcount, we believe that most other costs
associated with these priorities are transitional in nature, but
do not expect a decrease in total office and general expense
over the short term due to the significant professional fees
required as a result of our internal control weaknesses. The
cost of remedying our internal control weaknesses will be
significant in 2005 and 2006.

We have indicated that accelerating organic revenue growth and
improving operating margin are key corporate metrics. The
following are the performance priorities and basis of analysis
of our financial and operating performance:

•

We seek to accelerate organic revenue growth

by
    strengthening collaboration among our agencies and increasing
    the number of marketing services used by each client. We have
    established a supplemental incentive plan, expanded internal
    tools and resources, and heightened internal communications
    aimed at encouraging collaboration. We analyze our performance
    by calculating the percentage increase in revenue related to
    organic growth between comparable periods.

•

We seek to improve operating margin

by increasing revenue
    and by controlling salaries and related expenses, as well as
    office and general expenses. We analyze our performance by
    comparing revenue to prior periods and measuring salaries and
    related expenses, as well as office and general expenses, as a
    percentage of revenue. We define operating margin as operating
    income divided by reported revenue.

For the Years

Ended

December 31,



Organic revenue growth percentage (vs. prior year)

1.2

%

(3.0

)%

Operating margin percentage

(1.5

)%

(0.5

)%

Salaries and related expenses as a percentage of revenue

58.5

%

56.8

%

Office and general expenses as a percentage revenue

35.2

%

36.1

%

Organic revenue growth

improved in 2004, but we have not
yet reached our goal of matching peer group organic growth.
Domestic organic revenue growth was 2.5%, while international
revenue decreased by 0.4% on an organic basis.

Operating margin

during 2004 was impacted by cost
increases and a number of charges. During 2004, we recorded
asset impairments of $322.2, restructuring charges of $62.2 and
contract termination charges related to the Motorsports business
of $113.6, which together comprised a $31.1 increase in such
charges as compared to 2003. Operating margin in 2003 was
impacted by approximately $294.0 of asset



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

impairment charges and $172.9 of restructuring charges.
Additionally, in 2004, we recorded cost increases for salaries
and related expenses of $232.9 and professional fees of $87.6.

Significant 2004 Activity
and Subsequent Events

Income Statement

Financing Activities

•

We replaced our previous 364-day and five-year revolving credit
    facilities totaling $875.0, with 364-Day and Three-Year
    Revolving Credit Facilities, maturing May 2007, totaling $700.0.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

•

We completed the issuance and sale of $250.0 aggregate principal
    amount of 5.40% Senior Unsecured Notes maturing 2009 and
    $350.0 aggregate principal amount of 6.25% Senior Unsecured
    Notes maturing 2014.

•

Proceeds from the two debt issuances were used to pay down
    $250.0 of the 7.875% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2005 and
    redeem approximately $346.8 of the 1.87% Convertible
    Subordinated Notes in December 2004.

•

All of the 1.80% Convertible Subordinate Notes were
    redeemed for approximately $246.0 in January 2004 using net
    proceeds from offerings of $246.0 of convertible preferred stock
    and common stock in late 2003.

Subsequent to 2004

Management Changes

Subsequent to 2004

•

In January 2005, Michael Roth was named our Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer. Concurrently, David Bell, our Chairman and
    Chief Executive Officer since 2003 was named Co-Chairman.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Consolidated Results of Operations — 2004
Compared to 2003

REVENUE

The components of the 2004 change were as follows:

Total

Domestic

International

$

% Change

$

% Change

% of Total

$

% Change

% of Total

2003 (Restated)

$

6,161.7

$

3,459.3

56.1

%

$

2,702.4

43.9

%

Foreign currency changes

237.7

3.9

%

—

—

237.7

8.8

%

Net acquisitions/divestitures

(88.0

)

(1.4

)%

(35.4

)

(1.0

)%

(52.6

)

(1.9

)%

Organic

75.6

1.2

%

85.3

2.5

%

(9.7

)

(0.4

)%

Total change

225.3

3.7

%

49.9

1.4

%

175.4

6.5

%


$

6,387.0

$

3,509.2

54.9

%

$

2,877.8

45.1

%

For the year ended December 31, 2004, consolidated revenues
increased $225.3, or 3.7%, as compared to 2003, which was
attributable to foreign currency exchange rate changes of $237.7
and organic revenue growth of $75.6, partially offset by the
effect of net acquisitions and divestitures of $88.0.

The increase due to foreign currency changes was attributable to
the strengthening of the Euro and Pound Sterling in relation to
the US Dollar. The net effect of acquisitions and
divestitures resulted largely from the sale of the Motorsports
business during 2004.

During 2004, organic revenue change of 75.6, or 1.2%, was driven
by an increase at IAN, partially offset by decrease at CMG. The
increase at IAN was a result of client wins, additional business
from existing clients, and overall growth in domestic markets.
The decrease at CMG was as a result of weakness in demand for
branding and sports marketing services, partially offset by
growth in the public relations business.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

OPERATING EXPENSES

For the Years Ended December 31,



% of

% of

$

Revenue

$

Revenue

$ Change

% Change

(Restated)

Salaries and related expenses

$

3,733.5

58.5

%

$

3,500.6

56.8

%

$

232.9

6.7

%

Office and general expenses

2,249.8

35.2

%

2,225.7

36.1

%

24.1

1.1

%

Restructuring charges

62.2

172.9

(110.7

)

(64.0

)%

Long-lived asset impairment and other charges

322.2

294.0

28.2

9.6

%

Motorsports contract termination costs

113.6

—

113.6

—

Total operating expenses

$

6,481.3

$

6,193.2

$

288.1

4.7

%

Salaries and Related Expenses

The components of the 2004 change were as follows:

Total

% of

$

% Change

Revenue

2003 (Restated)

$

3,500.6

56.8

%

Foreign currency changes

129.4

3.7

%

Net acquisitions/divestitures

(40.5

)

(1.2

)%

Organic

144.0

4.1

%

Total change

232.9

6.7

%


$

3,733.5

58.5

%

Salaries and related expenses are the largest component of
operating expenses and consist primarily of salaries and related
benefits, and performance incentives. During 2004, salaries and
related expenses increased to 58.5% of revenues, compared to
56.8% in 2003. In 2004, salaries and related expenses increased
$144.0, excluding the increase related to foreign currency
exchange rate changes of $129.4 and a decrease related to net
acquisitions and divestitures of $40.5.

Salaries and related expenses were impacted by changes in
foreign currency rates, attributable to the strengthening of the
Euro and Pound Sterling in relation to the US Dollar. The
increase due to foreign currency rate changes was partially
offset by the impact of net acquisitions and divestitures
activity, which resulted largely from the sale of the
Motorsports business during 2004.

The increase in salaries and related expenses, excluding the
impact of foreign currency and net acquisitions and
divestitures, was primarily the result of increases in employee
headcount at certain locations and increased utilization of
temporary and freelance staffing and higher performance
incentive expense at a number of agencies that experienced an
increase in operating results. Furthermore, during the year, we
hired additional personnel within our operating units and in the
corporate group to support our back office processes, including
accounting and shared services initiatives, as well as our
ongoing efforts in achieving Sarbanes-Oxley compliance. We
reduced staff at certain operations after client accounts were



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

lost. Cost savings associated with headcount reductions were
partially offset by increased severance costs associate with the
headcount reductions.

Office and General
Expenses

The components of the 2004 change were as follows:

Total

% of

$

% Change

Revenue

2003 (Restated)

$

2,225.7

36.1

%

Foreign currency changes

102.9

4.6

%

Net acquisitions/divestitures

(63.9

)

(2.9

)%

Organic

(14.9

)

(0.7

)%

Total change

24.1

1.1

%


$

2,249.8

35.2

%

Office and general expenses primarily consists of rent, office
and equipment, depreciation, professional fees, other overhead
expenses and certain out-of-pocket expenses related to our
revenue. During 2004, office and general expenses decreased to
35.2% of revenues, compared to 36.1% in 2003. In 2004, office
and general expenses decreased $14.9, excluding the increase
related to foreign currency exchange rate changes of $102.9 and
a decrease related to net acquisitions and divestitures of $63.9.

Office and general expenses were impacted by changes in foreign
currency rates, attributable to the strengthening of the Euro
and Pound Sterling in relation to the US Dollar. The
increase due to foreign currency rate changes was offset by the
impact of net acquisitions and divestitures activity, which
resulted largely from the sale of the Motorsports business in
2004.

The decrease in office and general expenses, excluding the
impact of foreign currency and net acquisition and divestitures
activity, was primarily the result of lower occupancy and
overhead costs, and a decrease related to charges recorded by
CMG in 2003 to secure certain sports television rights. These
decreases, however, were partially offset by increases driven by
a rise in professional fees as part of our ongoing efforts in
achieving Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, and the development of
information technology systems and processes related to our
shared services initiatives.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Restructuring Charges

During 2004 and 2003, we recorded net expense related to lease
termination and other exit costs and severance and termination
costs for the 2003 and 2001 restructuring programs of $62.2 and
$172.9, respectively, which included the impact of adjustments
resulting from changes in management’s estimates as
described below. A summary of the net (income) and expense by
segment is as follows:

Lease termination and other exit costs

2003 Program

Net expense related to lease termination and other exit costs
recorded for 2004 were $52.1, comprised of charges of $67.8,
partially offset by adjustments to management estimates of
$15.7. For 2003, net expense was $33.6, comprised of charges of
$41.6 offset by similar adjustments of $8.0. These charges
related to vacating 43 and 55 offices in 2004 and 2003,
respectively, located primarily in the US and Europe. Charges
were recorded at net present value and were net of estimated
sublease rental income. The discount related to lease
terminations is being amortized over the expected remaining term
of the related lease.

In addition to amounts recorded as restructuring charges, we
recorded charges of $11.1 and $16.5 during 2004 and 2003,
respectively, related to the accelerated amortization of
leasehold improvements on properties included in the 2003
program. These charges were included in office and general
expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

2001 Program

Net (income) and expense related to lease termination and other
exit costs of ($4.3) and $13.6, recorded for 2004 and 2003,
respectively, resulted exclusively from the impact of
adjustments to management estimates. The 2001 program resulted
in approximately 180 offices being vacated worldwide.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Adjustments to Estimates

Lease termination and other exit costs for the 2003 and 2001
restructuring programs included the net impact of adjustments
for changes in management estimates to decrease the
restructuring reserves by $20.0 in 2004 and increase the reserve
by $5.6 in 2003. Adjustments to management estimates of net
lease obligations included both increases and decreases to the
restructuring reserve balance as a result of several factors.
The significant factors were our negotiation of terms upon the
exit of leased properties, changes in sublease rental income and
utilization of previously vacated properties by certain of our
agencies due to improved economic conditions in certain markets,
all of which occurred during the period recorded.

Severance and termination costs

2003 Program

Net expense related to severance and termination costs of $19.5
recorded for 2004 were comprised of charges of $26.4, partially
offset by adjustments to management estimates of $6.9. For 2003,
net expenses of $125.8 was comprised of charges of $133.7 offset
by adjustments of $7.9. These charges related to a worldwide
workforce reduction of approximately 400 employees in 2004 and
2,900 in 2003. The restructuring program affected employee
groups across all levels and functions, including executive,
regional and account management and administrative, creative and
media production personnel. The majority of the severance
charges related to the US and Europe, with the remainder in Asia
and Latin America.

2001 Program

Net income related to severance and termination costs of $5.1
and $0.1 recorded for 2004 and 2003, respectively, resulted
exclusively from the impact of adjustments to management
estimates. The 2001 program related to a worldwide reduction of
approximately 7,000 employees.

Adjustments to Estimates

Severance and termination costs associated with the 2003 and
2001 restructuring programs included the net impact of
adjustments for changes in management estimates to decrease the
restructuring reserves by $12.0 in 2004 and $8.0 in 2003.
Adjustments to management estimates of severance and termination
obligations included both increases and decreases to the
restructuring reserve balance as a result of several factors.
The significant factors were the decrease in the number of
terminated employees, change in amounts paid to terminated
employees and change in estimates of taxes and restricted stock
payments related to terminated employees, all of which occurred
in the period recorded.

For additional information, see Note 5 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Long-Lived Asset Impairment and Other Charges

Long-lived assets include land, buildings, equipment, goodwill
and other intangible assets. Buildings, equipment and other
intangible assets with finite lives are depreciated or amortized
on a straight-line basis over their respective estimated useful
lives. At least annually, we review all long-lived assets for
impairment. When necessary, we record an impairment charge for
the amount that the carrying value exceeds the fair value. See
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for fair
value determination and impairment testing methodologies.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The following table summarizes long-lived asset impairment and
other charges:

For the Years Ended December 31,


2003 (Restated)

Motor-

Motor-

IAN

CMG

sports

Total

IAN

CMG

sports

Total

Goodwill impairment

$

220.2

$

91.7

$

—

$

311.9

$

0.4

$

218.0

$

—

$

218.4

Fixed asset impairment

2.0

0.4

3.0

5.4

2.3

—

63.8

66.1

Other

4.9

—

—

4.9

9.1

0.4

—

9.5

Total

$

227.1

$

92.1

$

3.0

$

322.2

$

11.8

$

218.4

$

63.8

$

294.0

The long-lived asset impairment charges recorded in 2004 and
2003 are due to the following:

2004 Impairments

IAN

— During the third quarter of 2004,
we recorded goodwill impairment charges of approximately $220.2
at The Partnership reporting unit, which was comprised of, Lowe
Worldwide, Draft Worldwide, Mullen, Dailey & Associates and
BGW. Our long-term projections showed previously unanticipated
declines in discounted future operating cash flows due to recent
client losses, reduced client spending, and declining industry
valuation metrics. These discounted future operating cash flow
projections caused the estimated fair value of The Partnership
to be less than the book value. The Partnership was disbanded in
the fourth quarter as of 2004. The Partnership was subsequently
disbanded in the fourth quarter of 2004 and the remaining
goodwill was allocated based on the relative fair value of the
agencies at the time of disbandment. We considered the
possibility of impairment at Lowe and Draft, the two largest
agencies previously within The Partnership. However, at this
point we have determined that there is no discernible trigger
event for an additional impairment. We will continue to monitor
the results and, should operating performance worsen,
particularly at Lowe we may conclude that a trigger event has
occurred and impairment may then be required.

CMG

— As a result of the annual
impairment review, a goodwill impairment charge of $91.7 was
recorded at our CMG reporting unit, which is comprised of Weber
Shandwick, Golin Harris, DeVries Public Relations, Octagon
Worldwide and FutureBrand. The fair value of CMG was adversely
affected by declining industry market valuation metrics,
specifically, a decrease in the EBITDA multiples used in the
underlying valuation calculations. The impact of the lower
EBITDA multiples caused the calculated fair value of CMG
goodwill to be less than the related book value.

2003 Impairments

CMG

— We recorded an impairment charge
of $218.0 to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at Octagon.
The Octagon impairment charge reflects the reduction of the
unit’s fair value due principally to poor financial
performance in 2003 and lower than expected future financial
performance. Specifically, there was significant pricing
pressure in both overseas and domestic TV rights distribution,
declining fees from athlete representation, and lower than
anticipated proceeds from committed future events, including
ticket revenue and sponsorship.

Motorsports

— We recorded fixed asset
impairment charges of $63.8, consisting of $38.0 in connection
with the sale of a business comprised of the four owned auto
racing circuits and $9.6 related to the sales of other
Motorsports entities and a fixed asset impairment of $16.2 for
outlays that Motorsports was contractually required to spend to
improve the racing facilities.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

For additional information, see Note 8 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Motorsports Contract Termination Costs

As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, during the year ended December 31, 2004, we
recorded a pretax charge of $113.6 related to a series of
agreements with the British Racing Drivers Club and Formula One
Administration Limited which release us from certain guarantees
and lease obligations in the United Kingdom. We have exited this
business and do not anticipate any additional material charges.

EXPENSE AND OTHER INCOME

For the Years Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

(Restated)

Interest expense

$

(172.0

)

$

(207.0

)

$

35.0

(16.9

)%

Debt prepayment penalty

(9.8

)

(24.8

)

15.0

(60.5

)%

Interest income

50.7

39.3

11.4

29.0

%

Investment impairments

(63.4

)

(71.5

)

8.1

(11.3

)%

Litigation charges

32.5

(127.6

)

160.1

(125.5

)%

Other income (expense)

(10.7

)

50.3

(61.0

)

(121.3

)%

Total

$

(172.7

)

$

(341.3

)

$

168.6

(49.4

)%

Interest Expense

The decrease in interest expense was primarily due to the
redemption of our $250.0 1.80% Convertible Subordinate
Notes in January 2004 and the early redemption of our borrowings
under the Prudential Agreements during the third quarter of 2003.

Debt Prepayment Penalty

During the fourth quarter of 2004, a prepayment penalty of $9.8
was recorded related to the early retirement of $250.0 of the
7.875% Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2005. During the third
quarter of 2003, we repaid our borrowings under the Prudential
Agreements, repaying $142.5 principal amount and incurring a
prepayment penalty of $24.8.

Interest Income

The increase in interest income in 2004 was primarily due to an
increase in our average balance of short-term investments held
during the year, as well as an increase in interest rates when
compared to 2003.

Investment Impairments

During 2004, we recorded investment impairment charges of $63.4.
The principal component of the charge was $50.9 related to the
impairment of an unconsolidated investment in a German
advertising agency, Springer & Jacoby, as a result of a
decrease in projected operating results. Additionally, we
recorded impairment charges of $4.7 related to unconsolidated
affiliates primarily in Israel, Brazil, Japan and India, and
$7.8 related to several other available-for-sale investments.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

During 2003, we recorded $71.5 of investment impairment charges
related to 20 investments. The charge related principally to
investments in Fortune Promo 7 of $9.5 in the Middle East, Koch
Tavares of $7.7 in Latin America, Daiko of $10.0 in Japan, Roche
Macaulay Partners of $7.9 in Canada, Springer & Jacoby
of $6.5 in Germany and Global Hue of $6.9 in the US. The
majority of the impairment charges resulted from deteriorating
economic conditions in the countries in which the agencies
operate, due to the loss of one or several key clients.

Litigation Charges

During 2004, with the settlement approved we received $20.0 from
insurance proceeds which we recorded as a reduction in
litigation charges because we had not previously established a
receivable. We also recorded a reduction of 12.5 relating to a
decrease in the share price between the tentative settlement
date and the final settlement date.

During 2003, we recorded litigation charges of $127.6 for
various legal matters, of which $115.0 related to a
then-tentative settlement of the class action shareholder suits
discussed in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Under the terms of the settlement, we were required
to pay $20.0 in cash and issue 6.6 shares of our common
stock. The ultimate amount of the litigation charge related to
the settlement was to be dependent upon our stock price at the
time of the final settlement (as the number of shares was fixed
in the agreement), which took place in December 2004.

Other Income (Expense)

In 2004, the $10.7 other expense included $18.2 of net losses on
the sale of 19 agencies. The losses related primarily to the
sale of Transworld Marketing, a US-based promotions agency,
which resulted in a loss of $8.6, and a $6.2 loss for the final
liquidation of the Motorsports investment. See Note 4 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of
the Motorsports disposition. These net losses were offset by
gains of sale of Modem Media shares and other available-for-sale
securities and miscellaneous investment income of $0.8 and $6.7,
respectively.

In 2003, other income of $50.3 included approximately
11.0 shares of Modem Media sold for net proceeds of
approximately $57.0, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $30.3. We
also sold all of the approximately 11.7 shares of Taylor
Nelson Sofres plc (“TNS”) we had acquired through the
sale of NFO WorldGroup Inc. (“NFO”), for approximately
$42.0 of net proceeds. A pre-tax gain of $13.3 was recorded.

OTHER ITEMS

Income Taxes

For the Years Ended

December 31,



(Restated)

Provision for income taxes

$

262.2

$

242.7

Effective tax rate

98.2

%

65.1

%

Our effective tax rate was negatively impacted in both 2004 and
2003 by the establishment of valuation allowances, as described
below, restructuring charges, and non-deductible long-lived
asset impairment charges. In 2004, our effective tax rate was
also impacted by pretax charges and related tax benefits
resulting from the Motorsports contract termination costs. The
difference between the effective tax



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

rate and the statutory federal rate of 35% is also due to state
and local taxes and the effect of non-US operations.

Valuation Allowance

Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 109,

Accounting for Income Taxes,

we are required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the
realizability of our deferred tax assets. SFAS No. 109
requires that a valuation allowance be established when it is
more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax
assets will not be realized. In circumstances where there is
sufficient negative evidence, establishment of valuation
allowance must be considered. We believe that cumulative losses
in the most recent three-year period represent sufficient
negative evidence under the provisions of SFAS No. 109
and, as a result, we determined that certain of our deferred tax
assets required the establishment of a valuation allowance. The
deferred tax assets for which an allowance was established
relate primarily to foreign net operating and US capital loss
carryforwards.

During 2004, the valuation allowance of $236.0 was established
in continuing operations on existing deferred tax assets and
current year losses with no benefit. The total valuation
allowance as of December 31, 2004 was $488.6. Our income
tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent
of offsetting decreases in our valuation allowance. The
establishment or reversal of valuation allowances could have a
significant negative or positive impact on future earnings.

During 2003, the valuation allowance of $111.4 was established
in continuing operations on existing deferred tax assets and
losses in 2003 with no benefit. In addition, $3.7 of valuation
allowances were established for certain US capital and other
loss carryforwards. The total valuation allowance as of
December 31, 2003 was $252.6.

For additional information, see Note 10 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Minority Interest and Unconsolidated Affiliates

For the Years Ended

December 31,



(Restated)

Income applicable to minority interests, net of tax

$

(21.5

)

$

(27.0

)

Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates, net of tax

$

5.8

$

2.4

The decrease in income applicable to minority interests was
primarily due to lower earnings of majority-owned international
businesses, primarily in Europe, and the sale of majority-owned
businesses in Latin America.

The increase in equity in net income of unconsolidated
affiliates was primarily due to the impact of prior year losses
at Modem Media, which was sold in 2003, and the impact of higher
2003 losses at an unconsolidated investment in Brazil and a
US-based sports and entertainment event business.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

NET INCOME (LOSS)

For the Years Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

(Restated)

Loss from continuing operations

$

(544.9

)

$

(640.1

)

$

95.2

14.9

%

Less: preferred stock dividends

19.8

—

19.8

—

Net loss from continuing operations

(564.7

)

(640.1

)

75.4

11.8

%

Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes of $3.5 and
    $8.3, respectively

6.5

101.0

(94.5

)

(93.6

)%

Net loss applicable to common stockholders

$

(558.2

)

$

(539.1

)

$

(19.1

)

3.5

%

Loss from Continuing Operations

In 2004, our loss from continuing operations decreased by $95.2
or 14.9% as a result of an increase in revenue of $225.3 and a
decrease in expense and other income primarily driven by higher
litigation costs in 2003, as a result of the shareholder suit
settlement. These changes were partially offset by an increase
in operating expenses of $288.1, which includes Motorsports
contract termination costs of $113.6.

Income from Discontinued Operations

Recorded within income from discontinued operations is the
impact of our sale of NFO, our research unit, to TNS in 2003.
NFO is classified in discontinued operations and the results of
operations and cash flows of NFO have been removed from our
results of continuing operations and cash flows for all periods.
During 2003, we completed the sale of NFO for $415.6 in cash
($376.7, net of cash sold and expenses) and approximately
11.7 shares of TNS stock. We sold the TNS stock in December
2003 for net proceeds of approximately $42.0. As a result of the
sale of NFO, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $99.1 ($89.1, net
of tax) in the third quarter of 2003 after certain post closing
adjustments. The TNS shares sold resulted in a pre-tax gain of
$13.3. In July 2004, we received an additional $10.0 ($6.5, net
of tax) from TNS as a final payment. For additional information,
see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Segment Results of Operations — 2004 Compared to

As discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, we have three reporting segments: our operating
divisions, IAN, CMG and Motorsports. We also report results for
the corporate group. The profitability measure employed by our
chief operating decision makers for allocating resources to
operating divisions and assessing operating division performance
is operating profit. For this purpose, amounts reported as
segment operating profit exclude the impact of restructuring and
impairment charges, as we do not consider these charges when
assessing operating division performance or when allocating
resources. Segment profit excludes interest income and expense,
debt repayment penalties, investment impairments, litigation
charges and other non-operating income. The Motorsports business
was sold during 2004. Other than long-lived asset impairment and
contract termination costs, the operating results of Motorsports
are



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

not material to consolidated results, and therefore are not
discussed in detail below. The following table summarizes
revenue and operating income by segment:

INTEGRATED AGENCY NETWORKS (“IAN”)

REVENUE

The components of the 2004 change were as follows:

Total

Domestic

International

$

% Change

$

% Change

% of Total

$

% Change

% of Total

2003 (Restated)

$

5,140.5

$

2,864.4

55.7

%

$

2,276.1

44.3

%

Foreign currency changes

194.1

3.8

%

—

—

194.1

8.5

%

Net acquisitions/divestitures

(40.0

)

(0.8

)%

(27.5

)

(1.0

)%

(12.5

)

(0.5

)%

Organic

104.6

2.0

%

96.4

3.4

%

8.2

0.4

%

Total change

258.7

5.0

%

68.9

2.4

%

189.8

8.3

%


$

5,399.2

$

2,933.3

54.3

%

$

2,465.9

45.7

%



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

For the year ended December 31, 2004, IAN experienced net
increases in revenue as compared to 2003 by $258.7, or 5.0%,
which was comprised of organic revenue growth of $104.6 and an
increase in foreign currency exchange rate changes of $194.1,
partially offset by a decrease attributable to net acquisitions
and divestitures of $40.0. The increase due to foreign currency
was primarily attributable to the strengthening of the Euro and
Pound Sterling in relation to the US Dollar. This increase
was partially offset by the net effect of divestitures and
acquisitions, primarily related to the sale of some small
businesses at McCann, Lowe, and Draft, and increased equity
ownership in two small businesses at Lowe.

The organic revenue increase was primarily driven by increases
at McCann, Draft, FCB, and Deutsch, partially offset by
decreases at Lowe. McCann experienced an organic revenue
increase as a result of new client wins and increased business
from existing clients, primarily in our US and European
agencies. Draft experienced an organic revenue increase mainly
in the US due to client wins and increased business by existing
clients, partially offset by poor economic conditions in Europe
and the closing of its field marketing business in 2003. FCB
experienced an organic revenue increase due to increased
spending by existing clients and client wins, partially offset
by a decrease in revenues as a result of clients lost during the
year, mainly in the US and Germany. Deutsch experienced organic
revenue growth stemming from new client wins and increased
business from existing clients. Lowe experienced an organic
revenue decline, primarily the result of client losses and
reduced business from major multinational clients.

SEGMENT OPERATING INCOME

For the Years Ended

December 31,



(Restated)

$ Change

% Change

Segment operating income

$

577.2

$

551.9

$

25.3

4.6

%

Operating margin

10.7

%

10.7

%

For the year ended December 31, 2004, IAN operating income
increased by $25.3, or 4.6%, which was a result of an increase
in revenue of $258.7, offset by an increase in salaries and
related expenses of $202.8 and increased office and general
expenses of $30.6.

Segment operating income growth, excluding the impact of foreign
currency and net effects of acquisitions and divestitures, was
primarily driven by increases at McCann, and to a lesser extent,
Deutsch and FCB, partially offset by a decrease at Lowe. McCann
experienced an organic revenue increase with essentially flat
operating expenses. Operating expenses at McCann reflect higher
compensation costs to support new client business and an
increase in contractual compensation payments made to
individuals for the achievement of specific operational targets
as part of certain prior year acquisition agreements. These
increases were offset by lower depreciation expense incurred as
a result of limited capital purchases, as well as a decrease in
bad debt expense due to improved collection of accounts
receivable. Deutsch and FCB experienced increases as a result of
organic revenue increases, partially offset by an increase in
operating expense related to increased employee incentives and
additional salaries and freelance costs to support the increase
in business activity. The decrease in operating income at Lowe
was the result of a significant organic revenue decrease
partially offset by moderate decreases in operating expenses.
The decrease in operating expenses at Lowe was the result of
lower headcount and reduced office space requirements.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

CONSTITUENT MANAGEMENT GROUP (“CMG”)

REVENUE

The components of the 2004 change were as follows:

Total

Domestic

International

$

% Change

$

% Change

% of Total

$

% Change

% of Total

2003 (Restated)

$

942.4

$

593.2

62.9

%

$

349.2

37.1

%

Foreign currency changes

34.4

3.7

%

—

—

34.4

9.9

%

Net acquisitions/divestitures

(11.0

)

(1.2

)%

(7.9

)

(1.3

)%

(3.1

)

(0.9

)%

Organic

(30.0

)

(3.2

)%

(9.3

)

(1.6

)%

(20.7

)

(5.9

)%

Total change

(6.6

)

(0.7

)%

(17.2

)

(2.9

)%

10.6

3.0

%


$

935.8

$

576.0

61.6

%

$

359.8

38.4

%

For the year ended December 31, 2004, CMG experienced
decreased revenues as compared to 2003 by $6.6, or 0.7%, which
was comprised of an organic revenue decrease of $30.0 and the
impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $11.0, partially
offset by an increase in foreign currency exchange rate changes
of $34.4. The increase due to foreign currency exchange rate was
primarily attributable to the strengthening of the Euro and
Pound Sterling in relation to the US Dollar. Net effects of
acquisitions and divestitures primarily related to the
disposition of three small businesses in 2004 and two small
businesses in 2003.

The organic revenue decline was primarily driven by a decrease
in the branding and sports marketing businesses, offset slightly
by growth in our public relations business.

SEGMENT OPERATING
INCOME

For the Years Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

(Restated)

Segment operating income

$

83.7

$

55.7

$

28.0

50.3

%

Operating margin

8.9

%

5.9

%

For the year ended December 31, 2004, CMG operating income
increased by $28.0, or 50.3%, which was the result of a $46.6
decrease in office and general expenses, offset by a $6.6
decrease in revenue and $12.0 increase in salary and related
expenses.

Segment operating income growth, excluding the impact of foreign
currency and net effects of acquisition and divestitures, was
primarily driven by an increase at sports marketing business,
partially offset by an increase in CMG corporate office expense.
While there was organic revenue decrease sports marketing
business operating expenses decreased at a higher rate than
organic revenue decrease due to a decrease related to charges
recorded by CMG in 2003 to secure certain sports television
rights. Increased corporate office expenses was driven by higher
expenses recorded for performance incentive awards as a result
of improved revenue performance and additional accruals for post
employment and other benefits for management personnel.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

CORPORATE AND OTHER

Amounts in corporate and other include corporate office expenses
and shared service center expenses, as well as certain other
centrally managed expenses which are not allocated to operating
divisions. The following significant expenses are included in
corporate and other:

Salaries, benefits and related expenses include salaries,
pension, the cost of medical, dental and other insurance
coverage and other compensation-related expenses for corporate
office employees. Professional fees include costs related to the
preparation for Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance, the financial
statement audit, legal counsel, information technology and other
consulting fees. Rent and depreciation includes rental expense
and depreciation of leasehold improvements for properties
occupied by corporate office employees. Bank fees relates to our
debt and credit facilities. The amounts of expenses allocated to
operating segments are calculated monthly based on a formula
that uses the weighted average net revenues of the operating
unit. The majority of the corporate costs including most of the
costs associated with internal control remediation and
compliance are not allocated back to operating segments.

The increase in corporate and other expense of $114.6 or 89.1%
is primarily related to the increase in professional fees and
salaries and related expenses. The increase in professional fees
primarily resulted from costs associated with complying with the
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also incurred
increased expenses for the development of systems and processes
related to our shared services initiatives. The increase in
payroll related expenses is due mainly to an increase in the use
of temporary employees in order to enhance monitoring controls
at the corporate office as well as to support our significant
ongoing efforts to achieve Sarbanes-Oxley compliance. Increased
headcount and expanded office space at the corporate office also
contributed to this increase. Also, certain contractual bonuses
for management increased as compared to prior year.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Consolidated Results of Operations — 2003
Compared to 2002

REVENUE

The components of the 2003 change were as follows:

Total

Domestic

International

$

% Change

$

% Change

% of Total

$

% Change

% of Total

2002 (Restated)

$

6,059.1

$

3,478.1

57.4

%

$

2,581.0

42.6

%

Foreign currency changes

293.7

4.8

%

—

—

293.7

11.4

%

Net acquisitions/divestitures

(11.8

)

(0.2

)%

8.8

0.3

%

(20.6

)

(0.8

%)

Organic

(179.3

)

(3.0

)%

(27.6

)

(0.8

)%

(151.7

)

(5.9

%)

Total change

102.6

1.7

%

(18.8

)

(0.5

)%

121.4

4.7

%

2003 (Restated)

$

6,161.7

$

3,459.3

56.1

%

$

2,702.4

43.9

%

For the year ended December 31, 2003, consolidated revenues
increased $102.6, or 1.7%, as compared to 2002, which was
attributable to foreign currency exchange rate changes of
$293.7, partially offset by the effect of net acquisitions and
dispositions of $11.8 and organic revenue decrease of $179.3.

The increase due to foreign currency changes was primarily
attributable to the strengthening of the Euro and Pound Sterling
in relation to the US Dollar. The net effect of
acquisitions and divestitures resulted largely from the sale of
a part of the Motorsports business during 2003.

During 2003, organic revenue decline of $179.3, or 3.0%, was
driven by decreases at IAN and CMG. The decrease at IAN was a
result of client losses as well as decreased business from
existing multi-national clients. The decrease at CMG was a
result of revenue declines in our public relations business,
driven by general economic factors in the US, partially offset
by increases in our events and sports marketing businesses.

OPERATING EXPENSES

For the Years Ended

December 31,

2003 (Restated)

2002 (Restated)

% of

% of

$

Revenue

$

Revenue

$ Change

% Change

Salaries and related expenses

$

3,500.6

56.8

%

$

3,396.7

56.1

%

$

103.9

3.1

%

Office and general expenses

2,225.7

36.1

%

2,248.7

37.1

%

(23.0

)

(1.0

)%

Restructuring charges

172.9

2.8

%

7.9

0.1

%

165.0

2088.6

%

Long-lived asset impairment and other charges

294.0

4.8

%

130.0

2.1

%

164.0

126.2

%

Total operating expenses

$

6,193.2

$

5,783.3

$

409.9

7.1

%



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Salaries and Related
Expenses

The components of the 2003 change were as follows:

Total

% of

$

% Change

Revenue

2002 (Restated)

$

3,396.7

56.1

%

Foreign currency changes

156.7

4.6

%

Net acquisitions/divestitures

(2.3

)

(0.1

)%

Organic

(50.5

)

(1.5

)%

Total change

103.9

3.1

%

2003 (Restated)

$

3,500.6

56.8

%

Salaries and related expenses are the largest components of
operating expenses and consist primarily of salaries and related
benefits and performance incentives. During 2003, salaries and
related expenses increased to 56.8% of revenues, compared to
56.1% in 2002. In 2003, salaries and related expenses decreased
$50.5, excluding the increase related to foreign currency
exchange rate changes of $156.7 and a decrease related to net
acquisitions and divestitures of $2.3.

Salaries and related expenses were impacted by changes in
foreign currency rates, attributable to the strengthening of the
Euro and Pound Sterling in relation to the US Dollar.

The decrease in salaries and related expenses, excluding the
impact of foreign currency and net acquisitions and
divestitures, was primarily the result of reduced payroll costs
across our company due to a decrease in headcount and
restructuring actions. This was partially offset by increased
performance incentive awards, employee benefits and related tax
expenses relating to some agencies.

Office and General
Expenses

The components of the 2003 change were as follows:

Total

% of

$

% Change

Revenue

2002 (Restated)

$

2,248.7

37.1

%

Foreign currency changes

121.1

5.4

%

Net acquisitions/divestitures

(13.4

)

(0.6

)%

Organic

(130.7

)

(5.8

)%

Total change

(23.0

)

(1.0

)%

2003 (Restated)

$

2,225.7

36.1

%

Office and general expenses primarily consists of rent, office
and equipment, depreciation, professional fees, other overhead
expenses and certain out-of-pocket expenses related to our
revenue. During 2003, office and general expenses decreased to
36.1% of revenues compared to 37.1% in 2002. In 2003, office and
general expenses decreased $130.7, excluding the increase
related to foreign currency exchange rate changes of $121.1 and
a decrease related to net acquisitions and divestitures of $13.4.

Office and general expenses was impacted by changes in foreign
currency rates, attributable to the strengthening of the Euro
and Pound Sterling in relation to the US Dollar.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The decrease in office and general expenses, excluding the
impact of foreign currency and net acquisition and divestitures
activity, was due mainly to the result of our efforts to control
office and general expenses. Additionally, lower occupancy and
overhead costs were recorded in 2003 due to our restructuring
program. These decreases were partially offset by charges
recorded by CMG in 2003 to secure certain sports television
rights. We also experienced a significant increase in
professional fees for work performed relating to securities
litigation, the SEC investigation, higher audit costs and costs
associated with preparing for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act, as well as the development of systems for our shared
services initiatives.

Restructuring Charges

During 2003 and 2002, we recorded net expense related to lease
termination and other exit costs and severance and termination
costs for the 2003 and 2001 restructuring programs of $172.9 and
$7.9, respectively, which included the impact of adjustments
resulting from changes in management’s estimates as
described below. A summary of the net (income) and expense by
segment is as follows:

Lease termination and other exit costs

2003 Program

Net expense related to lease termination and other exit costs
recorded for 2003 was $33.6, comprised of charges of $41.6,
partially offset by adjustments to management estimates of $8.0.
These charges related to vacating 55 offices in 2003, located
primarily in the US and Europe. Charges were recorded at net
present value and were net of estimated sublease rental income.
The discount related to lease terminations is being amortized
over the expected remaining term of the related lease.

In addition to amounts recorded as restructuring charges, we
recorded charges of $16.5 during 2003 related to the accelerated
amortization of leasehold improvements on properties included in
the 2003 program. These charges were included in office and
general expenses within the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

2001 Program

Net expense related to lease termination and other exit costs of
$13.6 and $6.6, recorded for 2003 and 2002 respectively,
resulted exclusively from the impact of adjustments to
management estimates. The 2001 program resulted in approximately
180 offices being vacated worldwide.

Adjustments to Estimates

Lease termination and other exit costs for the 2003 and 2001
restructuring programs included the net impact of adjustments
for changes in management estimates to increase the
restructuring reserves by $5.6 and $6.6 in 2003 and 2002,
respectively. Adjustments to management estimates of net lease
obligations included both increases and decreases to the
restructuring reserve balance as a result of several factors.
The significant factors were our negotiation of terms upon the
exit of leased properties, changes in sublease rental income and
utilization of previously vacated properties by certain of our
agencies due to improved economic conditions in certain markets,
all of which occurred during the period recorded.

Severance and termination costs

2003 Program

Net expense related to severance and termination costs of $125.8
recorded for 2003 was comprised of charges of $133.7, partially
offset by adjustments to management estimates of $7.9. These
charges related to a worldwide workforce reduction of
approximately 2,900 employees in 2003. The restructuring program
affected employee groups across all levels and functions,
including executive, regional and account management, and
administrative, creative and media production personnel. The
majority of the severance charges related to the U.S. and
Europe, with the remainder in Asia and Latin America.

2001 Program

Net (income) and expense related to severance and termination
costs of ($0.1) and $1.3, recorded for 2003 and 2002,
respectively, resulted exclusively from the impact of
adjustments to management estimates. The 2001 program related to
a worldwide reduction of approximately 7,000 employees.

Adjustments to Estimates

Severance and termination costs associated with the 2003 and
2001 restructuring programs included the net impact of
adjustments for changes in management estimates to decrease the
restructuring reserve by $8.0 in 2003 and increase the
restructuring reserve by $1.3 in 2002. Adjustments to management
estimates of severance and termination obligations included both
increases and decreases to the restructuring reserve balance as
a result of several factors. The significant factors were the
decrease in the number of terminated employees, change in
amounts paid to terminated employees and change in estimates of
taxes and restricted stock payments related to terminated
employees, all of which occurred during the period recorded.

For additional information, see Note 5 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Long-Lived Asset Impairment and Other Charges

The following table summarizes the long-lived asset impairment
and other charges for 2003 and 2002:

For the Years Ended December 31,



IAN

CMG

Motorsports

Total

IAN

Motorsports

Total

(Restated)

(Restated)

Goodwill impairment

$

0.4

$

218.0

$

—

$

218.4

$

2.9

$

82.1

$

85.0

Fixed asset impairment

2.3

—

63.8

66.1

—

33.0

33.0

Other

9.1

0.4

—

9.5

—

12.0

12.0

Total

$

11.8

$

218.4

$

63.8

$

294.0

$

2.9

$

127.1

$

130.0

Impairments

CMG

— We recorded an impairment charge
of $218.0 to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at Octagon.
The Octagon impairment charge reflects the reduction of the
unit’s fair value due principally to poor financial
performance in 2003 and lower than expected future financial
performance. Specifically, there was significant pricing
pressure in both overseas and domestic TV rights distribution,
declining fees from athlete representation, and lower than
anticipated proceeds from committed future events, including
ticket revenue and sponsorship.

Motorsports

— We recorded fixed asset
impairment charges of $63.8, consisting of $38.0 in connection
with the sale of a business comprised of the four owned auto
racing circuits, $9.6 related to the sale of other Motorsports
entities, and a fixed asset impairment of $16.2 for outlays that
Motorsports was contractually required to spend to improve the
racing facilities.

Impairments

Motorsports

— Beginning in the second
quarter of 2002 and continuing in subsequent quarters, certain
Motorsports businesses experienced significant operational
difficulties. Some of the impairment indicators included
significantly lower than anticipated attendance at the marquee
British Grand Prix race in July 2002 and a change in management
at Motorsports in the third quarter of 2002. We performed an
impairment test and concluded that certain asset groupings of
Motorsports had a book value that exceeded their fair market
value. As a result, we recognized an impairment loss of $127.1,
which is composed of $82.1 of goodwill impairment, $33.0 of
fixed asset impairment and $12.0 of other impairment.

For additional information, see Note 8 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

EXPENSE AND OTHER
INCOME

For the Years Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

(Restated)

(Restated)

Interest expense

$

(207.0

)

$

(158.7

)

$

(48.3

)

30.4

%

Debt prepayment penalty

(24.8

)

—

(24.8

)

—

Interest income

39.3

30.6

8.7

28.4

%

Investment impairments

(71.5

)

(40.3

)

(31.2

)

77.4

%

Litigation charges

(127.6

)

—

(127.6

)

—

Other income

50.3

8.3

42.0

506.0

%

Total

$

(341.3

)

$

(160.1

)

$

(181.2

)

113.2

%

Interest Expense

In 2003, interest expense increased by $48.3 to $207, primarily
due to the issuance in March 2003 of $800.0 of
4.50% Convertible Senior Notes maturing 2023. These
proceeds were invested in April 2003, at which time the proceeds
were used for the settlement of the tender offer for the
Zero-Coupon Convertible Senior Notes.

Debt Prepayment
Penalty

During the third quarter of 2003, we repaid our borrowings under
the Prudential Agreements, repaying $142.5 principal amount and
incurring a prepayment penalty of $24.8.

Interest Income

In 2003, interest income increased by $8.7 to $39.3 primarily
due to higher cash balances resulting from the issuance of the
4.50% Convertible Senior Notes in March 2003, the proceeds
from the sale of NFO in July 2003, and the proceeds from the
equity offerings in December 2003.

Investment
Impairments

During 2003, we recorded $71.5 of investment impairment charges
related to 20 investments. The charge related principally to
investments in Fortune Promo 7 of $9.5 in the Middle East, Koch
Tavares of $7.7 in Latin America, Daiko of $10.0 in Japan, Roche
Macaulay Partners of $7.9 in Canada, Springer & Jacoby
of $6.5 in Germany and GlobalHue of $6.9 in the US. The majority
of the impairment charges resulted from deteriorating economic
conditions in the countries in which the agencies operate, due
to the loss of one or several key clients.

During 2002, we recorded $40.3 of investment impairment charges
primarily related to Octagon investments. The largest component
of the write-off was a $28.4 charge, related to an investment in
a German soccer team/franchise, based on current and projected
operating results.

Litigation Charges

During 2003, we recorded litigation charges of $127.6 for
various legal matters, of which $115.0 related to a tentative
settlement of the class action shareholder suits discussed in
Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Under the
terms of the settlement, we were required to pay $20.0 in



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

cash and issue 6.6 shares of our common stock. The ultimate
amount of the litigation charge related to the settlement was to
be dependent upon our stock price at the time of the final
settlement, which took place in December 2004.

Other Income

In 2003, other income of $50.3 included approximately
11.0 shares of Modem Media sold for net proceeds of
approximately $57.0 in December, resulting in a pre-tax gain of
$30.3. Also in December, we sold all of the approximately
11.7 shares of TNS we had acquired through the sale of NFO,
for approximately $42.0 of net proceeds. A pre-tax gain of $13.3
was recorded.

OTHER ITEMS

Income Taxes

For the Years Ended

December 31,



(Restated)

(Restated)

Provision for income taxes

$

242.7

$

106.4

Effective tax rate

65.1%

91.9%

Our effective income tax rate was negatively impacted for 2003
and 2002 by the establishment of valuation allowances, as
described below, restructuring charges, and non-deductible
long-lived asset impairment charges. The difference between the
effective tax rate and the statutory federal rate of 35% is also
due to state and local taxes and the effect of non-US operations.

Valuation Allowance

During 2003, a valuation allowance of $111.4 was established in
continuing operations on existing deferred tax assets and losses
with no benefits. The total valuation allowance as of
December 31, 2003 was $252.6.

Minority Interest and
Unconsolidated Affiliates

For the Years Ended

December 31,



(Restated)

(Restated)

Income applicable to minority interests

$

(27.0

)

$

(30.0

)

Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates, net of tax

$

2.4

$

5.9

The income applicable to minority interests was virtually
unchanged. The decrease in equity in net income of
unconsolidated affiliates, was primarily due to a decrease in
earnings in unconsolidated affiliates in Europe and Brazil.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

NET INCOME (LOSS)

For the Years Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

(Restated)

(Restated)

Loss from continuing operations

$

(640.1

)

$

(14.8

)

$

(625.3

)

4225.0

%

Income from discontinued operations net of taxes of $8.3 and
    $22.4, respectively

101.0

31.5

69.5

220.6

%

Net income (loss) applicable to common stockholders

$

(539.1

)

$

16.7

$

(555.8

)

(3328.1

)%

Loss from Continuing Operations

We recorded a loss from continuing operations in 2003 of $640.1
as compared to a loss from continuing operations in 2002 of
$14.8, a change of $625.3. This significant increase in our net
loss was due to higher operating expenses of $409.9, and higher
expense and other income of $181.2. Significant increases in our
operating expenses were due to restructuring charges and
long-lived asset impairment and other charges, which increased
$165.0 and $164.0, respectively, from the prior year. Litigation
charges of $127.6 contributed to the increase in expense and
other income.

Income from Discontinued Operations

As discussed in Consolidated Results of Operations —
2004 Compared to 2003 and in Note 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, we have recorded the impact of our sale of
NFO in income from discontinued operations. We completed the
sale of NFO in 2003. NFO is classified as discontinued
operations and the results of operations and cash flows of NFO
have been removed from our results of continuing operations and
cash flows for all periods.

Segment Results of Operations — 2003 Compared to

As discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, we have three reporting segments: our operating
divisions, IAN, CMG and Motorsports. We also report results for
the corporate group. Other than long-lived asset impairment and
contract termination costs, the operating results of Motorsports
are not material to consolidated results, and therefore are not
discussed in detail below. The following table summarizes
revenue and operating income by segment:

For the Years Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

(Restated)

(Restated)

Revenue:

IAN

$

5,140.5

$

4,994.7

$

145.8

2.9

%

CMG

942.4

970.8

(28.4

)

(2.9

)%

Motorsports

78.8

93.6

(14.8

)

(15.8

)%

Consolidated revenue

$

6,161.7

$

6,059.1

$

102.6

1.7

%



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

For the Years Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

(Restated)

(Restated)

Segment operating income (loss):

IAN

$

551.9

$

550.7

$

1.2

(0.2

)%

CMG

55.7

47.5

8.2

17.3

%

Motorsports

(43.5

)

(82.2

)

38.7

(47.1

)%

Corporate and other

(128.7

)

(102.3

)

(26.4

)

25.8

%

For the Years Ended December 31,

2003 (Restated)

2002 (Restated)

IAN

CMG

Motorsports

Corporate

Total

IAN

CMG

Motorsports

Corporate

Total

Reconciliation to segment operating income:

Consolidated operating income (loss)

$

401.7

$

(197.2

)

$

(107.7

)

$

(128.3

)

$

(31.5

)

$

534.7

$

43.0

$

(209.3

)

$

(92.6

)

$

275.8

Adjustments:

Restructuring charges

(138.4

)

(34.5

)

(0.4

)

0.4

(172.9

)

(13.1

)

(4.5

)

—

9.7

(7.9

)

Long lived asset impairment and other charges:

(11.8

)

(218.4

)

(63.8

)

—

(294.0

)

(2.9

)

—

(127.1

)

—

(130.0

)

Segment operating income (loss)

$

551.9

$

55.7

$

(43.5

)

$

(128.7

)

$

550.7

$

47.5

$

(82.2

)

$

(102.3

)

INTEGRATED AGENCY NETWORKS (“IAN”)

REVENUE

The components of the 2003 change were as follows:

Domestic

International

Total

% of

% of

$

% Change

$

% Change

Total

$

% Change

Total

2002 (Restated)

$

4,994.7

$

2,857.1

57.2

%

$

2,137.6

42.8

%

Foreign currency changes

244.6

4.9

%

—

0.0

%

244.6

11.4

%

Net acquisitions/divestitures

9.9

0.2

%

9.6

0.3

%

0.3

0.0

%

Organic

(108.7

)

(2.2

)%

(2.3

)

(0.1

)%

(106.4

)

(5.0

)%

Total change

145.8

2.9

%

7.3

0.3

%

138.5

6.5

%

2003 (Restated)

$

5,140.5

$

2,864.4

55.7

%

$

2,276.1

44.3

%

For the year ended December 31, 2003, IAN experienced a net
increase in revenue as compared to 2002 by $145.8, or 2.9%,
which was due to the effect of an increase in foreign currency
exchange rate changes of $244.6 and net acquisitions and
divestitures of $9.9, offset by an organic revenue decrease of
$108.7. The increase due to foreign currency rate changes was
primarily attributable to the strengthening of the Euro and
Pound Sterling in relation to the US Dollar. The slight
increase resulting from net acquisitions and divestitures
primarily related to a small acquisition at McCann.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The organic revenue decrease was primarily driven by the results
of Lowe. Lowe reported an organic revenue decrease as compared
to 2002, due to the loss of local clients in certain
international markets, as well as a decline in business from
existing multinational clients in certain European markets.

SEGMENT OPERATING
INCOME

For the Years Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

(Restated)

(Restated)

Segment operating income

$

551.9

$

550.7

$

1.2

0.2

%

Operating margin

10.7

%

11.1

%

For the year ended December 31, 2003, IAN operating income
increased by $1.2, or 0.2%, which was due to an increase in
revenue of $145.8, offset by increased salaries and related
expenses of $142.7 and an increase of $1.8 in office and general
expense.

Segment operating income increase, excluding the impact of
foreign currency and net effects of acquisitions and
divestitures, was primarily driven by increases at McCann and
Initiative Media and decreases at FCB and Campbell-Ewald. At
FCB, the organic revenue increase was offset by significantly
higher operating expenses. Increased operating expenses at FCB
primarily resulted from a rise in performance incentive awards,
and higher rent expense associated with excess space. At
Campbell-Ewald, operating expenses rose more than the organic
revenue increase. Campbell-Ewald experienced higher expenses in
salaries and related benefits for increased headcount to support
organic revenue growth. McCann experienced relatively flat
revenues with a decline in operating expenses. Operating
expenses declined primarily due to lower compensation from a
reduced headcount and lower bad debts. Initiative Media
experienced an organic revenue increase, while operating
expenses remained relatively flat.

CONSTITUENT MANAGEMENT
GROUP (“CMG”)

REVENUE

The components of the 2003 change were as follows:

Total

Domestic

International

$%

Change

$

% Change

% of Total

$

% Change

% of Total

2002 (Restated)

$

970.8

$

620.1

63.9

%

$

350.7

36.1

%

Foreign currency changes

38.6

4.0

%

—

—

38.6

11.0

%

Net acquisitions/ divestitures

(1.8

)

(0.2

)%

(0.2

)

0.0

%

(1.6

)

(0.5

)%

Organic

(65.2

)

(6.7

)%

(26.7

)

(4.3

)%

(38.5

)

(11.0

)%

Total change

(28.4

)

(2.9

)%

(26.9

)

(4.3

)%

(1.5

)

(0.4

)%

2003 (Restated)

$

942.4

$

593.2

62.9

%

$

349.2

37.1

%

For the year ended December 31, 2003, CMG experienced a net
decrease in revenues as compared to 2002 of $28.4, or 2.9%,
which was comprised of an organic revenue decrease of $65.2 and
the impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $1.8, offset by
an increase due to foreign currency exchange rate changes of
$38.6. The effect of currency exchange rate was primarily
attributable to the strengthening of the Euro and Pound Sterling
in relation to the US Dollar.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Organic revenue decline resulted from reduced demand for our
services within our public relations business in the US and
international markets as well as decreased demand for other
project related business, offset partially by modest gains in
our events and sports marketing business.

Segment Operating
Income

For the Years Ended

December 31,



$ Change

% Change

(Restated)

(Restated)

Segment operating income

$

55.7

$

47.5

$

8.2

17.2%

Operating margin

5.9

%

4.9

%

For the year ended December 31, 2003, CMG operating income
increased by $8.2, or 17.2%, which was the result of a $31.0
decrease in salary and related expenses and a $5.6 decrease in
office and general expenses, offset by a $28.4 decrease in
revenue.

Segment operating income growth, excluding the impact of foreign
currency and net effects of the acquisitions and divestitures,
was primarily driven by increases in the branding and public
relations businesses, offset by decreased operating income in
sports marketing. Both brand and public relations businesses
experienced organic revenue declines as well as significantly
decreased operating expenses. The decreased operating expenses
in branding were primarily driven by a decrease in bad debt
expense as a result of improved collection activity, decreased
payroll related expenses due to lower headcount as a result of
restructuring actions taken in the public relations and branding
business, as well as a decrease in expenses recorded for
performance incentive awards. Operating income declined at
Octagon despite organic revenue growth as a result of
significant increases in operating expenses. Operating expenses
in sports marketing rose as a result of certain sports
television rights.

CORPORATE AND OTHER

Amounts in corporate and other include corporate office expenses
and shared service center expenses, as well as certain other
centrally managed expenses which are not allocated to each
operating division. The following significant expenses are
included in corporate and other:



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Salaries and related expenses include salaries, insurance,
pension and bonus expense for Corporate Office employees.
Professional fees include costs related to the preparation for
Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance, financial statement audit, legal,
information technology and other consulting fees. Rent and
depreciation includes rental expense and depreciation of
leasehold improvements for properties occupied by corporate
office employees. Bank fees relate to debt and credit facilities
managed by the Corporate Office. The amount of expense allocated
to operating segments is calculated monthly based on a formula
that uses the weighted average revenues of the operating unit.
The majority of the corporate costs including most of the costs
associated with internal control remediation and compliance are
not allocated back to operating segment.

The increase in corporate and other expense of $26.4 or 25.8% is
primarily related to an increase in professional fees increased
as a result of higher legal fees incurred from securities
litigation and SEC investigation, higher audit costs and costs
associated with preparing for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act. In addition, salaries, benefits, and related expenses
increased as a result of accruals for performance incentive
awards.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

CASH FLOW OVERVIEW

Operating cash flow

Our cash provided by operating activities was $455.5, compared
to $499.7 in 2003 and $878.9 in 2002. The decrease in cash
provided by operating activities in 2004 was primarily
attributable to the decrease in year-over-year changes in
receivables and liabilities. The decrease in cash provided by
operating activities in 2003 was primarily attributable to the
lower earnings levels in 2003 resulting from continued softness
in client demand for advertising and marketing services and our
restructuring program.

We conduct media buying on behalf of clients, which affects our
working capital and operating cash flow. In most of our
businesses, we collect funds from our clients which we use, on
their behalf, to pay production costs and media costs. The
amounts involved substantially exceed our revenues, and the
current assets and current liabilities on our balance sheet
reflect these pass-through arrangements. Our assets include both
cash received and accounts receivable from customers for these
pass-through arrangements, while our liabilities include amounts
owed on behalf of customers to media and production suppliers.
Generally, we pay production and media charges only after we
have received funds from our clients, and our risk from client
nonpayment has historically not been significant.

Funding requirements

Our most significant funding requirements include:
non-cancelable operating lease obligations, capital
expenditures, payments in respect of past acquisitions, interest
payments, preferred stock dividends and taxes. We have not paid
dividends on our common stock since 2002.

We have no scheduled maturities of long-term debt until 2008, as
a result of transactions undertaken in 2005. Our outstanding
debt and preferred stock are described below under Long-Term
Debt and Convertible Preferred Stock. In January 2004, we
redeemed $250.0 of debt. In November 2004, we refinanced $250.0
of debt through November 2009 and $350.0 of debt through
November 2014, and in July 2005 we refinanced $250.0 of debt due
to mature in 2005 through July 2008. These transactions are
described below under Redemption and Repurchase of Long-Term
Debt.

Our capital expenditures are primarily to upgrade computer and
telecommunications systems and to modernize offices. Our
principal bank credit facility as amended limits the amounts we
can spend on



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

capital expenditures in any calendar year to $210.0. Our capital
expenditures were $194.0 in 2004, $159.6 in 2003 and $171.4 in
2002.

We acquired a large number of agencies through 2001, but in
recent years the number and value of acquisitions have been
significantly less. Cash paid for new acquisitions was
approximately $14.6 in 2004, $4.0 in 2003 and $48.2 in 2002.
However, under the terms of certain of our past acquisitions, we
have long-term obligations to pay additional consideration or to
purchase additional equity interests in certain consolidated or
unconsolidated subsidiaries if specified conditions are met.
Some of the consideration under these arrangements is in shares
of our common stock, but most is in cash. We made cash payments
for past acquisitions of $161.7 in 2004, $221.2 in 2003 and
$240.0 in 2002. Our projected obligations for 2005 and beyond
are set forth below under Contractual Obligations.

Certain media companies in various international locations
require advertising agencies to post a letter of credit to
support commitments to purchase media placements. Primarily, we
obtain these letters of credit from our principal bank syndicate
under the credit facilities described under Credit Arrangements
below. The outstanding amount of letters of credit was $165.4
and $160.1 as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
These letters of credit have not been drawn upon in recent years.

Sources of funds

At December 31, 2004 our total of cash and cash equivalents
plus short-term marketable securities was $1,970.4. The total
was $2,067.0 at December 31, 2003, which included proceeds
from securities sold in December 2003 that we used in January
2004 to retire $250.0 of outstanding debt.

We have financed ourselves through access to the capital markets
by issuing debt securities, convertible preferred stock and
common stock. Our outstanding debt securities and convertible
preferred stock are described under Long-Term Debt, Convertible
Senior Notes and Convertible Preferred Stock below. As a result
of the disclaimer of opinion by PwC on Management’s
Assessment on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, the SEC
considers our SEC filings not to be current for purposes of
certain of the SEC’s rules. As a result, we are unable to
use “short-form” registration (registration that
allows us to incorporate by reference our Form 10-K,
Form 10-Q and other SEC reports into our registration
statements) or, for most purposes, shelf registration, until
twelve complete months have passed after we file an annual
report containing an audit report on internal control over
financial reporting that does not disclaim an opinion.

In July 2005, we issued $250.0 of Floating Rate Notes due 2008
in a private placement to refinance maturing debt, as described
below.

We have committed and uncommitted credit lines and the terms of
our revolving credit facilities are described below. We have not
drawn on our committed facilities during 2004 or 2003, although
we use them to issue letters of credit, as described above. Our
outstanding borrowings under uncommitted credit facilities were
$67.8 and $69.8 as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. We use uncommitted credit lines for working
capital needs at some of our operations outside the United
States. If we lose access to these credit lines, we may be
required to provide funding directly to some overseas
operations. We maintain our committed credit facilities
primarily as stand-by short-term liquidity.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Liquidity outlook

We expect our operating cash flow and cash on hand to be
sufficient to meet our anticipated operating requirements for
the next twelve months. We have no significant scheduled amounts
of long-term debt due until 2008. We continue to have a level of
cash and cash equivalents that we consider to be conservative.
We consider this approach to be important as we address the
consequences of the restatement, including increased cash
requirements resulting, among other things, from higher
professional fees and from the liabilities we have recognized in
the restatement. Accordingly we may seek to raise additional
financing, if market conditions applicable to our Company permit
us to do so on favorable terms, in order to enhance our
financial flexibility. There can be no assurance that such
financing will be completed on terms that are favorable to us,
if at all.

Substantially all of our operating cash flow is generated by
subsidiaries. Our liquid assets are held primarily at the
holding company level, but also at our larger subsidiaries. The
legal or contractual restrictions on our ability to transfer
funds within the group, whether in the form of dividends, loans
or advances, do not significantly reduce our financial
flexibility.

FINANCING

Long-Term Debt

A summary of our long-term debt is as follows:

Exposure to interest rate movements is reduced by interest rate
swap agreements. As a result of these agreements, the effective
interest rate for the 6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes differs
from its stated rate.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Annual repayments of long-term debt as of December 31, 2004
are scheduled as follows:


$

258.1


3.9


2.1


1.6


250.5

Thereafter

1,677.9

Total long-term debt

$

2,194.1

Redemption and Repurchase of
Long-Term Debt

In January 2004, we redeemed the 1.80% Convertible
Subordinated Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $250.0
at maturity at an aggregate price of approximately $246.0, which
included the principal amount of the Notes plus original issue
discount and accrued interest to the redemption date. To redeem
these Convertible Subordinated Notes, we used approximately
$246.0 of the net proceeds from the 2003 Common and Mandatory
Convertible Preferred Stock offerings as discussed below.

In November 2004, we tendered for $250.0 of the $500.0
outstanding face value 7.875% Senior Unsecured Notes at an
aggregate price of approximately $263.1, which included the
principal amount of the Notes plus accrued interest to the
tender date. A prepayment premium of $9.8 was recorded on the
early retirement of $250.0 of these Notes. In December 2004, we
redeemed our outstanding 1.87% Convertible Subordinated
Notes with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $361.0
at maturity at an aggregate price of approximately $346.8, which
included the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued interest
to the redemption date. To tender for the 7.875% Senior
Unsecured Notes and redeem the 1.87% Convertible
Subordinated Notes, we used approximately $250.0 and $350.0,
respectively, of the net proceeds from the sale and issuance in
November 2004 of the 5.40% Senior Unsecured Notes due
November 2009 and 6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due November
2014.

In August 2005, we redeemed the remainder of the outstanding
7.875% Senior Unsecured Notes with an aggregate principal
amount of approximately $250.0 at maturity at an aggregate price
of approximately $258.6, which included the principal amount of
the Notes plus accrued interest to the redemption date. To
redeem these Notes we used the proceeds from the sale and
issuance in July 2005 of $250.0 Floating Rate Notes due in July
2008.

Consent Solicitation

In March 2005, we completed a consent solicitation to amend the
indentures governing five series of our outstanding public debt
to provide, among other things, that our failure to file with
the trustee our SEC reports, including our 2004 Annual Report on
Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports for the first and second
quarter of 2005 on Form 10-Q, would not constitute a
default under the indentures until September 30, 2005.

The indenture governing our 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes was
also amended to provide for: (1) an extension from
March 15, 2005 to September 15, 2009 of the date on or
after which we may redeem the 4.50% Notes and (2) an additional
“make-whole” adjustment to the conversion rate in the
event of a change of control meeting specified conditions.

Convertible Senior
Notes

The 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes
(“4.50% Notes”) are convertible to common stock
at a conversion price of $12.42 per share, subject to
adjustment in specified circumstances. They are convertible at
any time if the average price of our common stock for 20 trading
days immediately



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

preceding the conversion date is greater than or equal to a
specified percentage, beginning at 120% in 2003 and declining
0.5% each year until it reaches 110% at maturity, of the
conversion price. They are also convertible, regardless of the
price of our common stock, if: (i) we call the
4.50% Notes for redemption; (ii) we make specified
distributions to shareholders; (iii) we become a party to a
consolidation, merger or binding share exchange pursuant to
which our common stock would be converted into cash or property
(other than securities) or (iv) the credit ratings assigned
to the 4.50% Notes by any two of Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings are
lower than Ba2, BB and BB, respectively, or the 4.50% Notes
are no longer rated by at least two of these ratings services.
Because of our current credit ratings, the 4.50% Notes are
currently convertible into approximately 64.4 shares of our
common stock.

We, at the investors’ option, may be required to redeem the
4.50% Notes for cash on March 15, 2008 and may also be
required to redeem the 4.50% Notes at the investors’
option on March 15, 2013 and March 15, 2018, for cash
or common stock or a combination of both, at our election.
Additionally, investors may require us to redeem the
4.50% Notes in the event of certain change of control
events that occur prior to March 15, 2008, for cash or
common stock or a combination of both, at our election. If at
any time on or after March 13, 2003 we pay cash dividends
on our common stock, we will pay contingent interest in an
amount equal to 100% of the per share cash dividend paid on the
common stock multiplied by the number of shares of common stock
issuable upon conversion of the 4.50% Notes. At our option,
we may redeem the 4.50% Notes on or after
September 15, 2009 for cash. The redemption price in each
of these instances will be 100% of the principal amount of the
notes being redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
The 4.50% Notes also provide for an additional
“make-whole” adjustment to the conversion rate in the
event of a change of control meeting specified conditions.

Credit Arrangements

We have committed and uncommitted lines of credit with various
banks that permit borrowings at variable interest rates. At
December 31, 2004 and 2003, there were no borrowings under
our committed facilities, however, there were borrowings under
the uncommitted facilities made by several of our international
subsidiaries totaling $67.8 and $69.8, respectively. We have
guaranteed the repayment of some of these borrowings by our
subsidiaries. The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding
balances under the uncommitted short-term facilities at
December 31, 2004 and 2003 was approximately 5% in each
year. A summary of our credit facilities is as follows:

*

Amount available is reduced by $165.4 of letters of credit
    issued under the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility at
    December 31, 2004.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

**

Amount available is reduced by $160.1 of letters of credit
    issued under the 364-Day Revolving Credit Facility at
    December 31, 2003.

Our primary bank credit agreements are two credit facilities, a
364-day revolving credit facility (“364-Day Revolving
Credit Facility”) and a three-year revolving credit
facility (“Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility” and,
together with the 364-Day Revolving Credit Facility, the
“Revolving Credit Facilities”). The 364-Day Revolving
Credit Facility provides for borrowings of up to $250.0 and
expires on September 30, 2005. The Three-Year Revolving
Credit Facility expires on May 9, 2007 and provides for
borrowings of up to $450.0, of which $200.0 is available for the
issuance of letters of credit.

Our Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility was amended and
restated as of September 27, 2005. The effectiveness of the
amended Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility is subject to
certain conditions as described below.

The terms of the amended Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility do
not permit us: (i) to make cash acquisitions in excess of
$50.0 until October 2006, or thereafter in excess of $50.0 until
expiration of the agreement in May 2007, subject to increases
equal to the net cash proceeds received in the applicable period
from any disposition of assets; (ii) to make capital
expenditures in excess of $210.0 annually; (iii) to
repurchase or to declare or to pay dividends on our capital
stock (except for any convertible preferred stock, convertible
trust preferred instrument or similar security, which includes
our outstanding 5.40% Series A Mandatory Convertible
Preferred), except that we may repurchase our capital stock in
connection with the exercise of options by our employees or with
proceeds contemporaneously received from an issue of new shares
of our capital stock; and (iv) to incur new debt at our
subsidiaries, other than unsecured debt incurred in the ordinary
course of business, which may not exceed $10.0 in the aggregate
with respect to our US subsidiaries.

The amended Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility also sets forth
revised financial covenants. These require that, as of the
fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005 and each fiscal
quarter thereafter, we maintain (i) an interest coverage
ratio of not less than that set forth opposite the corresponding
quarter in the table below:

Fiscal Quarter Ending

Ratio

September 30, 2005

2.15 to 1

December 31, 2005

1.75 to 1

March 31, 2006

1.85 to 1

June 30, 2006

1.45 to 1

September 30, 2006

1.75 to 1

December 31, 2006

2.15 to 1

March 31, 2007

2.50 to 1



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

(ii) a debt to EBITDA ratio of not greater than that set
forth opposite the corresponding quarter in the table below:

Fiscal Quarter Ending

Ratio

September 30, 2005

5.20 to 1

December 31, 2005

6.30 to 1

March 31, 2006

5.65 to 1

June 30, 2006

6.65 to 1

September 30, 2006

5.15 to 1

December 31, 2006

4.15 to 1

March 31, 2007

3.90 to 1

and (iii) minimum levels of EBITDA for the four fiscal
quarters then ended of not less than that set forth opposite the
corresponding quarter in the table below:

Four Fiscal Quarters Ending

Amount

September 30, 2005

$

435.0

December 31, 2005

$

360.0

March 31, 2006

$

400.0

June 30, 2006

$

340.0

September 30, 2006

$

440.0

December 31, 2006

$

545.0

March 31, 2007

$

585.0

The terms used in these ratios, including EBITDA, interest
coverage and debt, are subject to specific definitions set forth
in the agreement. Under the definition set forth in the
Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility, EBITDA is determined by
adding to net income or loss the following items: interest
expense, income tax expense, depreciation expense, amortization
expense, and certain specified cash payments and non-cash
charges subject to limitations on time and amount set forth in
the agreement. We expect to be in compliance with all covenants
under our Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility, as amended and
restated, for the next twelve months.

Before agreeing to the amendments, the lenders reviewed
preliminary drafts of the Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this Annual Report and in our quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q for the first two quarters of 2005. One condition
to effectiveness of the amendments is that we have not received,
on or before October 4, 2005 notice from the lenders that
have a majority in amount of the revolving credit commitments
that the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report
and our quarterly reports, and the financial data contained in
the notes thereto, are not substantially similar to the
preliminary consolidated financial statements we provided to
them. If we receive such a notice, the amended agreement will
not become effective. In that event, we will continue to be
subject to the financial covenants that were previously
applicable under the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility, as
amended in June 2005 with respect to periods through the second
quarter of 2005. We were in compliance with those covenants
through June 30, 2005, but there can be no assurance that
we will be in compliance when we report financial information
through the third quarter of 2005.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Credit Agency Ratings

Our current long-term debt credit ratings as of
September 30, 2005 are Baa3 with negative outlook, BB- with
negative outlook and B+ with negative outlook, as reported by
Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, respectively. Although a ratings downgrade by
any of the ratings agencies will not trigger an acceleration of
any of our indebtedness, a downgrade may adversely affect our
ability to access capital and would likely result in more
stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of
any new indebtedness.

Our credit ratings at year-end 2004 and 2003 were as follows:

December 31,



Senior

Senior

Unsecured

Subordinated*

Outlook

Unsecured

Subordinated

Outlook

Moody’s

Baa3

—

Stable

Baa3

Ba1

Credit watch Negative

Standard & Poor’s

BB+

—

Credit watch Negative

BB+

BB-

Stable

Fitch

BB+

—

Stable

BB+

BB-

Stable

*

As of December 31, 2004, we had no Subordinated debt
    outstanding.

Convertible Preferred Stock

In December 2003 we issued 7.5 shares of Series A
Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (“Preferred
Stock”). The Preferred Stock carries a dividend yield of
5.375%. On the automatic conversion date in December 2006, each
share of the Preferred Stock will convert, subject to
adjustment, to between 3.0358 and 3.7037 shares of common
stock, depending on the then-current market price of our common
stock. Under certain circumstances, the Preferred Stock may be
converted prior to maturity at our option or at the option of
the holders.

Payment of Dividends

We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since
December of 2002. As previously discussed, our ability to
declare or pay dividends on common stock is currently restricted
by the terms of our Revolving Credit Facilities. We pay annual
dividends on each share of Preferred Stock in the amount of
$2.6875. Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and
are payable on each payment date to the extent that dividends
are not restricted under the Revolving Credit Facilities and
assets are legally available to pay dividends. In addition to
the stated annual dividend, if at any time on or before
December 16, 2006, we pay a cash dividend on our common
stock, the holders of Preferred Stock participate in such
distributions via adjustments to the conversion ratio, thereby
increasing the number of common shares into which the Preferred
Stock will ultimately convert.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The following summarizes our estimated contractual obligations
at December 31, 2004, and the effect on our liquidity and
cash flow in future periods:






Thereafter

Total

Long-term debt

$

258.1

$

3.9

$

2.1

$

1.6

$

250.5

$

1,677.9

$

2,194.1

Interest payments

$

133.0

$

125.5

$

125.5

$

121.0

$

107.7

$

667.9

$

1,280.6

Non-cancelable operating lease obligations

$

269.9

$

243.5

$

212.9

$

186.5

$

155.5

$

828.4

$

1,896.7



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Restatement Related Matters

As a result of the restatement review (discussed more fully in
Note 2), the Company has recorded additional liabilities
with regard to Vendor Discounts or Credits, Internal
Investigations and International Compensation Agreements which
amount to $242.3, $114.8 (including $37.5 of additional vendor
discounts or credits) and $40.3, respectively, as of
December 31, 2004. The Company believes that these amounts
represent our best estimates of our ultimate liabilities in each
of these cases based on facts and documents reviewed and are
sufficient to cover any obligations that we may have to our
clients, vendors, and various governmental organizations in the
jurisdictions involved. The Company estimates it will pay
approximately $250 related to these liabilities over the
next 24 months.

We have contingent obligations under guarantees of certain
obligations of our subsidiaries (“parent company
guarantees”) relating principally to lines of credit,
guarantees of certain media payables and operating leases of
certain subsidiaries. The amount of such parent company
guarantees was approximately $601.8 and $658.0 at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In the event of
non-payment by the subsidiary of the obligations covered by the
guarantees, we would be obliged to pay the amounts. As of
December 31, 2004, there are no assets pledged as security
for amounts owed or guaranteed.

We have not included obligations under our pension and
postretirement benefit plans in the contractual obligations
table. Our funding policy regarding our funded pension plan is
to contribute amounts necessary to satisfy minimum pension
funding requirements plus such additional amounts from time to
time as are determined to be appropriate to improve the
plans’ funded status. The funded status of our pension
plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on
invested assets, level of market interest rates and levels of
voluntary contributions to the plans. Declines in long-term
interest rates have had a negative impact on the funded status
of the plans. During 2004, we made voluntary cash contributions
of $32.1 to our domestic pension plans only. We can contribute
cash to these plans at our discretion; however we do not expect
to make any contributions to our postretirement benefits plans
or domestic pension plans during 2005. We expect to contribute
$24.3 to our international plans in 2005.

We have structured certain acquisitions with additional
contingent purchase price obligations in order to reduce the
potential risk associated with negative future performance of
the acquired entity. In addition, we have entered into
agreements that may require us to purchase additional equity
interests in certain consolidated and unconsolidated
subsidiaries. The amounts relating to these transactions are
based on estimates of the future financial performance of the
acquired entity, the timing of the exercise of these rights,
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors. In
accordance with GAAP, we have not recorded a liability for these
items on the balance sheet since the definitive amounts payable
are not determinable or distributable. When the contingent
acquisition obligations have been met and the consideration is
distributable, we will record the fair value of this
consideration as an additional cost of the acquired entity. The
following table details the estimated liability and the
estimated amount that would be paid under such options, in the
event of exercise at the earliest exercise date. All payments
are contingent upon achieving projected operating performance
targets and satisfying other conditions specified in the related
agreements and are subject to revisions as the earn-out periods
progress.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The following contingent acquisition obligations are net of
compensation expense, except as noted below, as defined by the
terms and conditions of the respective acquisition agreements
and employment terms of the former owners of the acquired
businesses. This future expense will not be allocated to the
assets and liabilities acquired. As of December 31, 2004,
our estimated contingent acquisition obligations are as follows:

In accounting for acquisitions, we recognize deferred payments
and purchases of additional interests after the effective date
of purchase that are contingent upon the future employment of
owners as compensation expense in our Consolidated Statement of
Operations. As of December 31, 2004, our estimated
contingent acquisition payments with associated compensation
expense impacts are as follows:

Compensation Expense — Related Payments

Cash

$

34.1

$

4.9

$

2.1

$

1.4

$

—

$

1.3

$

43.8

Stock

$

1.8

$

0.2

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

2.0

Subtotal

$

35.9

$

5.1

$

2.1

$

1.4

$

—

$

1.3

$

45.8

Total Payments

$

137.0

$

24.0

$

17.6

$

9.6

$

9.5

$

15.1

$

212.8

*

We have entered into certain acquisitions that contain both put
    and call options with similar terms and conditions. In such
    instances, we have included the related estimated contingent
    acquisition obligations with Put Options.

The 2005 obligations relate primarily to acquisitions that were
completed prior to December 31, 2001.

DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES

We periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements and
forward contracts to manage exposure to interest rate
fluctuations and to mitigate foreign exchange volatility. During
the fourth quarter of 2004, we executed three interest rate
swaps which synthetically converted our $350.0,
6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due November 2014, of fixed
rate debt to floating rates. Fair value adjustments decreased
the carrying amount of our debt outstanding at December 31,
2004 by approximately $1.7. In January 2005,



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

we executed an interest rate swap which synthetically converted
an additional $150.0 of the $500.0, 7.25% Senior Unsecured
Notes due August 2011, of fixed rate debt to floating rates. We
entered into the swaps to hedge a portion of our floating
interest rate exposure on our cash investments. In May of 2005,
we terminated all of our long-term interest rate swap agreements
covering the $350.0, 6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes and
$150.0 of the $500.0, 7.25% Senior Unsecured Notes. In
connection with the interest rate swap termination, our net cash
receipts were approximately $1.1, which will be recorded as an
offset to interest expense over the remaining life of the
related debt.

We have entered into foreign currency transactions in which
various foreign currencies are bought or sold forward. These
contracts were entered into to meet currency requirements
arising from specific transactions. The changes in value of
these forward contracts were reflected in our Consolidated
Statement of Operations. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
we had contracts covering approximately $1.8 and $2.4,
respectively, of notional amount of currency and the fair value
of the forward contracts was negligible.

The terms of the 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes include two
embedded derivative instruments. The fair value of the two
derivatives on December 31, 2004 was immaterial.

INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We have identified numerous material weaknesses in our internal
control over financial reporting, as set forth in greater detail
in Item 8, Management’s Assessment on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting and Item 9A, Controls and
Procedures, of this report. Each of our material weaknesses
results in more than a remote likelihood that a material
misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will
not be prevented or detected. As a result, we have assessed that
our internal control over financial reporting was not effective
as of December 31, 2004. Management will, however, be
unable to determine whether the elements of internal control
over financial reporting related directly to preparing the
financial statements for external purposes, as well as the
preparation and calculation of the provision for income taxes,
were operating effectively as of December 31, 2004 because
internal controls in place at year-end have been extensively
modified prior to the Company’s evaluation of these
controls which can no longer be observed or assessed.

The report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”), our
independent registered public accounting firm, on our internal
control over financial reporting disclaims an opinion on
management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting. Until we file an
annual report containing an audit report on our internal control
over financial reporting that does not disclaim an opinion on
our assessment or on the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting, we are subject to certain limitations
under the US federal securities laws as further described in
Item 1, Business-Risk Factors.

We are in the process of developing and implementing remedial
measures to address the material weaknesses in our internal
control over financial reporting. However, because of our
decentralized structure and our many disparate accounting
systems of varying quality and sophistication, we have extensive
work remaining to remedy these material weaknesses. While we
have made considerable progress, we have yet to complete the
formal work plan for remedying the identified material
weaknesses. At present, there can be no assurance as to when the
remediation plan will be completed or when it will be
implemented. Until our remedial efforts are completed, we will
continue to incur the expenses and management burdens associated
with the manual procedures and additional resources required to
prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements. There will also
continue to be a substantial risk that we will be unable to make
future SEC filings on time. These developments, and the effect
on our actual or perceived liquidity and credit standing, could
have material adverse effects on our financial condition and
further adverse affects



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

on our business or our liquidity that we cannot predict. We
discuss these risks under Risk Factors in Item 1 of this
Annual Report.

RESTATEMENT

In connection with our work to comply with Section 404 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we identified errors in our
accounting and previously reported financial results. In March
2005, we announced that we would delay filing our Annual Report
on Form 10-K, and began a comprehensive review of
previously reported financial information. The scope of our
review included the analysis of accounting for acquisitions,
revenue and leases, internal investigations into potential
employee misconduct, as well as other miscellaneous areas
impacted by the identified material weaknesses. The review,
conducted under the direction of our senior management with the
oversight of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,
included our operating agencies and consisted of an extensive
examination of financial information and significant
transactions.

Our procedures were substantially manual and involved hundreds
of our employees and external consultants and took over six
months to complete. These procedures included examining the
accounting for more than 400 acquisitions, leases at
approximately 370 entities, approximately 10,000 account
reconciliations and account analyses and over 300,000
intercompany transactions, as well as a comprehensive review of
over 20,000 client contracts with respect to timing of revenue
recognition, vendor related discounts or credits and income
statement classification. In addition, we are in various stages
of completing approximately 50 internal investigations
addressing employee misconduct predominantly outside the US. In
order to complete this work, we have hired or replaced hundreds
of temporary and permanent accountants. Management believes the
scope and process of its internal review of previously reported
financial information was sufficient to identify issues of a
material nature that could affect our Consolidated Financial
Statements and all dates and periods presented herein have been
restated to fairly present the results of our operations.

The errors in our previously reported financial information, and
the failure to prevent them or detect them in our financial
reporting process, were largely attributable to weak internal
controls, our decentralized operational structure, general lack
of compliance with our policies and procedures, numerous
disparate operating information technology systems, inadequate
oversight by management at various levels within our
organization, and an inadequate staff of competent accounting
personnel with an appropriate level of knowledge of GAAP. We
concluded that our control environment has not progressed
sufficiently to serve as an effective foundation for all other
components of internal control.

As a result of our review, we determined that a restatement of
previously reported financial information was required. Our
previously reported financial information should no longer be
relied upon. Accordingly, we have restated our previously
reported financial information for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002, 2001, and 2000 and our previously
reported financial information for the first, second and third
quarters of 2004 and 2003 (the “restatement”). The
restatement also affects periods prior to 2000, which is
reflected as an adjustment to opening retained earnings as of
January 1, 2000. The restatement covers a number of
separate matters, each of which is described below and in
further detail in Item 8, Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data, Note 2, Restatement of Previously
Issued Financial Statements.

The law firm of Dewey Ballantine LLP was retained to advise the
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors regarding the
discharge of its obligations. The scope of the Dewey Ballantine
LLP work included oversight of the internal investigations into
potential employee misconduct being conducted by our internal
audit group and the overall restatement process conducted by
management. Dewey Ballantine LLP



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

retained a forensic accounting firm to assist with its work
involving the internal investigations and review of the overall
restatement process.

For the quarterly impact of the restatement issue and the
restated financial results for the first, second and third
quarters of 2004, see Item 8, Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data, Note 20, Results by Quarter.

The following tables summarize the impact of all of these
adjustments on previously reported revenue; net income (loss)
from continuing operations and earnings per share; and assets,
liabilities, and stockholders’ equity. The overall impact
on stockholders’ equity of the restatement adjustments as
of September 30, 2004, the date for which we last published
financial statements, is approximately $550 million or
27.5% of the previously reported September 30, 2004 equity
balance.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Description of Restatement Adjustments:

Revenue Recognition

Revenue Recognition related to Vendor Discounts or
    Credits:

We receive rebates, discounts, and other credits from our
vendors and media outlets for the acquisition of goods and
services that are entered into on behalf of our clients. The
expenses include the purchase of various forms of media,
including television, radio, and print advertising space, or
production costs, such as the creation of advertising campaigns,
commercials, and print advertisements. Revenues in the
advertising and communicative services business are frequently
recorded net of third party costs as the business is primarily
an agent for its clients. Since these costs are billed to
clients, there are times when vendor discounts, credits, or
price differences can affect the net revenue recorded by the
agency. These third party discounts, rebates, or price
differences are frequently referred to as credits.

Our contracts are typically “fixed-fee arrangements”
or “cost-based arrangements.” In “fixed-fee
arrangements,” the amount we charge our clients is
comprised of a fee for our services. The fee we earn, however,
is not affected by the level of expenses incurred. Therefore,
any rebates or credits received in servicing these accounts do
not create a liability to the client. In “cost-based
arrangements,” we earn a percentage commission or flat fee
based on or incremental to the expenses incurred. In these
cases, rebates or credits received may accrue to the benefit of
our clients and create a liability payable to the client. The
implication and interpretation of cost language included in our
contracts can vary across international and domestic markets in
which we operate and can affect whether or not we have a
liability to the client.

Without adequate contract review procedures the operating
practice and the accounting in some of our agencies,
predominantly outside the United States, relied on local customs
and practices. As a result, in some instances, our accounting
for the vendor discount was inconsistent with the underlying
contractual requirements, which necessitated accounting
adjustments. To correct for improperly recorded revenue, we have
established a liability to refund these credits, discounts and
rebates to our customers in accordance with our contractual
obligations.

As part of the restatement, we have performed an extensive
review of our client contracts and local law to determine the
impact of improperly recognizing these media and vendor credits
as additional revenue instead of recognizing a liability to our
clients. We have determined our exposure to each type of these
credits by agency, reviewed our legal obligations considering
our client contracts and local law, and



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

established a liability as necessary. Where it was impractical
to review client contracts we have estimated our exposure. If
our estimate is incorrect we may need to materially adjust our
liability.

In order to remediate this issue, we are in the process of
issuing a formal policy to require proper transparency in our
contracts, and proper handling and accounting for these types of
vendor discounts or credits received in the normal course of
business.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2000; we have
recorded an adjustment of $(16.9) to retained earnings at
January 1, 2000 related to vendor discounts or credits.

Revenue Recognition related to Customer Contracts:

We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement
exists, there is fixed and determinable pricing, and upon
completion of the earnings process in accordance with the terms
of the arrangement with our clients, which is generally as
services are performed and/or when the media placements or
production are completed.

For project based arrangements, revenue is recognized based upon
the agreement that we have in place with our customers. Our fees
are generally recognized as earned, based on the proportional
performance method of revenue recognition in situations where
our fee is reconcilable to the actual hours incurred to service
the client, as detailed in a contractual staffing plan, or where
the fee is earned on a per hour basis, with the amount of
revenue recognized in both situations limited to the amount
realizable per the terms of the client contract. Where it is
determined that the contractual staffing plan is incomplete or
there is no staffing plan, we defer the recognition of revenue
until the period in which all work is completed. For
retainer-based arrangements, fees are recognized on a straight
line or monthly basis when service is provided, essentially on a
pro rata basis, and the terms of the contract support that
accounting. We require explicit language in the contract
evidencing that our obligation to the client for services
rendered is satisfied on a monthly basis. We evaluate the
termination provisions of the contract for a determination of
amounts realizable at an interim date. Where it is determined
that the terms of the contract do not clearly support monthly
recognition of revenue, we defer the recognition of revenue
until the period in which all work is completed.

In certain transactions with our customers the persuasive
evidence of the customer arrangement was not always adequate to
support revenue recognition, or the timing of revenue
recognition did not appropriately follow the specific contract
terms. As part of our review, we reviewed significant client
contracts to ensure that revenue was recognized in accordance
with the terms of the contract and/or with our policies as
outlined above.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

We have established the following terms as the specific criteria
to be followed consistently across our global operating
divisions. For adequate persuasive evidence of arrangements, we
required signed contractual agreements or in lieu of a signed
contract, other evidence or documentation from our customers was
required in the period in which revenue was recognized. This
evidence was required to define our compensation, to give a
clear indication of how revenue was to be earned, and to
describe how our obligation to the client was to be satisfied.
In the absence of persuasive evidence of an arrangement or
detailed invoices indicating the level of services performed
were not available, we deferred the recognition of revenue for
the entire contract, until we could assure that all internal
work was completed. Where it was determined that persuasive
evidence was lacking or insufficient, we deferred the
recognition of revenue until that period in which persuasive
evidence was obtained, cash was received accompanied by a
detailed customer invoice, or all work was completed.

In connection with the restatement, we have established a formal
policy with specific guidelines and tools as to how revenue
should be recorded under the following bases: proportional
performance, monthly, completed contract, or in accordance with
other quantitative or qualitative goals as specified by the
contract. We also plan to create a central tracking system that
will detail all arrangements with clients which will assist in
ensuring that all criteria for proper revenue recognition are
met and properly classified.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2000; we have
recorded an adjustment of $75.0 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2000 related to customer contracts.

Accounting for Reimbursement of Out-of-Pocket Expenses:

We incur incidental out-of-pocket expenses in the course of
providing services to our clients, for which we are reimbursed
by our clients. These relate to travel, meals, and other
incidental expenses. Under EITF 01-14,

Income Statement
Characterization of Reimbursements Received for
“Out-of-Pocket” Expenses Incurred

, the
reimbursements should be recorded as revenue and operating
expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

Prior to 2004, we incorrectly recorded some of these
reimbursements of out-of-pocket expenses as a reduction of
operating expenses. The effect was to report both revenue and
expense net of these out-of-pocket expenses and reimbursements.
In 2004, we established a formal policy detailing the proper
classification of these expense reimbursements.

We reviewed significant activity for all financial periods prior
to 2004 to identify instances in which this error was made. In
the restatement, we have reported client reimbursements of
out-of-pocket expenses as revenue in all periods. Compared to
our previously published Consolidated Financial Statements, the



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

effect of the restatement is to increase revenue and expense
amounts, with no effect on operating income, and to reduce
operating margin in percentage terms.

Gross versus Net Revenue Presentation:

We incur and pay certain expenses on behalf of our clients
typically relating to the cost of media purchases or production
work. We invoice our clients for these expenses in addition to
our fees for services provided. EITF 99-19,

Reporting
Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent

, sets
forth criteria for the judgment whether revenue should be
recognized based on the gross amount billed to the customer or
net of amounts paid to suppliers. Because we are broadly
considered an advertising agency based on our primary lines of
business and only in certain situations would we record revenue
other than on a net basis. Accordingly, we generally record
revenue net of pass-through charges as we believe the relative
strength of the key indicators, taken as a whole, suggest we
generally act as an agent on behalf of our clients in our
primary lines of business.

We reviewed our lines of business and evaluated our status as a
principal or agent, and we reviewed significant transactions to
ensure the proper accounting for revenue. We assessed whether
the agency or the third-party supplier is the primary obligor
for services provided to the client. We evaluated the terms of
our client agreements as part of this assessment. In addition we
gave appropriate consideration to other key indicators, such as
latitude in establishing price and discretion in supplier
selection, and less consideration to others, such as credit risk.

We determined that for certain of our businesses, primarily
sales promotion, event, sports and entertainment marketing and
corporate and brand identity services, the relative strength of
the indicators suggests we act as a principal. Accordingly,
under EITF 99-19, we accounted for revenue on a net basis
in error. In the restatement, for those businesses we have
recorded the gross amount billed to the client as revenue
consistently on a historical basis. Compared to our previously
published Consolidated Financial Statements, the effect of the
restatement is to increase revenue and expense by equal amounts,
with no effect on operating income or balance sheet accounts,
and to reduce operating margin in percentage terms.

We have defined specific criteria which our personnel can use to
evaluate whether we are acting as a principal or an agent in
their arrangements with clients.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements for the
Accounting for Out-of-Pocket Expenses and Gross versus Net
Revenue Presentation is presented in the following table:

Revenue Presentation

Impact of Restatement

Increase (Decrease) for the Years Ended and as of December 31,





Consolidated Statement of Operations:

Revenue

355.6

358.5

340.2

264.3

Operating Income (Loss)

—

—

—

—

Provision for Income Taxes

—

—

—

—

Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations

—

—

—

—

Accounting for
Acquisitions

Future Obligations related to
Prior Acquisitions:

The terms of our acquisitions generally provide for initial
payment on the date of sale and contingent amounts over
succeeding years, calculated based on the growth and financial
performance of the business or the retention of key personnel.
As a result, we maintain contingent obligations related to
acquisitions



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

made in prior years, such as deferred payments and put options.
Deferred payments, or “earn-outs,” generally tie the
aggregate price ultimately paid for an acquisition to the
business’ performance and are included in the terms of the
original purchase to minimize our risk associated with potential
future negative changes in the performance of the acquired
entity during the post-acquisition transition period. Earn-outs
are typically contingent upon the achievement of projected
operating performance targets, as specified in the purchase
contract. For those acquisitions where we purchase partial
ownership interest in a business, there are often matching put
and call options issued. These put and call options are not
fixed, rather they are based on a formula that approximates fair
value. Put options require us to purchase additional equity
interests in the future. Put option amounts to be paid are
typically accounted for when the put option is exercised, except
in instances where put option payments are specifically
contingent upon the future employment of key personnel, in which
case compensation expense is accrued prior to when the related
put option is exercised. Call options entitle us to acquire
additional equity interests in the future. Call option amounts
to be paid are contingent upon our decision to exercise our
option. Therefore, purchases of additional interests related to
call options are accounted for when the related call option is
exercised.

In accounting for acquisitions, we recognize deferred payments
and purchases of additional interests after the effective date
of purchase, as an increase to goodwill and other intangibles,
or as compensation expense, depending on the terms of the
purchase contract. EITF 95-8,

Accounting for Contingent
Consideration Paid to the Shareholders of an Acquired Enterprise
in a Purchase Business Combination

, provides criteria for
this determination. In some instances, earn-out or put option
payments were not properly accounted for as compensation
expense. The effect of this error was to understate compensation
expense and, in most instances, to overstate goodwill.

We reviewed our acquisitions through 2004, including all
contingent future obligations as of December 31, 2004, and
we have recorded adjustments to compensation expense and
goodwill in periods where contingent acquisition obligations
were recorded inappropriately.

We will require that future acquisition-related transactions be
approved by our operating management as well as members of our
Controllers, Corporate Development and Tax groups prior to
execution of the related agreement. Our central repository of
related information has been reviewed for completeness and
accuracy and updated to ensure that it contains critical files
and data. We plan to update our policies concerning the proper
accounting for future obligations related to our acquisitions.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2000; we have
recorded an adjustment of $5.2 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2000.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table:

Pre-Acquisition
Earnings:

It was not uncommon during the period 1996 through 2002 for us
to account for the revenues and expenses of certain entities
acquired from a point in time that was earlier than the date of
closing. In those cases we incorrectly recorded the acquired
business’ revenues and expenses in our Consolidated
Financial Statements for that year as of January 1,
although the acquisition closed subsequent to that date,
typically in the latter half of the year. This incorrect
recognition of revenue and expenses prior to the closing date
was recorded either as an adjustment in the month of purchase,
or by adjusting prior months’ accounting results. As a
result of these misstatements of revenues and expenses, we
recorded additional goodwill on our balance sheet to offset the
increase to income. In doing so, we recorded amortization
expense on an inflated goodwill balance until the adoption of
SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets

, at January 1, 2002, when we ceased amortizing
goodwill.

As part of the restatement, we reviewed financial books and
records associated with the accounting at the time of
acquisition and utilized quantitative analytics to understand
revenue and expenses recorded related to the acquisition. As a
result of our review we identified 142 acquisitions where we had
inappropriately recognized earnings prior to our effective legal
ownership of the acquired entities.

We have calculated the impact of this incorrect practice through
the review of purchase contracts for the substantial majority of
acquisitions made since 1996. For those entities identified as
having recorded pre-acquisition earnings, we identified the
actual closing date of each acquisition and used this as the
cutoff date to determine the amount of pre-acquisition earnings
improperly recorded. For those entities identified with
pre-acquisition earnings recognition, we also adjusted the
goodwill balance for the error. Since the goodwill balance was
misstated we also recalculated the appropriate amortization of
goodwill from the date of acquisition.

We have also created a central repository for acquisition data.
Accounting for all future acquisitions must be reviewed and
evaluated with the appropriate management oversight prior to the
acquisition being finalized and must include members of our
Controllers, Treasury, Corporate Development and Tax groups to
prevent this type of inappropriate accounting in future periods.

We have recorded adjustments as part of the restatement to
reduce our consolidated revenues, expenses and goodwill balances
in the years where pre-acquisition earnings were recorded
inappropriately. We have also made adjustments to amortization
expense that was recorded on our misstated goodwill balance.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2000; we have
recorded an adjustment of $31.8 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2000 related to pre-acquisition earnings
recognition.

Internal Investigations

Instances of possible employee misconduct have come to our
attention through our anti-fraud program, internal and external
audit work, and the expanded scope of our work on the
restatement. Our corporate risk management group investigates
these matters, frequently with the assistance of outside
forensic accountants and legal counsel. It prepares a written
report documenting the investigation, its findings, and
recommended actions. The report is then presented to corporate
management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for
review. If we conclude that there has been misconduct, we take
appropriate personnel action, which may include termination, and
if recommended by counsel, we notify the appropriate
governmental and regulatory authorities of violations of law,
and take legal action if appropriate to recover our losses.

The restatement includes the correction of certain unintentional
errors in our accounting that were discovered as a result of
these investigations and primarily relate to agencies outside
the United States. However, certain of these investigations
revealed instances of deliberate falsification of accounting
records, evasion of taxes in jurisdictions outside the United
States, inappropriate charges to clients, diversion of corporate
assets, non-compliance with local laws and regulations, and
other improprieties. These errors were not prevented or detected
earlier because of material weaknesses in our control
environment and decentralized operating structure. In a number
of these cases, the activities appear to have had the purpose of
improving the reported financial performance of the operating
unit involved. In a number of cases, we believe the purpose
included reducing the personal tax burdens of the individuals
involved.

In an effort to improve the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting relating to employee misconduct, the Company
has developed an extensive remediation plan. This plan includes
specific responses to the findings of each of the internal
investigations referred to below, as well as an enhanced,
Company-wide compliance program. The remediation plan has been
developed by management in consultation with outside advisors
and has been approved by the Audit Committee.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The table below sets forth the impact of this element of the
restatement on our Consolidated Financial Statements for the
years 2000 through 2003. The restatement also reflects periods
prior to 2000; we have recorded an adjustment of $1.1 in our
retained earnings at January 1, 2000.

We believe that the liabilities we have recognized relating to
the investigations are our best estimate of our ultimate
liability based on the facts and documents reviewed to date.
While the vast majority of the investigations have yielded
adjustments to our prior period financial statements reflected
in the restatement, several of them are still continuing, and
others may arise in the future. Management has recorded its best
estimate of probable exposure based on the facts that it had at
the time. We cannot predict what any ongoing investigation may
uncover and what, if any, remedial actions may have to be taken.
It is possible that we will be required to pay material fines,
penalties, interest or other amounts associated with these
investigations.

Below is a summary of the cases that we have investigated that
have resulted in a restatement of our prior period financial
results greater than $5.0. These instances represent
approximately 80% of the aggregate cumulative adjustments
recorded as a result of our internal investigations.

•

We have recorded adjustments with a cumulative impact on net
    income for the years 2000 through 2004 of $31.8 including taxes,
    penalties and interest of $10.0 relating to errors we identified
    at our McCann agency in Turkey. These errors are attributable
    primarily to the retention of vendor discounts that should have
    been remitted to clients, the improper valuation of a previously
    acquired business and over-billing clients for payments to
    vendors. Our information to date indicates that these activities
    involved misconduct by local senior management. When the
    investigation is concluded, we will determine the appropriate
    personnel actions, which could include terminations of local
    senior management.

•

We have recorded adjustments with a cumulative impact on net
    income for the years 2000 through 2004 of $14.5 relating to
    errors identified at our FCB agency in Turkey. These errors were
    attributable primarily to inappropriate charges to customers and
    evasion of local taxes. Our information to date indicates that
    these activities involved misconduct by local senior management.
    When the investigation is concluded, we will determine the
    appropriate personnel actions, which could include terminations
    of local senior management.

•

We have recorded adjustments with a cumulative impact on net
    income for the years 2000 through 2004 of $10.8 relating to
    errors we identified at Media First in New York City. These
    errors are attributable primarily to inadequate recordkeeping
    but also included payment of certain employee salaries through
    accounts payable and without appropriate tax withholdings. The
    errors resulted in



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

In addition, the other investigations that had an impact of less
than $5.0 each have resulted in adjustments with a cumulative
impact on net income for the years 2000 through 2004 of $11.9.
The errors were similar in nature to those described above. We
have terminated, or are in the process of terminating, the
employees involved in these occurrences.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Review of International Compensation Arrangements

Over the past 18 months, we have undertaken an extensive
review of employment compensation practices across our
organization. While most practices were found to be acceptable,
we have identified some practices in certain jurisdictions that
required additional review. The key areas are as follows:

Personal Service Companies.

The advertising industry and
many other service industries frequently make use of
freelancers, who are typically treated as independent
contractors and not subjected to the regulations that apply to
an employee-employer relationship. In certain instances,
particularly in Europe and Latin America, it is common for
individuals to establish a personal service company
(“PSC”), in which case the hiring company will
normally contract directly with the PSC for the services of the
individual. In every jurisdiction that was reviewed, PSC
arrangements are legal and often customary and socially
acceptable. However, in certain circumstances, if the individual
does not meet the established criteria, the PSC structure is not
a permissible vehicle and could result in an avoidance of
personal income tax and social tax by the individual and, in the
case of the company, an avoidance of social tax. We reviewed
every situation where one of our agencies had indicated that it
contracted with a PSC and determined that in a number of
instances, the use of a PSC was not supportable.

Payment of Personal Expenses Outside the Normal Payroll
Mechanism.

We have also identified in certain countries,
including some in which such a practice was customary and
socially acceptable, instances where expenses that can be
considered personal in nature were reimbursed to an individual
employee outside the payroll mechanism. The practice resulted in
the payment not being reported through the normal payroll system
and no appropriate tax withholdings being made. We have
identified those instances where we believe such practice should
have been reported through the payroll system.

Split Salary Payments.

We identified certain instances
where an individual employee received compensation from a
jurisdiction outside the jurisdiction in which he was primarily
employed (home country). In such instances, the paying company
normally would not report or withhold local income tax on such
salary payments, relying on the employee to report and remit the
appropriate taxes to the country of employment. We have
identified those instances where either the paying entity or the
local employing entity had an affirmative obligation to report
and withhold personal income and social taxes.

Equity Grants and Retirement Payments.

In a number of
instances we identified stock option and restricted stock or
retirement annuities granted to employees outside the US and
upon exercise or vesting, neither the US company nor the local
company reported the compensation arising therefrom or withheld
applicable local tax. Instead the agency notified each employee
of the employee’s obligation to report and withhold in the
respective local country of residence or employment. We have
identified certain jurisdictions where we or the local employing
agency should have withheld on or reported the compensation to
the local authorities.

Independent Contractor/ Employees.

A common issue in our
industry is the retention of services by individuals in the
capacity of an independent contractor instead of as an employee.
There are specific criteria in every jurisdiction in which we do
business which establish whether an individual is to be
characterized as an employee or as an independent contractor. In
a number of instances we have identified individuals who were
classified as independent contractors but should have been
considered employees.

As it relates to the 5 issues, Personal Service Companies,
payment of personal expenses outside the normal payroll
mechanism, split salary payments, equity grants and retirement
payments, and independent contractors/ employees, we have
recorded adjustments with a cumulative impact on net income for
the years 2000 through 2003 of $26.8, of which $9.9 related to
PSCs.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The table below sets forth the impact of this element of the
restatement on our Consolidated Financial Statements for the
years 2000 through 2003. The restatement also reflects periods
prior to 2000; we have recorded an adjustment of $1.3 in our
retained earnings at January 1, 2000.

Accounting for Lease Related Expenses

Substantially all of our office space is leased from third
parties. Certain of our lease contracts contain rent holidays,
various escalation clauses, or landlord/tenant incentives. While
it is our policy to record leases properly, in some instances we
did not account for these lease provisions in accordance with
GAAP, specifically, SFAS No. 13,

Accounting for
Leases

, FASB Technical Bulletin (“FTB”) 85-3,

Accounting for Operating Leases with Scheduled Rent
Increases

, FTB 88-1,

Issues Related to Accounting for
Leases

, and SFAS No. 143,

Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations

. In particular: we recorded rent
expense for operating leases on a cash basis, without
consideration for rent holidays; we did not appropriately record
or amortize landlord/tenant incentives, and in some cases,
netted reimbursements with leasehold improvement assets; we did
not properly record or amortize leasehold improvements over the
appropriate periods, and in some cases, inappropriately
amortized leasehold improvement over terms that included
assumptions of lease renewals; we did not completely or
accurately record asset retirement obligations related to
leasehold improvement assets; and for lease properties that were
part of either our 2001 or 2003 restructuring programs, these
errors also impacted amounts previously recorded for
restructuring.

We have reviewed our significant lease arrangements in place as
of December 31, 2004. We reviewed rental costs, including
costs related to fixed rent escalation clauses and rent
holidays, and correctly recorded them on a straight-line basis
over the lease term. We ensured that landlord/tenant incentives
are recorded as leasehold improvement assets and amortized over
the shorter of the economic useful life or the lease term. We
ensured that funds received are recorded as deferred rent and
amortized as reductions to rent expense over the lease term. For
leasehold improvements, we recorded adjustments to amortize the
related assets over the shorter of the economic useful life or
the lease term, and ensured that the lease renewal is
“reasonably assured” as that term is contemplated by
SFAS No. 13 when the amortization period includes a
renewal period. We ensured that asset retirement obligations are
recorded completely and accurately in the period in which they
are incurred and a reasonable estimate of fair value can be
made, and that the amortization of the asset and accretion of
the discounted liability is recognized ratably over the useful
life of the leasehold improvement asset. For leased properties
that were part of either our 2001 or 2003 restructuring
programs, we ensured that prior period rent costs have been
recorded on a straight-line basis prior to time of restructuring
and that deferred rent credit balances have been appropriately
taken into consideration in the calculation of the related
restructuring reserve at time of restructuring.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

We have revised and expanded guidelines to assist personnel in
analyzing and recording lease related expenses in the
Consolidated Statement of Operation.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2000; we have
recorded an adjustment of $21.4 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2000 related to lease expenses.

Other
Adjustments

We have identified other adjustments to our Consolidated
Financial Statements which do not conform to GAAP. We had
previously not performed account reconciliations timely. As a
result of the restatement we reconciled significant balance
sheet and income statement accounts and determined that some
accounts required adjustment. In our examination of accounts, we
have identified a number of matters that require correction, the
most significant of which are discussed below.

Tax Provision:

Based on our review of a global licensing
structure in the Octagon Group that had been put in place prior
to our acquisition of that group in 1998, it was determined that
the licensing structure had resulted in incorrectly allocating
reported income for statutory and income tax purposes for all
years since acquisition. Based on established transfer pricing
principles it is our view that the income in question should
have been allocated to and reported partially within the U.K.
and partially within the U.S., resulting in additional income
taxes. The corrected amount of tax for years 1998 through 2003
has been recorded, including interest and penalties, and will be
remitted to the respective governments. We have disclosed this
change to the tax authorities in the U.S. and in the U.K.

Deconsolidation of Entities:

We noted several instances
where an entity was fully consolidated in error. In these cases,
the entity was erroneously consolidated in financial results for
certain years for which we did not have effective control of the
entity, and accordingly in the restatement, we recorded an
adjustment to deconsolidate these entities for those years.

Pension Expense Associated with Foreign Plans:

Adjustments were recorded to properly state the pension expense
associated with foreign plans for all years presented. Such
adjustments resulted in increased pension expense for previously
unidentified plans.

Goodwill and Investment Impairments:

Adjustments were
necessary to reclass goodwill and investment impairments in the
appropriate periods where the triggering event was identified to
have occurred. Certain impairments had been recorded in
subsequent periods and were accounted for in the appropriate
periods.

Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments:

Adjustments
were made to properly state the foreign currency translation
adjustment and the foreign currency gains or losses accounts for
all periods. Certain



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

amounts that had previously been recorded in the wrong periods
have now been adjusted and accounted for in the appropriate
periods.

Classification Revisions:

Adjustments were made to
reclassify certain balance sheet, income and expense account
balances for consistent application of GAAP and our policies and
procedures. Such reclassification adjustments included the
presentation of bank overdrafts as a liability rather than a
credit balance in an asset account, intercompany accounts that
had been incorrectly recorded as accounts receivable, accounts
payable or other non-intercompany accounts, reclassifications of
long-term and short-term assets and liabilities and other
miscellaneous income and expense account reclassifications.
Certain adjustments had been recorded in subsequent periods and
were accounted for in the appropriate periods.

Auction rate securities have been reclassified from cash
equivalents to short-term marketable securities for each of the
periods presented in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet
based upon our evaluation of the maturity dates associated with
the underlying bonds. Auction rate securities are variable rate
bonds tied to short-term interest rates with maturities on the
face of the securities in excess of 90 days. Auction rate
securities have interest rate resets, at predetermined
short-term intervals, usually between 7 and 35 days. They
trade at par and are callable at par on any interest payment
date at the option of the issuer. Interest paid during a given
period is based upon the interest rate determined during the
prior auction. Although these securities are issued and rated as
long-term bonds, they are priced and traded as short-term
instruments because of the significant degree of market
liquidity provided through the interest rate resets. We had
previously classified these instruments as cash equivalents if
the period between interest rate resets was 90 days or less.

Other Adjustments:

We also have corrected certain known
errors that were previously not recorded because in each such
case we believed at the time that the amount of any such error
was not material to our consolidated financial statements.
Principally, these types of adjustments consist of numerous
minor items. We wrote off unsubstantiated balances related to
unbillable third party charges, the reversal of over accrued job
costs, and fixed asset write-offs for items that should not have
been capitalized, could not be accounted for or were not in use.

As part of our remediation of our material control weaknesses,
we are in the process of hiring additional personnel with
knowledge of GAAP to assist in timely reconciliations of our
accounts, to ensure substantiation of amounts recorded,
recognition of appropriate cut-off, and management oversight of
key accounts.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2000; we have
recorded an adjustment of $13.6 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2000 related to these miscellaneous other
adjustments.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The following tables present the effect of the restatement
adjustments on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the
years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, 2001, and 2000:

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The following tables present the effect of the restatement
adjustments on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
December 31, 2003, 2002, 2001, and 2000:

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States of America. Preparation of the financial statements and
related disclosures requires us to make judgments, assumptions
and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the
Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosed in the
accompanying notes. We believe that of our significant
accounting policies, the following critical accounting policies
involve a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity. We
consider these accounting estimates to be critical because
changes in the assumptions or estimates have the potential to
materially impact our financial statements. On an ongoing basis,
we evaluate our judgments, assumptions and estimates based on
historical experience and various other factors that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Management
discussed with our Audit Committee the development, selection
and disclosure of our critical accounting policies and estimates
and the application of these policies and estimates. Actual
results may differ from these estimates under different
assumptions or conditions.

Revenue Recognition

Our primary sources of revenue are from the planning and
execution of advertising programs in various media and the
planning and execution of other marketing and communications
programs. The revenue for these services is recognized when all
of the following criteria are satisfied: (i) persuasive
evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) the price is fixed
or determinable; (iii) collectibility is reasonably
assured; and (iv) services have been performed.

Depending on the terms of the client contract, fees for services
performed can be recognized three ways: proportional
performance, straight-line or monthly basis or completed
contract. Fees are generally recognized as earned based on the
proportional performance method of revenue recognition in
situations where our fee is reconcilable to the actual hours
incurred to service the client as detailed in a contractual
staffing plan or where the fee is earned on a per hour basis
with the amount of revenue recognized in both situations limited
to the amount realizable per the terms of the client contract.
We believe an input based measure (the ‘hour’) is
appropriate in situations where the client arrangement
essentially functions as a time and out of pocket expense
contract and the client receives the benefit of the services
provided throughout the contract term. Fees are recognized on a
straight-line or monthly basis when service is provided
essentially on a pro rata basis and the terms of the contract
support monthly basis accounting. Certain fees (such as for
major marketing events) are deferred until contract completion
as the final act is so significant in relation to the service
transaction taken as a whole. Fees are also recognized on a
completed contract basis when the terms of the contract do not
otherwise qualify for proportional performance, monthly basis
recognition or the client agreement calls for the delivery of
discrete projects. Incremental direct costs incurred related to
contracts where revenue is accounted for on a completed contract
basis are expensed as incurred. Commissions are generally earned
on the date of the broadcast or publication.

Contractual arrangements with clients may also include
performance incentive provisions designed to link a portion of
the revenue to our performance relative to both qualitative and
quantitative goals. Performance incentives are recognized as
revenue for quantitative targets when the target has been
achieved and for qualitative targets when confirmation of the
incentive is received. Therefore, depending on the respective
client contract, revenue can contain various arrangements
involving fees for services performed, commissions, performance
incentive provisions or a mixture of the three.

We receive credits, discounts, and other rebates from our
vendors and media outlets for transactions entered into on
behalf of our clients, which are passed through to our clients
in accordance with



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

contractual provisions. If a pass-through is not required, then
these credits are a reduction of vendor cost, and are recorded
as additions to revenue. In connection with the restatement,
where it was impractical to review client contracts, we have
estimated our exposure using statistical methods. If our
estimate is insufficient, we may be required to recognize
additional liabilities.

Substantially all of our revenue is recorded as the net amount
of our gross billings less pass-through expenses charged to a
client. In most cases, the amount that is billed to clients
significantly exceeds the amount of revenue that is earned and
reflected in our financial statements, because of various
pass-through expenses such as production and media costs.
In compliance with Emerging Issues Task Force
(“EITF”) 99-19,

Reporting Revenue Gross as a
Principal versus Net as an Agent

, we assess whether the
agency or the third-party supplier is the primary obligor. We
evaluate the terms of our client agreements as part of this
assessment. In addition, we give appropriate consideration to
other key indicators such as latitude in establishing price,
discretion in supplier selection and credit risk to the vendor.
Because we broadly operate as an advertising agency based on our
primary lines of business and given the industry practice to
generally record revenue on a net versus gross basis, we believe
that there must be strong evidence in place to overcome the
presumption of net revenue accounting. Accordingly, we generally
record revenue net of pass-through charges as we believe the key
indicators of the business suggest we generally act as an agent
on behalf of our clients in our primary lines of business. In
those businesses (primarily sales promotion, event, sports and
entertainment marketing and corporate and brand identity
services) where the key indicators suggest we act as a
principal, we record the gross amount billed to the client as
revenue.

In accordance with EITF 01-14,

Income Statement
Characterization of Reimbursements Received for
‘Out-of-Pocket’ Expenses Incurred

, we record the
reimbursements received for incidental expenses as revenue.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated based on the
aging of accounts receivable, reviews of client credit reports,
industry trends and economic indicators, as well as analysis of
recent payment history for specific customers. The estimate is
based largely on a formula-driven calculation but is
supplemented with economic indicators and knowledge of potential
write-offs of specific client accounts. Though we consider the
balance to be adequate, changes in general domestic and
international economic conditions in specific markets could have
a material impact on the required reserve balance. A 10%
increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts would result in
a $13.6 increase in bad debt expense for 2004.

Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes includes federal, state, local
and foreign taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of
temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
amounts and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the year in which the temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We evaluate
the realizability of our deferred tax assets and establish a
valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or
a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized.

The realization of our deferred tax assets is primarily
dependent on future earnings. Any reduction in estimated
forecasted results may require that we record additional
valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. Once a
valuation allowance has been established, it will be maintained
until there is sufficient positive evidence to conclude that it
is more likely than not that such assets will be realized. An



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

ongoing pattern of sustained profitability will generally be
considered as sufficient positive evidence. If the allowance is
reversed in a future period, our income tax provision will be
reduced to the extent of the reversal. Accordingly, the
establishment and reversal of valuation allowances has had and
could have a significant negative or positive impact on our
future earnings. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information.

We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax
rates that, if changed, would result in either an increase or
decrease in the provision for income taxes in the period of
change.

It is our intention to reinvest undistributed earnings of our
foreign subsidiaries and thereby postpone their remittance.
While the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs
Act”) creates a temporary incentive for
U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed international
earnings by providing an 85% dividends received deduction, we
have reviewed the provisions and determined not to take
advantage of this provision to repatriate undistributed earnings
of our foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. However, we will
continue to monitor our circumstances and if there is a change
which makes the use of this provision advantageous, we will be
able to adopt it prior to December 31, 2005.

Land, Buildings and Equipment

Certain events or changes in circumstances could cause us to
conclude that impairment indicators exist and that the asset
values associated with a given operation have become impaired.
If the total of the expected future undiscounted future cash
flows is less than the carrying value of the asset, we recognize
an impairment loss in the financial statements. The impairment
loss is calculated by subtracting the imputed fair value from
the carrying value of the asset. At least annually, we review
all fixed assets for impairment. Any resulting impairment loss
could have a material impact on our financial condition and
results of operations.

The assignment of useful lives to buildings and equipment
involves significant judgments and the use of estimates. We
depreciate fixed assets using the straight-line method over the
asset’s assigned useful life. A one-year decrease in the
useful lives of these assets would result in a $18.4 increase in
annual depreciation expense.

Investments

We regularly review our cost and equity investments to determine
whether a significant event or change in circumstances has
occurred that may have an adverse effect on the fair value of
each investment. In the event a decline in fair value of an
investment occurs, we must determine if the decline in market
value has been other than temporary. We consider our investments
strategic and long-term in nature, so we must determine if the
fair value decline is recoverable within a reasonable period.
For investments accounted for using the cost basis or equity
basis, we evaluate fair value based on specific information
(valuation methodologies, estimates of appraisals, financial
statements, etc.) in addition to quoted market price, if
applicable. Other factors indicative of an other than temporary
decline include recurring operating losses, credit defaults and
subsequent rounds of financing with pricing that is below the
cost basis of the investment. This list is not all-inclusive; we
consider all known quantitative and qualitative factors in
determining if an other than temporary decline in value of an
investment has occurred. Our assessments of fair value represent
our best estimates at the time of impairment review. If
different fair values were estimated, this could have a material
impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We recorded an
investment impairment of $63.4 for the year ended
December 31, 2004 primarily related to a decrease in
projected operating results of an unconsolidated investment. See
Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

We account for our business combinations using the purchase
accounting method. The total costs of the acquisitions are
allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their
respective estimated fair market values. Considering the
characteristics of advertising, specialized marketing and
communication services companies, our acquisitions usually do
not have significant amounts of tangible and other intangible
net assets. As a result, a substantial portion of the purchase
price is allocated to goodwill. Determining the fair market
value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires
management’s judgment and often involves the use of
significant estimates, including but not limited to, future cash
inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives, and market
multiples.

We have three types of intangible assets: (1) goodwill;
(2) other intangible assets with indefinite lives not
subject to amortization; and (3) other intangible assets
with definite lives subject to amortization. We perform a review
annually of all intangible assets as of September 30th or
whenever events or significant changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Events or
circumstances that might require the need for more frequent
tests include, but are not limited to, the loss of a number of
significant clients, the identification of other impaired assets
within a reporting unit, negative financial performance, the
disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit, or a
significant adverse change in business climate or regulations.

We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill at a reporting unit
level and test for impairment at least annually. Reporting units
are either the entities at the operating segment level or one
level below the operating segment level. We identified 13
reporting units for the 2004 impairment testing. All goodwill
relates to, and is assigned directly to, specific reporting
units.

The first step of the impairment test is a comparison of the
fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. Goodwill
allocated to a reporting unit whose fair value is equal to or
greater than its carrying value is not impaired and no further
testing is required. If the fair value of a reporting
unit’s goodwill is less than its carrying value, a second
impairment step will be performed to determine if impairment
exists. The second step of the goodwill impairment test is a
comparison of the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s
goodwill to its carrying value. Goodwill of a reporting unit is
impaired when its carrying value exceeds its implied fair value.
Impaired goodwill is written down to its implied fair value with
a charge to expense in the period the impairment is identified.

The fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using our
projections of discounted future operating cash flows (without
interest) of the unit. Such projections require the use of
significant estimates and assumptions as to matters such as
future revenue growth, profit margins, capital expenditures,
assumed tax rates and discount rates. We believe that the
estimates and assumptions made are reasonable but are
susceptible to change from period to period. Additionally, our
strategic decisions or changes in market valuation multiples
could lead to further impairment charges. Actual results of
operations, cash flows and other factors used in a discounted
cash flow valuation will likely differ from the estimates used
and it is possible that differences and changes could be
material.

Other intangible assets include customer lists, trade names and
customer relationships. Intangible assets with indefinite lives
not subject to amortization are tested for impairment in the
same manner as goodwill as described above. Intangible assets
with definitive lives subject to amortization are amortized on a
straight-line basis with estimated useful lives generally
ranging from 1 to 15 years and are tested for impairment
whenever events or circumstances indicate that a carrying amount
of an asset may not be recoverable. If the total of the expected
future undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying value
of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference between
fair value and the carrying value of the asset in the period the
impairment is identified.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Our annual impairment review as of September 30, 2004
resulted in impairment charges of $311.9 that were recorded at
three reporting units. See Notes 7 and 8 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

The excess of the low range of the fair value over the carrying
value for each of the non-impaired reporting units ranged from
approximately $6.4 to approximately $1,501.9. In order to
evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the
goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease
to the fair values of each reporting unit. This hypothetical 10%
decrease would result in excess fair value over carrying value
for each of the non-impaired reporting units ranging from
approximately $3.4 to approximately $871.9.

Acquisitions

The majority of our acquisitions include an initial payment at
the time of closing and provide for additional contingent
purchase price payments over a specified time. The initial
purchase price of an acquisition is allocated to identifiable
assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair
values with any excess being recorded as goodwill. These
contingent payments (“earn-outs”) are calculated based
on estimates of the future financial performance of the acquired
entity, the timing of the exercise of these rights, changes in
foreign currency exchange rates and other factors. Earn-out
payments are either recorded as an increase to goodwill and
other intangibles or expensed as compensation based on the
acquisition agreement and the terms of employment for the former
owners of the acquired businesses. Earn-out payments are
recorded within the financial statements once the contingent
acquisition obligations have been met and the consideration is
distributable. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section
of this report and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information regarding future contingent
acquisition obligations.

Restructuring Reserves

When appropriate, we establish restructuring reserves for
severance and termination costs and lease termination and other
exit costs related to our restructuring programs. We have
established reserves for restructuring programs initiated in
2001 and 2003. The reserves reflect our best estimates for the
costs of the plans. However, actual results may differ from the
estimated amounts based on, but not limited to, changes in
demand for advertising services and unexpected usage of leased
properties. Comparison of actual results to estimates may
materially impact the amount of the restructuring charges. In
2004, we recorded adjustments to the restructuring reserves of
$22.6 and $9.4 for changes in management estimates related to
the 2003 and 2001 programs, respectively. We will continue to
monitor our restructuring reserves and may adjust the current
balances based on future events. See Note 5 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Pension and Postretirement Benefits

We use numerous actuarial assumptions and methods in the
determination of our pension and postretirement benefit costs
and obligations. The discount rate is the major assumption,
which impacts our benefit cost and recorded obligations for
pension and postretirement plans. Discount rates used for our
benefit plans attempt to match the duration of the underlying
liability with highly rated securities that could be used to
effectively settle the obligation. For 2004, a 25 basis
point decrease in the discount rate would have increased our net
benefit cost by approximately $1.8. See Note 14 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

OTHER MATTERS

SEC Investigation

In January 2003, the SEC issued a formal order of investigation
related to our restatements of earnings for periods dating back
to 1997. On April 20, 2005, we received a subpoena from the
SEC under authority of the order of investigation requiring
production of additional documents relating to the potential
restatement we announced in March 2005. The SEC is investigating
the restatement detailed in Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. We are cooperating fully with the
investigation.

RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Please refer to Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements for a complete description of recent accounting
pronouncements that have affected us or may affect us.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks
related to interest rates and foreign currency rates. From time
to time, we use derivatives, pursuant to established guidelines
and policies, to manage some portion of these risks. Derivative
instruments utilized in our hedging activities are viewed as
risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not
used for trading or speculative purposes. See Note 16 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Interest Rates

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates
relates primarily to our debt obligations. At December 31,
2004, a significant portion (81.1%) of our debt obligations bore
interest at fixed interest rates. Accordingly, assuming the
fixed-rate debt is not refinanced, there would be no impact on
interest expense or cash flow from either a 10% increase or
decrease in market rates of interest. The fair market value of
the debt obligations would decrease by approximately $16.3 if
market rates were to increase by 10% and would increase by
approximately $19.5 if market rates were to decrease by 10%. For
that portion of the debt that bore interest at variable rates,
based on outstanding amounts and rates at December 31,
2004, interest expense and cash out-flow would increase or
decrease by approximately $1.8 if market rates were to increase
or decrease by 10%, respectively. From time to time we have used
interest rate swaps to manage the mix of our fixed and floating
rate debt obligations. In May 2005, we terminated all our
existing long-term interest rate swap agreements, and currently
have none outstanding.

Foreign Currencies

We face translation and transaction risks related to changes in
foreign currency exchange rates. Amounts invested in our foreign
operations are translated into US Dollars at the exchange
rates in effect at the balance sheet date. The resulting
translation adjustments are recorded as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the
stockholders’ equity section of our Consolidated Balance
Sheet. Our foreign subsidiaries generally collect revenues and
pay expenses in currencies other than the US Dollar,
mitigating transaction risk. Since the functional currency of
our foreign operations is generally the local currency, foreign
currency translation of the balance sheet is reflected as a
component of stockholders’ equity and does not impact
operating results. Revenues and expenses in foreign currencies
translate into varying amounts of US Dollars depending upon
whether the US Dollar weakens or strengthens against other
currencies. Therefore, changes in exchange rates may either
positively or negatively affect our consolidated revenues and
expenses (as expressed in US Dollars) from foreign
operations. Currency transaction gains or losses arising from
transactions in currencies other than the functional currency
are included in results of operations and were not significant
in the year ended December 31, 2004. We have not entered
into a material amount of foreign currency forward exchange
contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the
effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates.



Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX



MANAGEMENT’S ASSESSMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. Our internal control over financial reporting is
designed to provide assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States of America
(“GAAP”). We recognize that because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the
risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
and procedures may deteriorate.

To evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting, management used the criteria described in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (“COSO”).

A material weakness (within the meaning of PCAOB Auditing
Standard No. 2) in internal control over financial
reporting is a control deficiency, or combination of control
deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that
a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
statements will not be prevented or detected.

Management’s assessment is that our internal control over
financial reporting was not effective as of December 31,
2004 because of the material weaknesses identified and described
below. We will, however, be unable to determine whether the
elements of internal control over financial reporting related
directly to preparing the financial statements for external
purposes, as well as the preparation and calculation of the
provision for income taxes, were operating effectively as of
December 31, 2004, because the internal controls in place
at year-end have been extensively modified prior to the
Company’s evaluation of these controls and can no longer be
observed or assessed. Although we have not completed our
assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting, the following describes the
material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting
that have been identified by us as of December 31, 2004. It
is possible had we been able to complete our assessment that
additional material weaknesses may have been identified. The
items are grouped according to the components of the COSO
framework to which they relate. As a result of these material
weaknesses, we did not prevent or detect errors in our financial
statements, which led to the restatement we have made in this
annual report.

Control Environment

1. The Company did not maintain an effective control
environment. Specifically, controls were not designed and in
place to ensure compliance with the Company’s policies and
procedures, including those contained in the Company’s Code
of Conduct. Further, the Company did not maintain a sufficient
complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting
knowledge, experience and training in the application of
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
(GAAP) commensurate with the Company’s financial
reporting requirements. The Company also failed to implement
processes to ensure periodic monitoring of its existing internal
control activities over financial reporting. By placing, heavy
reliance on manual procedures without quality control review and
other monitoring controls in place to adequately identify and
assess significant risks that may impact financial statements
and related disclosures. This deficiency resulted in a control
environment that allowed instances of falsified books and
records, violations of laws, regulations and the Company’s
policies, misappropriation of assets and improper customer
charges and dealings with vendors resulting in the restatement
and audit adjustments described below. This deficiency has had a
pervasive impact on the Company’s control environment and
has contributed to the material weaknesses described below.

Control Activities

2. The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
accounting for purchase business combinations. Specifically, the
Company did not have controls designed and in place to ensure the



completeness, accuracy and valuation of revenue and expenses of
acquired companies related to periods after the closing date of
the transactions. In addition, the Company did not maintain
effective controls to ensure the completeness, accuracy and
valuation of assets and liabilities recorded for compensatory
earn-out and put arrangements or derivatives embedded within
acquisition transactions. This deficiency resulted in a
restatement of 2004 (first three interim periods) and 2003
interim consolidated financial statements, the 2003 and 2002
annual consolidated financial statements and audit adjustments
to the 2004 annual consolidated financial statements and certain
interim periods, which primarily impacted revenue, salaries and
related expenses, office and general expenses, long lived assets
and other charges, goodwill, accrued liabilities, deferred
compensation and employee benefits, other non-current
liabilities and accumulated deficit.

3. The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
accuracy and presentation and disclosure of recording of
revenue. Specifically, controls were not designed and in place
to ensure that customer contracts were authorized, that customer
contracts were analyzed to select the appropriate method of
revenue recognition, and billable job costs were compared to
client cost estimates to ensure that no amounts were owed to
clients. In addition, controls were not designed and in place to
ensure that revenue transactions were analyzed for appropriate
presentation and disclosure of billable client pass-through
expenses or for recognition of revenue on a gross or net basis.
This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004 (first three
interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated financial
statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated financial
statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual consolidated
financial statements and certain interim periods, which impacted
revenue, office and general expenses, accounts receivable, net,
expenditures billable to clients, accounts payable, accrued
liabilities and accumulated deficit.

4. The Company did not maintain effective controls to
ensure that certain financial statement transactions were
appropriately initiated, authorized, processed, documented and
accurately recorded. This was primarily evident in the following
specific areas:

This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004 (first three
interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated financial
statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated financial
statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual consolidated
financial statements and certain interim periods, which impacted
substantially all accounts in the consolidated financial
statements.

5. The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
complete and accurate recording of leases in accordance with
GAAP. Specifically, the Company did not completely evaluate and
accurately account for leases with rent holidays, rent
escalation clauses, leasehold improvements or asset retirement
obligations associated with real estate leases where leasehold
improvements are made. This deficiency resulted in a restatement
of 2004 (first three interim periods) and 2003 interim
consolidated financial statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual
consolidated financial statements and audit adjustments to the
2004 annual consolidated financial statements and certain
interim periods, which primarily impacted office and general
expenses, restructuring charges, land, buildings and equipment,
net, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, other non-current
liabilities, and accumulated deficit.



6. The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
accounting for income taxes in operations outside of the United
States to ensure amounts are accurately accounted for in
accordance with GAAP. Specifically, the Company did not have
controls designed and in place to ensure that accounting
personnel performed the following: recorded income tax provision
between current and deferred tax accounts in the balance sheet;
reconciled prior years’ income tax returns to the
appropriate period income tax provision computations; timely
identified income tax exposures and contingencies, including
interest and penalties; and reconciled tax accounts to tax
filings. This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004
(first three interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated
financial statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated
financial statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual
consolidated financial statements and certain interim periods,
which impacted accrued liabilities, deferred income taxes, other
non-current liabilities and the provision for income taxes.

7. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
reporting local income tax in the local statutory accounts or
local income tax returns in operations outside of the United
States. Specifically, the Company did not have controls designed
and in place to ensure that accounting personnel adhere to
policy and procedures regarding compliance with local laws and
regulations, and reconcile its accounts between GAAP and local
income tax reporting. This resulted in the violation of local
tax regulations and incomplete and inaccurate recording of
income taxes in the Company’s consolidated financial
statements. This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004
(first three interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated
financial statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated
financial statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual
consolidated financial statements and certain interim periods,
which impacted accrued liabilities, deferred income taxes, other
non-current liabilities and the provision for income taxes.

8. The Company did not maintain effective controls relating
to the completeness and accuracy of local payroll and
compensation related liabilities in certain operations outside
of the United States. Specifically the Company did not have
controls designed and in place to identify instances where local
reporting regulations and payroll tax withholding requirements
were not met. A number of compensation practices were identified
which were either not supportable under local law or were not
fully in accordance with the Company’s policies and
procedures. This resulted in improperly omitting, and in certain
instances purposefully omitting, certain liabilities in the
consolidated financial statements. This deficiency resulted in a
restatement of 2004 (first three interim periods) and 2003
interim consolidated financial statements, the 2003 and 2002
annual consolidated financial statements and audit adjustments
to the 2004 annual consolidated financial statements and certain
interim periods, which impacted salaries and other related
expense and accrued expenses.

9. The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
accuracy and completeness of the processing and monitoring of
intercompany transactions, including appropriate authorization
for intercompany charges. Specifically, controls were not
designed and in place to ensure that intercompany balances were
accurately classified and completely reported in the
Company’s consolidated financial statements, and
intercompany confirmations were not completed timely or
accurately between the Company’s agencies to ensure proper
elimination as part of the consolidation process. This control
deficiency resulted in immaterial adjustments to the
consolidated financial statements.

10. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
the reconciliation of certain financial statement accounts.
Specifically, controls were not designed and in place to ensure
that the Company’s accounts were accurate and agreed to
detailed support. This deficiency resulted in a restatement of
2004 (first three interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated
financial statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated
financial statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual
consolidated financial statements and certain interim periods,
which impacted substantially all accounts in the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.



11. The Company did not maintain effective control over the
monitoring of financial statement accounts to value and record
them in a timely, accurate and complete manner. Specifically,
controls were not designed and in place to:

i. compare revenue recorded to amounts billed
    to clients;

ii. identify contracts with potential client rebates;

iii.

analyze collectibility of aged accounts receivable or
    expenditures billable to clients;

iv. compare billable job costs to client cost
    estimates;

v. review fixed asset records for under
    utilized, missing or fully depreciated assets;

vi.

ensure that the underlying records support liabilities related
    to employee compensation, including an inventory of foreign
    employee pension plans, census data to calculate pension
    liabilities and changes made to benefit plans which impact the
    Company’s compliance with certain employment and tax
    regulations;

This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004 (first three
    interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated financial
    statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated financial
    statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual consolidated
    financial statements and certain interim periods, which impacted
    substantially all accounts in the Company’s consolidated
    financial statements.

12. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
the period end financial reporting process. Specifically,
controls were not designed and in place to ensure that
(i) journal entries, both recurring and non-recurring, were
reviewed and approved, (ii) timely and complete reviews of
the financial statements were performed by personnel with
knowledge sufficient to reach appropriate accounting
conclusions, and (iii) a reconciliation of its legal entity
financial results to the financial results recorded in the
consolidated financial statements was performed. This deficiency
resulted in a restatement of 2004 (first three interim periods)
and 2003 interim consolidated financial statements, the 2003 and
2002 annual consolidated financial statements and audit
adjustments to the 2004 annual consolidated financial statements
and certain interim periods, which impacted substantially all
accounts in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

13. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
the safeguarding of assets. Specifically, at certain of the
Company’s international locations, controls were not
designed and in place to segregate responsibility and authority
between initiating, processing and recording of transactions
which impacted many accounts in the Company’s consolidated
financial statements. This deficiency resulted in certain
improper transactions being entered into and those transactions
being recorded or not recorded in the Company’s financial
statements. This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004
(first three interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated
financial statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated
financial statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual
consolidated financial statements and certain interim periods,
which impacted substantially all accounts in the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.

14. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
independent service providers. Specifically, the Company was
unable to document, test, and evaluate controls at third party
vendors to which the Company outsources its employee benefit
enrollment process and certain payroll processing services in



North America. This control deficiency did not result in an
adjustment to the consolidated financial statements.

15. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
access to the Company’s financial applications and data.
Specifically, controls were not designed and in place to ensure
that access to certain financial applications and data at
certain locations were adequately restricted. In addition, the
Company did not adequately monitor the access to financial
applications and data. This control deficiency has had a
pervasive impact on the Company’s information technology
control environment.

16. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
spreadsheets used in the Company’s financial reporting
process. Specifically, controls were not designed and in place
to ensure that access was restricted to appropriate personnel,
and that unauthorized modification of the data or formulas
within spreadsheets was prevented. This control deficiency did
not result in material adjustments to the consolidated financial
statements.

Information and Communication

17. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
the communication of policies and procedures. Specifically,
controls were not designed and in place to ensure corporate
communications, including the Company’s code of conduct,
were received by personnel across the Company. This deficiency
has had a pervasive impact on the Company’s control
environment and has contributed to the material weaknesses
described above.

Monitoring

18. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
monitoring the performance of proper application of the
Company’s internal controls over financial reporting and
related policies and procedures. Specifically, controls were not
designed and in place to ensure that the Company identifies and
remediates control deficiencies timely. This deficiency has had
a pervasive impact on the Company’s control environment and
has contributed to the many material weaknesses described above.

Each of the above control deficiencies could result in a
misstatement of account balances or disclosure, including the
aforementioned accounts identified in the material weaknesses
above, that would result in a material misstatement to the
annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would
not be prevented or detected.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), our independent registered
public accounting firm, has not completed their audit of our
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004. PwC’s report on our internal
control over financial reporting disclaims an opinion on our
assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting. Refer to PwC’s report within
Item 8.

REMEDIATION OF MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN

INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We have extensive work remaining to remedy the material
weaknesses described above. The magnitude of the work is
attributable partly to our significantly decentralized structure
and the number of our disparate accounting systems of varying
quality and sophistication. We are in the process of developing
a comprehensive remediation plan to address our deficiencies and
expect that this plan will extend into the 2006 fiscal year. The
following list describes remedial actions that have been
implemented to date.

Meeting with management of our financial and operating units to
    ensure their understanding of the procedures to be followed and
    requirements to be met prior to executing required internal
    management certification letters to accompany the financial
    statements they submit. These meetings have been occurring and
    will continue.

Requiring Interpublic Group Code of Conduct compliance
    certifications by all significant management of the Company and
    our agencies prior to the submission of the financial and
    operating unit’s





Engaging outside professional tax advisors to review local
    income tax returns of each subsidiary outside of the US prior to
    filing in order to ensure they are filed on a timely basis and
    are prepared in accordance with local law and regulations.

Requiring written approval of a corporate committee consisting
    of senior representatives of the human resources, tax, legal and
    accounting functions for any non-traditional employment
    arrangement or payroll practice. In addition, all existing
    non-traditional employment arrangements must be reviewed by
    senior agency financial executives and a formal plan proposed to
    eliminate those arrangements which are not supportable under
    both local law and practice as well as our policies and
    procedures.

Given the presence of material weaknesses in our internal
control over financial reporting, there is more than a remote
likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim
financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Our
financial reporting process includes extensive procedures we
undertake in order to obtain assurance regarding the reliability
of our published financial statements, notwithstanding the
material weaknesses in internal control. We have significantly
expanded our year-end closing procedures. We have expanded our
review of customer contracts and agreements to address revenue
recognition issues. We have increased our review procedures for
lease accounting, expenditures billable to clients, receivables
and inter-company transactions. In addition, we have other
procedures to strengthen account analysis and reconciliations.
All of the above mentioned procedures have been designed to help
compensate for our material weaknesses in order to provide
assurance that the financial statements are free of material
inaccuracies or omissions of material fact. As a result,
management, to the best of its knowledge, believes that
(i) this report does not contain any untrue statements of a
material fact or omits any material fact and (ii) the
consolidated financial statements and other financial
information included in this report for the year ended
December 31, 2004 have been prepared in conformity with
GAAP and fairly present in all material respects our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

The Interpublic Group of
Companies, Inc.:

We were engaged to perform an integrated audit of The
Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.’s 2004 consolidated
financial statements and of its internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2004 in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). We have audited the Company’s 2004, 2003,
and 2002 consolidated financial statements in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Our opinion on the consolidated financial
statements, based on our audits of those consolidated financial
statements, is presented below. However, as explained more fully
below, the scope of our work was not sufficient to enable us to
express, and we do not express, an opinion either on
management’s assessment or on the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
the related consolidated statements of operations, of
stockholders’ equity and of cash flows present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of The Interpublic
Group of Companies Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2004 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. In addition, in our opinion the financial statement
schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 8
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements
and financial statements schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

As described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Company restated its 2003 and 2002 consolidated
financial statements.

Internal control over financial reporting

Also, we were engaged to audit management’s assessment,
included in Management’s Assessment on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 8, that the
Company did not maintain effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 based on
criteria established in

Internal Control —
Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
Company’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting.

A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of
control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote
likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim
financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Although
management has not completed its assessment of the effectiveness
of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2004, management has identified the
following material weaknesses as of December 31, 2004:

1. The Company did not maintain an effective control
environment. Specifically, controls were not designed and in
place to ensure compliance with the Company’s policies and
procedures, including those



contained in the Company’s Code of Conduct. Further, the
Company did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel
with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience
and training in the application of accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) commensurate
with the Company’s financial reporting requirements. The
Company also failed to implement processes to ensure periodic
monitoring of its existing internal control activities over
financial reporting by placing heavy reliance on manual
procedures without quality control review and other monitoring
controls in place to adequately identify and assess significant
risks that may impact financial statements and related
disclosures. This deficiency resulted in a control environment
that allowed instances of falsified books and records,
violations of laws, regulations and the Company’s policies,
misappropriation of assets and improper customer charges and
dealings with vendors resulting in the restatement and audit
adjustments described below. This deficiency has had a pervasive
impact on the Company’s control environment and has
contributed to the material weaknesses described below.

2. The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
accounting for purchase business combinations. Specifically, the
Company did not have controls designed and in place to ensure
the completeness, accuracy and valuation of revenue and expenses
of acquired companies related to periods after the closing date
of the transactions. In addition, the Company did not maintain
effective controls to ensure the completeness, accuracy and
valuation of assets and liabilities recorded for compensatory
earn-out and put arrangements or derivatives embedded within
acquisition transactions. This deficiency resulted in a
restatement of 2004 (first three interim periods) and 2003
interim consolidated financial statements, the 2003 and 2002
annual consolidated financial statements and audit adjustments
to the 2004 annual consolidated financial statements and certain
interim periods, which primarily impacted revenue, salaries and
related expenses, office and general expenses, long lived assets
and other charges, goodwill, accrued liabilities, deferred
compensation and employee benefits, other non-current
liabilities and accumulated deficit.

3. The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
accuracy and presentation and disclosure of recording of
revenue. Specifically, controls were not designed and in place
to ensure that customer contracts were authorized, that customer
contracts were analyzed to select the appropriate method of
revenue recognition, and billable job costs were compared to
client cost estimates to ensure that no amounts were owed to
clients. In addition, controls were not designed and in place to
ensure that revenue transactions were analyzed for appropriate
presentation and disclosure of billable client pass-through
expenses or for recognition of revenue on a gross or net basis.
This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004 (first three
interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated financial
statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated financial
statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual consolidated
financial statements and certain interim periods, which impacted
revenue, office and general expenses, accounts receivable, net,
expenditures billable to clients, accounts payable, accrued
liabilities and accumulated deficit.

4. The Company did not maintain effective controls to
ensure that certain financial statement transactions were
appropriately initiated, authorized, processed, documented and
accurately recorded. This was primarily evident in the following
specific areas:

i.      client
    contracts, incentives and rebates;

ii.

write-offs of aged accounts receivable, expenditures billable to
    clients and amounts billable to clients;



x.      purchase, disposal
    or write-off of intangible assets.

This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004 (first three
interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated financial
statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated financial
statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual consolidated
financial statements and certain interim periods, which impacted
substantially all accounts in the consolidated financial
statements.

5. The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
complete and accurate recording of leases in accordance with
GAAP. Specifically, the Company did not completely evaluate and
accurately account for leases with rent holidays, rent
escalation clauses, leasehold improvements or asset retirement
obligations associated with real estate leases where leasehold
improvements are made. This deficiency resulted in a restatement
of 2004 (first three interim periods) and 2003 interim
consolidated financial statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual
consolidated financial statements and audit adjustments to the
2004 annual consolidated financial statements and certain
interim periods, which primarily impacted office and general
expenses, restructuring charges, land, buildings and equipment,
net, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, other non-current
liabilities, and accumulated deficit.

6. The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
accounting for income taxes in operations outside of the United
States to ensure amounts are accurately accounted for in
accordance with GAAP. Specifically, the Company did not have
controls designed and in place to ensure that accounting
personnel performed the following: recorded income tax provision
between current and deferred tax accounts in the balance sheet;
reconciled prior years’ income tax returns to the
appropriate period income tax provision computations; timely
identified income tax exposures and contingencies, including
interest and penalties; and reconciled tax accounts to tax
filings. This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004
(first three interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated
financial statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated
financial statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual
consolidated financial statements and certain interim periods,
which impacted accrued liability, deferred income taxes, other
non-current liabilities and the provision for income taxes.

7. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
reporting local income tax in the local statutory accounts or
local income tax returns in operations outside of the United
States. Specifically, the Company did not have controls designed
and in place to ensure that accounting personnel adhere to
policy and procedures regarding compliance with local laws and
regulations, and reconcile its accounts between GAAP and local
income tax reporting. This resulted in the violation of local
tax regulations and incomplete and inaccurate recording of
income taxes in the Company’s consolidated financial
statements. This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004
(first three interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated
financial statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated
financial statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual
consolidated financial statements and certain interim periods,
which impacted accrued liabilities, deferred income taxes, other
non-current liabilities and the provision for income taxes.

8. The Company did not maintain effective controls over the
completeness and accuracy of local payroll and compensation
related expense and liabilities in certain operations outside of
the United States. Specifically the Company did not have
controls designed and in place to identify instances where local
reporting regulations and payroll tax withholding requirements
were not met. A number of compensation practices were identified
which were either not supportable under local law or were not in
accordance with the Company’s policies and procedures. This
resulted in improperly omitting, and in certain instances
purposefully omitting, certain liabilities in the consolidated
financial statements. This deficiency resulted in a restatement
of 2004 (first three interim periods) and 2003 interim
consolidated financial statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual
consolidated financial statements and audit adjustments to the
2004 annual consolidated financial statements and certain
interim periods, which impacted salaries and other related
expense and accrued liabilities.

9. The Company did not maintain effective control over the
accuracy and completeness of the processing and monitoring of
intercompany transactions, including appropriate authorization
for intercompany charges. Specifically, controls were not
designed and in place to ensure that intercompany balances were
accurately



classified and completely reported in the Company’s
consolidated financial statements, and intercompany
confirmations were completed timely or accurately between the
Company’s agencies to ensure proper elimination as part of
the consolidation process. This control deficiency resulted in
immaterial adjustments to the consolidated financial statements.

10. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
the reconciliation of certain financial statement accounts.
Specifically, controls were not designed and in place to ensure
that the Company’s accounts were accurate and agreed to
detailed support. This deficiency resulted in a restatement of
2004 (first three interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated
financial statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated
financial statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual
consolidated financial statements and certain interim periods,
which impacted substantially all accounts in the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.

11. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
the monitoring of financial statement accounts to value and
record them in a timely, accurate and complete manner.
Specifically, controls were not designed and in place to:

i. compare revenue recorded to amounts billed
    to clients;

ii. identify contracts with potential client rebates;

iii.

analyze collectibility of aged accounts receivable or
    expenditures billable to clients;

iv. compare billable job costs to client cost
    estimates;

v. review fixed asset records for under
    utilized, missing or fully depreciated assets;

vi.

ensure that the underlying records support liabilities related
    to employee compensation, including an inventory of foreign
    employee pension plans, census data to calculate pension
    liabilities and changes made to benefit plans which impact the
    Company’s compliance with certain employment and tax
    regulations;

This deficiency resulted in a restatement of 2004 (first three
interim periods) and 2003 interim consolidated financial
statements, the 2003 and 2002 annual consolidated financial
statements and audit adjustments to the 2004 annual consolidated
financial statements and certain interim periods, which impacted
substantially all accounts in the Company’s consolidated
financial statements.

12. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
the period end financial reporting process. Specifically,
controls were not designed and in place to ensure that
(i) journal entries, both recurring and non-recurring, were
reviewed and approved, (ii) timely and complete reviews of
the financial statements were performed by personnel with
knowledge sufficient to reach appropriate accounting
conclusions, and (iii) a reconciliation of its legal entity
financial results to the financial results recorded in the
consolidated financial statements was performed. This deficiency
resulted in a restatement of 2004 (first three interim periods)
and 2003 interim consolidated financial statements, the 2003 and
2002 annual consolidated financial statements and audit
adjustments to the 2004 annual consolidated financial statements
and certain interim periods, which impacted substantially all
accounts in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

13. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
the safeguarding of assets. Specifically, at certain of the
Company’s international locations, controls were not
designed and in place to segregate responsibility and authority
between initiating, processing and recording of transactions
which impacted many accounts in the Company’s consolidated
financial statements. This deficiency resulted in certain
improper transactions being entered into and those transactions
being recorded or not recorded in the



Company’s financial statements. This deficiency resulted in
a restatement of 2004 (first three interim periods) and 2003
interim consolidated financial statements, the 2003 and 2002
annual consolidated financial statements and audit adjustments
to the 2004 annual consolidated financial statements and certain
interim periods, which impacted substantially all accounts in
the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

14. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
independent service providers. Specifically, the Company was
unable to document, test, and evaluate controls at third party
vendors to which the Company outsources its employee benefit
enrollment process and certain payroll processing services in
North America. This control deficiency did not result in an
adjustment to the consolidated financial statements.

15. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
access to the Company’s financial applications and data.
Specifically, controls were not designed and in place to ensure
that access to certain financial applications and data at
certain locations were adequately restricted. In addition, the
Company did not adequately monitor the access to financial
applications and data. This control deficiency has had a
pervasive impact on the Company’s information technology
control environment.

16. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
spreadsheets used in the Company’s financial reporting
process. Specifically, controls were not designed and in place
to ensure that access was restricted to appropriate personnel,
and that unauthorized modification of the data or formulas
within spreadsheets was prevented. This control deficiency did
not result in material adjustments to the consolidated financial
statements.

17. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
the communication of policies and procedures. Specifically,
controls were not designed and in place to ensure corporate
communications, including the Company’s code of conduct,
were received by personnel across the Company. This deficiency
has had a pervasive impact on the Company’s control
environment and has contributed to the material weaknesses
described above.

18. The Company did not maintain effective controls over
monitoring the performance of proper application of the
Company’s internal controls over financial reporting and
related policies and procedures. Specifically, controls were not
designed and in place to ensure that the Company identifies and
remediates control deficiencies timely. This deficiency has had
a pervasive impact on the Company’s control environment and
has contributed to the many material weaknesses described above.

Each of the above control deficiencies could result in a
misstatement of account balances or disclosures, including the
aforementioned accounts identified in the material weaknesses
above, that would result in a material misstatement to the
annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would
not be prevented or detected.

The existence of one or more material weaknesses as of
December 31, 2004 would preclude a conclusion that the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of that date. These material weaknesses were
considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of
audit tests applied in our audit of the 2004 consolidated
financial statements, and our disclaimer of opinion regarding
the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting does not affect our opinion on those
consolidated financial statements.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or



timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Since the Company has not completed its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004, and we were unable to complete our
procedures to satisfy ourselves as to the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting, the
scope of our work was not sufficient to enable us to express,
and we do not express, an opinion either on management’s
assessment or on the effectiveness of the company’s
internal control over financial reporting and to identify all
material weaknesses that might exist at December 31, 2004.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

September 29, 2005



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

(Amounts in millions)



THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) — (Continued)

(Amounts in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
statements.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Note 1:

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Business Description

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the
“Company”, “we”, “us” or
“our”) is one of the world’s largest advertising
and marketing services companies, comprised of hundreds of
communication agencies around the world that deliver custom
marketing solutions on behalf of our clients. Our agencies cover
the spectrum of marketing disciplines and specialties, from
traditional services such as consumer advertising and direct
marketing, to services such as experiential marketing and
branded entertainment. With offices in approximately 130
countries and approximately 43,700 employees, our agencies work
with our clients to create global and local marketing campaigns
that cross borders and media. These marketing programs seek to
build brands, influence consumer behavior and sell products.

Principles of Consolidation

The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of
the Company and its subsidiaries, most of which are wholly
owned. Investments in companies in which we exercise significant
influence, but not control, are accounted for using the equity
method of accounting. Investments in companies in which we have
less than a 20% ownership interest and do not exercise
significant influence are accounted for at cost. All
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified
to conform to current year presentation.

During 2003, we completed the sale of NFO World Group Inc.
(“NFO”). NFO is classified as discontinued operations
and the results of operations and cash flows of NFO have been
removed from our results of continuing operations and cash flows
for all periods.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Estimates are used when accounting for certain items such as
revenue recognition, allowances for doubtful accounts,
depreciation and amortization, income taxes, restructuring
reserves, valuation of tangible and intangible assets,
recoverability of goodwill, business combinations, contingencies
and pension and postretirement benefit obligations.

Segments

We have three reportable segments, Integrated Agency Network
(“IAN”), Constituent Management Group
(“CMG”), and Motorsports, in addition to the Corporate
and Other category. The largest segment, IAN, is comprised of
McCann WorldGroup (“McCann”), The FCB Group
(“FCB”), The Lowe Group (“Lowe”), Draft
Worldwide (“Draft”) and the Stand-Alone Agencies. The
Stand-Alone Agencies include Campbell-Ewald, Deutsch Hill
Holliday and The Martin Agency. The second segment, CMG, is
comprised of Weber Shandwick, Golin Harris, DeVries Public
Relations, Jack Morton, FutureBrand and Octagon Worldwide
(“Octagon”). Our third reporting segment is comprised
of the Motorsports operations (“Motorsports”), which
we exited during 2004.

Revenue Recognition

Our primary sources of revenue are from the planning and
execution of advertising programs in various media and the
planning and execution of other marketing and communications
programs. The revenue for these services is recognized when all
of the following criteria are satisfied: (i) persuasive



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) the price is fixed
or determinable; (iii) collectibility is reasonably
assured; and (iv) services have been performed.

Depending on the terms of the client contract, fees for services
performed can be recognized three ways: proportional
performance, straight-line or monthly basis or completed
contract. Fees are generally recognized as earned based on the
proportional performance method of revenue recognition in
situations where our fee is reconcilable to the actual hours
incurred to service the client as detailed in a contractual
staffing plan or where the fee is earned on a per hour basis
with the amount of revenue recognized in both situations limited
to the amount realizable per the terms of the client contract.
We believe an input based measure (the “hour’) is
appropriate in situations where the client arrangement
essentially functions as a time and out of pocket expense
contract and the client receives the benefit of the services
provided throughout the contract term. Fees are recognized on a
straight-line or monthly basis when service is provided
essentially on a pro rata basis and the terms of the contract
support monthly basis accounting. Certain fees (such as for
major marketing events) are deferred until contract completion
as the final act is so significant in relation to the service
transaction taken as a whole. Fees are also recognized on a
completed contract basis when the terms of the contract do not
otherwise qualify for proportional performance, monthly basis
recognition or the client agreement calls for the delivery of
discrete projects. Incremental direct costs incurred related to
contracts where revenue is accounted for on a completed contract
basis are expensed as incurred. Commissions are generally earned
on the date of the broadcast or publication.

Contractual arrangements with clients may also include
performance incentive provisions designed to link a portion of
the revenue to our performance relative to both qualitative and
quantitative goals. Performance incentives are recognized as
revenue for quantitative targets when the target has been
achieved and for qualitative targets when confirmation of the
incentive is received. Therefore, depending on the respective
client contract, revenue can contain various arrangements
involving fees for services performed, commissions, performance
incentive provisions or a mixture of the three.

We receive credits, discounts, and other rebates from our
vendors and media outlets for transactions entered into on
behalf of our clients, which are passed through to our clients
in accordance with contractual provisions. If a pass-through is
not required, then these credits are a reduction of vendor cost,
and are recorded as additions to revenue. In connection with the
restatement, where it was impractical to review client
contracts, we have estimated our exposure using statistical
methods. If our estimate is insufficient, we may be required to
recognize additional liabilities.

Substantially all of our revenue is recorded as the net amount
of our gross billings less pass-through expenses charged to a
client. In most cases, the amount that is billed to clients
significantly exceeds the amount of revenue that is earned and
reflected in our financial statements, because of various
pass-through expenses such as production and media costs. In
compliance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”)
99-19,

Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as
an Agent,

we assess whether the agency or the third-party
supplier is the primary obligor. We evaluate the terms of our
client agreements as part of this assessment. In addition, we
give appropriate consideration to other key indicators such as
latitude in establishing price, discretion in supplier selection
and credit risk to the vendor. Because we broadly operate as an
advertising agency based on our primary lines of business and
given the industry practice to generally record revenue on a net
versus gross basis, we believe that there must be strong
evidence in place to overcome the presumption of net revenue
accounting. Accordingly, we generally record revenue net of
pass-through charges as we believe the key indicators of the
business suggest we generally act as an agent on behalf of our
clients in our primary lines of business. In those businesses
(primarily sales promotion, event, sports and entertainment
marketing and corporate and brand identity services) where the
key indicators suggest we act as a principal, we record the
gross amount billed to the client as revenue.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

In accordance with EITF 01-14,

Income Statement
Characterization of Reimbursements Received for
‘Out-of-Pocket’ Expenses Incurred,

we record the
reimbursements received for incidental expenses as revenue.

Costs of Services (Salaries and Related Expenses and Office
and General Expenses)

Salaries and related expenses consist of payroll costs and
related benefits associated with client service professional
staff and administrative staff, including severance associated
with reductions in workforce and costs incurred for freelance
contractors who are utilized to support business development.
Office and general expenses include costs directly attributable
to client engagements. These costs include out-of-pocket costs
such as travel and subsistence for client service professional
staff, production costs and other direct costs that are rebilled
to our clients. Office and general expenses also include
expenses attributable to the support of client service
professional staff, depreciation and amortization costs, rent
expense, bad debt expense relating to accounts receivable,
professional fees, the costs associated with the development of
a shared services center and implementation costs associated
with upgrading our information technology infrastructure.

Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Marketable Securities

Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments, including
certificates of deposit, government securities and time deposits
with original maturities of three months or less at the time of
purchase and are stated at estimated fair value, which
approximates cost. Cash is maintained at high credit quality
financial institutions.

We classify all of our marketable equity securities as
available-for-sale. These securities are carried at fair value
with the corresponding unrealized gains and losses reported as a
separate component of comprehensive loss. The cost of securities
sold is determined based upon the average cost of the securities
sold.

Certain auction rate securities are classified as short-term
marketable securities based upon our evaluation of the maturity
dates associated with the underlying bonds. Although these
securities are issued and rated as long-term bonds, with
maturities ranging from 20 to 30 years, they are priced and
traded as short-term instruments because of the significant
degree of market liquidity provided through the interest rate
resets.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated based on the
aging of accounts receivable, reviews of client credit reports,
industry trends and economic indicators, as well as analysis of
recent payment history for specific customers. The estimate is
based largely on a formula-driven calculation but is
supplemented with economic indicators and knowledge of potential
write-offs of specific client accounts.

Expenditures Billable to Clients

Expenditures billable to clients include costs incurred
primarily in connection with providing advertising, marketing
and corporate communications services. These expenditures are
invoiced to clients at various times over the course of the
production process. Fees and commissions for advertising
services on production work are recorded as revenue when earned.

Investments

Investments are accounted for on the equity basis or cost basis,
including investments to fund certain deferred compensation and
retirement obligations. We regularly review our cost and equity
investments to



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

determine whether a significant event or change in circumstances
has occurred that may have an adverse effect on the fair value
of each investment. In the event a decline in fair value of an
investment occurs, we must determine if the decline in market
value has been other than temporary. We consider our investments
strategic and long-term in nature, so we must determine if the
fair value decline is recoverable within a reasonable period.
For investments accounted for using the cost or equity method of
accounting, we evaluate fair value based on specific information
(valuation methodologies, estimates of appraisals, financial
statements, etc.) in addition to quoted market price, if
applicable. Other factors indicative of an other than temporary
decline include recurring operating losses, credit defaults and
subsequent rounds of financing with pricing that is below the
cost basis of the investment. This list is not all-inclusive; we
consider all known quantitative and qualitative factors in
determining if an other than temporary decline in value of an
investment has occurred. Our assessments of fair value represent
our best estimates at the time of impairment review. See
Note 9 for further information.

Land, Buildings and Equipment

Land, buildings and equipment are stated at cost. Buildings and
equipment are depreciated generally using the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets,
which range from 3 to 20 years for furniture, equipment and
computer software costs, from 10 to 45 years for buildings
and the shorter of the life of the asset or the lease term for
leasehold improvements. The total depreciation expense for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $178.3,
$204.4 and $197.6, respectively. Land, buildings and equipment
are reviewed for impairment at least annually or whenever events
or circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be
recoverable. If the total of the expected future undiscounted
cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset, a loss
is recognized for the difference between the imputed fair value
and the carrying value of the asset. See Note 8 for a
description of impairment charges recognized.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

We account for our business combinations using the purchase
accounting method. The total costs of the acquisitions are
allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their
respective estimated fair market values. Considering the
characteristics of advertising, specialized marketing and
communication services companies, our acquisitions usually do
not have significant amounts of tangible and other intangible
net assets. As a result, a substantial portion of the purchase
price is allocated to goodwill. Determining the fair market
value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires
management’s judgment and often involves the use of
significant estimates, including but not limited to, future cash
inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives, and market
multiples.

We have three types of intangible assets: (1) goodwill;
(2) other intangible assets with indefinite lives not
subject to amortization; and (3) other intangible assets
with definite lives subject to amortization. We perform a review
annually of all intangible assets as of September 30th or
whenever events or significant changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Events or
circumstances that might require the need for more frequent
tests include, but are not limited to, the loss of a number of
significant clients, the identification of other impaired assets
within a reporting unit, negative financial performance, the
disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit, or a
significant adverse change in business climate or regulations.

We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill at a reporting unit
level and test for impairment at least annually. Reporting units
are either the entities at the operating segment level or one
level below the operating segment level. We identified 13
reporting units for the 2004 impairment testing. All goodwill
relates to, and is assigned directly to, specific reporting
units.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The first step of the impairment test is a comparison of the
fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. Goodwill
allocated to a reporting unit whose fair value is equal to or
greater than its carrying value is not impaired and no further
testing is required. If the fair value of a reporting
unit’s goodwill is less than its carrying value, a second
impairment step will be performed to determine if impairment
exists. The second step of the goodwill impairment test is a
comparison of the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s
goodwill to its carrying value. Goodwill of a reporting unit is
impaired when its carrying value exceeds its implied fair value.
Impaired goodwill is written down to its implied fair value with
a charge to expense in the period the impairment is identified.

The fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using our
projections of discounted future operating cash flows (without
interest) of the unit. Such projections require the use of
significant estimates and assumptions as to matters such as
future revenue growth, profit margins, capital expenditures,
assumed tax rates and discount rates. We believe that the
estimates and assumptions made are reasonable but are
susceptible to change from period to period. Additionally, our
strategic decisions or changes in market valuation multiples
could lead to further impairment charges. Actual results of
operations, cash flows and other factors used in a discounted
cash flow valuation will likely differ from the estimates used
and it is possible that differences and changes could be
material.

Other intangible assets include customer lists, trade names and
customer relationships. Intangible assets with indefinite lives
not subject to amortization are tested for impairment in the
same manner as goodwill as described above. Intangible assets
with definitive lives subject to amortization are amortized on a
straight-line basis with estimated useful lives generally
ranging from 1 to 15 years and are tested for impairment
whenever events or circumstances indicate that a carrying amount
of an asset may not be recoverable. If the total of the expected
future undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying value
of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference between
fair value and the carrying value of the asset in the period the
impairment is identified.

Foreign Currencies

The financial statements of our foreign operations, when the
local currency is the functional currency, are translated into
US Dollars at the exchange rates in effect at each year end
for assets and liabilities and average exchange rates during
each year for the results of operations. The related unrealized
gains or losses from translation are reported as a separate
component of comprehensive loss.

Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional
currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such
transactions arise. Subsequent changes in exchange rates result
in transaction gains or losses, which are reflected within other
income (expense) in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

Concentrations of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to
concentrations of credit risk are primarily cash and cash
equivalents, short-term marketable securities, accounts
receivable, expenditures billable to clients, interest rate
instruments and foreign exchange contracts. We invest our excess
cash in investment-grade, short-term securities with financial
institutions and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one
counterparty. Concentrations of credit risk with accounts
receivable are limited due to the large number of clients and
the dispersion across different industries and geographical
areas. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our clients and
maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the
expected collectibility of all accounts receivable. We are
exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the
counterparties of the interest rate swaps and foreign currency
contracts. We limit our exposure to any one financial
institution and do not anticipate nonperformance by these
counterparties.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes includes federal, state, local
and foreign taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the
liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of
temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
amounts and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the year in which the temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We evaluate
the realizability of our deferred tax assets and establish a
valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or
a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. See
Note 10 for details of valuation allowances established.

Earnings (Loss) Per Share

In periods when we generate a loss, basic loss per share is
computed by dividing the loss attributable to common
shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares and
contingently issuable shares outstanding for the period. In
periods when we generate income, basic Earnings Per Share
(“EPS”) is calculated using the two-class method,
pursuant to EITF 03-6,

Participating Securities and the
Two — Class Method under SFAS Statement
No. 128.

The two-class method is required as our
Convertible Senior Notes and 3-Year Series A Mandatory
Convertible Preferred Stock (“Preferred Stock”)
qualify as participating securities, each having the right to
receive dividends or dividend equivalents should dividends be
declared on common stock. Under this method, earnings for the
period (after deduction for contractual preferred stock
dividends) are allocated on a pro-rata basis to the common
shareholders and to the holders of participating securities
based on their right to receive dividends. The weighted-average
number of shares outstanding is increased to reflect the number
of common shares into which the participating securities could
convert.

Diluted earnings (loss) per share reflect the potential dilution
that would occur if certain contingently issuable shares were
issued and if stock-based incentives and option plans (including
stock options, awards to restricted stock and restricted stock
units), the convertible notes as described in Note 11 and
the Preferred Stock as discussed in Note 12 were exercised
or converted into common stock. The potential issuance of common
stock is assumed to occur at the beginning of the year (or at
the time of issuance of the dilution instrument, if later), and
the incremental shares are included using the treasury stock or
“if-converted” methods. The proceeds utilized in
applying the treasury stock method consist of: (1) the
amount, if any, to be paid upon exercise; (2) the amount of
compensation cost attributed to future service not yet
recognized; and (3) any tax benefits credited to
paid-in-capital related to the exercise. These proceeds are then
assumed to be used by us to purchase common stock at the average
market price during the period. The incremental shares
(difference between the shares assumed to be issued and the
shares assumed to be purchased), to the extent they would have
been dilutive, are included in the denominator of the diluted
EPS calculation.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

Derivative instruments, including those that are embedded in
other contracts, are recorded at fair value in the balance sheet
as either an asset or a liability. Changes in the fair value of
the derivatives are recorded each period in earnings unless
specific hedge accounting criteria are met. We do not enter into
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes and do
not have a material portfolio of derivative financial
instruments. See Note 16 for a discussion of derivative
instruments.

Stock-Based Compensation

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

, we have accounted for our various stock-based
compensation plans under the



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

intrinsic value recognition and measurement principles of
Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion
No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.

Generally, the exercise price of stock options granted equals
the market price of the underlying shares on the date of the
grant and, therefore, no compensation expense is recorded. The
intrinsic value of restricted stock grants and certain other
stock-based compensation issued to employees and Board Members
as of the date of grant is amortized to compensation expense
over the vesting period. Certain stock options and restricted
stock units are subject to variable accounting. See information
regarding recent accounting standards below and Note 13 for
further discussion of the stock-based compensation plans.

If compensation expense for our stock option plans and Employee
Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) had been determined based
on the fair value at the grant dates as defined by
SFAS No. 123 and amended by SFAS No. 148,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation —
Transition and Disclosure — An Amendment of FASB
No. 123

, our pro forma loss from continuing operations
and loss per share from continuing operations would have been as
follows:

For purposes of this pro forma information, the weighted-average
fair value of the 15% discount received by employees on the date
that stock was purchased under the ESPP was $2.03, $1.88 and
$3.21 per share in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and
is included in the total fair value of stock-based employee
compensation expense.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
following assumptions:




Expected option lives

6 years

6 years

6 years

Risk free interest rate

4.0

%

3.3

%

4.7

%

Expected volatility

44.7

%

43.9

%

35.8

%

Dividend yield

0.0

%

0.0

%

1.6

%

Weighted-average option grant price

$

14.19

$

10.59

$

26.41

Weighted-average fair value of options granted

$

6.91

$

4.96

$

9.76

Recent Accounting Standards

In May 2005, SFAS No. 154,

Accounting Changes and
Error Corrections

, was issued, which replaces APB Opinion
No. 20,

Accounting Changes

, and
SFAS No. 3,

Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim
Financial Statements

. Among other changes,
SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application of a
voluntary change in accounting principle to prior period
financial statements presented on the new accounting principle,
unless it is impracticable to determine either the
period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change.
SFAS No. 154 also requires accounting for a change in
method of depreciating or amortizing a long-lived nonfinancial
asset as a change in accounting estimate
(prospectively) affected by a change in accounting
principle. Further, the Statement requires that corrections of
errors in previously issued financial statements be termed a
“restatement.” The new standard is effective for
accounting changes and error corrections made in fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect the
adoption of SFAS No. 154 to have a material impact on
our Consolidated Balance Sheet or Statement of Operations.

In March 2005, FASB Interpretation (“FIN”)
No. 47,

Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations

, was issued, an interpretation of
SFAS No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations.

FIN No. 47 clarifies the timing of
liability recognition for legal obligations associated with the
retirement of a tangible long-lived asset when the timing and/or
method of settlement are conditional on a future event. The
provisions of FIN No. 47 are effective no later than
December 31, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of
FIN No. 47 to have a material impact on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet or Statement of Operations.

In December 2004, SFAS No. 123R (revised 2004),

Share-Based Payment

, was issued, which replaces
SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.

SFAS No. 123R requires all share-based payments to
employees, including grants of employee stock options and the
shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan, to be
recognized in the financial statements based on their fair
values, as of the beginning of the first fiscal year that starts
after June 15, 2005. We are required to adopt
SFAS No. 123R effective January 1, 2006. The pro
forma disclosures previously permitted under
SFAS No. 123 will no longer be an alternative to
financial statement recognition. In March 2005, Staff Accounting
Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 107,

Share-Based
Payment

, was issued regarding the SEC’s interpretation
of SFAS No. 123R and the valuation of share-based
payments for public companies. We are evaluating the
requirements of SFAS No. 123R and
SAB No. 107. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R
may have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial
Statements. At adoption, we plan to use the modified prospective
method which requires expense recognition for all unvested and
outstanding awards and any awards granted thereafter.

In December 2004, SFAS Staff Position (“FSP”)
No. 109-2,

Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the
Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004

, was issued, which provides guidance
under SFAS No. 109,

Accounting for Income
Taxes

, with respect to



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

recording the potential impact of the repatriation provisions of
the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs
Act”) on enterprises’ income tax expense and deferred
tax liability. We have reviewed the provisions and, at this
time, we have determined not to repatriate undistributed
earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. under this
provision. Accordingly, we will not adjust our tax expense or
deferred tax liability to reflect these provisions. However, we
will continue to monitor our circumstances and if there is a
change which will make the use of this provision advantageous,
we will be able to adopt it prior to December 31, 2005.

In December 2004, SFAS No. 153,

Exchanges of
Nonmonetary Assets

, was issued, an amendment of APB Opinion
No. 29,

Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions.

SFAS No. 153 is based on the principle that exchanges
of nonmonetary assets should be recorded and measured at the
fair value of the assets exchanged. APB Opinion No. 29
provided an exception to its basic measurement principle (fair
value) for exchanges of similar productive assets. Under APB
Opinion No. 29, an exchange of a productive asset for a
similar productive asset was based on the recorded amount of the
asset relinquished. SFAS No. 153 eliminates this
exception and replaces it with exceptions for exchanges of
nonmonetary assets that do not have reasonably determinable fair
values or commercial substance. SFAS No. 153 is
effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in reporting
periods beginning after June 15, 2005. We are required to
adopt SFAS No. 153 effective July 1, 2005. We do
not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 153 to have a
material impact on our Consolidated Balance Sheet or Statement
of Operations.

In September 2004, the EITF reached a consensus on the guidance
provided by EITF 04-8,

The Effect of Contingently
Convertible Instruments on Diluted Earnings per Share.

The
guidance requires that contingently convertible instruments
(including debt securities) with a market price conversion
trigger be included in diluted EPS computations, regardless of
whether the market price conversion trigger has been met. We
implemented the requirements of EITF 04-8 for the quarter
and fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. The adoption of
EITF 04-8 requires that we include approximately
64.4 shares in our calculation of diluted EPS to reflect
the assumed conversion of our 4.50% Convertible Senior
Notes in periods when dilutive. Pursuant to EITF 04-8, the
impact of these shares are included in the diluted EPS
computations (if dilutive) regardless of whether the market
price conversion trigger (or other contingent feature) has been
met.

In May 2004, FSP No. 106-2 was issued, which supersedes FSP
No. 106-1 and provides guidance on accounting for the
effects of the Medicare prescription legislation provided by the
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003 (the “Act”). We currently provide postretirement
health care benefits to employees who were employed by us as of
January 1, 1988 and life insurance benefits to employees
who were employed by us as of December 1, 1961. For these
employees, the prescription drug benefit provided would be
considered to be actuarially equivalent to the benefit provided
under the Act. FSP No. 106-1,

Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003

, was issued in
January 2004 and permits a sponsor of a postretirement health
care plan that provides a prescription drug benefit that is
actuarially equivalent to the benefit specified under Medicare,
known as “Medicare (Part D)”, to make a one-time
election to defer accounting for the effects of the new
legislation. The implementation of FSP No. 106-2 did not
have a material impact on our Consolidated Balance Sheet or
Statement of Operations.

In April 2004, FSP No. 129-1,

Disclosure Requirements
under FASB Statement No. 129, Disclosure of Information
about Capital Structure, Relating to Contingently Convertible
Securities

was issued, which provides additional guidance on
the disclosure requirements of contingently convertible
securities. FSP No. 129-1 requires expanded disclosures of the
significant terms of the conversion features of these securities
to enable users of financial statements to understand the
circumstances of the contingencies and the potential impact of
conversion. These additional disclosures are presented for our
contingently convertible securities in Note 11.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

In 2003, SFAS Interpretation No. 46

, Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB
No. 51

(“FIN No. 46”), was issued
along with certain revisions
(“FIN No. 46R”), which addressed the
consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest
entities (“VIEs”). We adopted the provisions of these
interpretations effective December 31, 2003 and have
consolidated certain entities meeting the definition of VIEs.
Inclusion of these entities, which were included effective
January 1, 2004, did not have a material impact on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet or Statement of Operations. However,
we have a 49% equity interest in a small advertising agency in
which we invested approximately $7.0 and advanced approximately
$8.0 of loans. Based on the criteria set out in
FIN No. 46 and revised by FIN No. 46R, it
was determined that the entity is a variable interest entity and
further, since we are the primary beneficiary, the entity should
be consolidated. We have not consolidated this entity as we are
unable to obtain the necessary detailed financial information.
We wrote off both the investment and the loans receivable from
the entity in 2003 and have no further financial commitments or
risks associated with this investment. The annual revenues of
the entity approximate $14.0 and we believe that the entity is
not material to our financial position.

The adoption of the following accounting pronouncements during
2004 did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Balance
Sheet or Statement of Operations: SFAS No. 132R
(revised 2003),

Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions
and Other Postretirement Benefits — An Amendment of
FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106

; and EITF 03-1,

The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its
Application to Certain Investments.

Note 2:

Restatement of Previously Issued Financial
    Statements

In connection with our work to comply with Section 404 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we identified errors in our
accounting and previously reported financial results. In March
2005, we announced that we would delay filing our Annual Report
on Form 10-K, and began a comprehensive review of
previously reported financial information. The scope of our
review included the analysis of accounting for acquisitions,
revenue and leases, internal investigations into potential
employee misconduct, as well as other miscellaneous areas
impacted by the identified material weaknesses. The review,
conducted under the direction of our senior management with the
oversight of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,
included our operating agencies and consisted of an extensive
examination of financial information and significant
transactions.

Our procedures were substantially manual and involved hundreds
of our employees and external consultants and took over six
months to complete. These procedures included examining the
accounting for more than 400 acquisitions, leases at
approximately 370 entities, approximately 10,000 account
reconciliations and account analyses and over 300,000
intercompany transactions, as well as a comprehensive review of
over 20,000 client contracts with respect to timing of revenue
recognition, vendor related discounts or credits and income
statement classification. In addition, we are in various stages
of completing approximately 50 internal investigations
addressing employee misconduct predominantly outside the US. In
order to complete this work, we have hired or replaced hundreds
of temporary and permanent accountants. Management believes the
scope and process of its internal review of previously reported
financial information was sufficient to identify issues of a
material nature that could affect our Consolidated Financial
Statements and all dates and periods presented herein have been
restated to fairly present the results of our operations.

The errors in our previously reported financial information, and
the failure to prevent them or detect them in our financial
reporting process, were largely attributable to weak internal
controls, our decentralized operational structure, general lack
of compliance with our policies and procedures, numerous
disparate operating information technology systems, inadequate
oversight by management at various levels within our
organization, and an inadequate staff of competent accounting
personnel with an appropriate



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

level of knowledge of GAAP. We concluded that our control
environment has not progressed sufficiently to serve as an
effective foundation for all other components of internal
control.

As a result of our review, we determined that a restatement of
previously reported financial information was required. Our
previously reported financial information should no longer be
relied upon. Accordingly, we have restated our previously
reported financial information for the years ended
December 31, 2003 and 2002 and our previously reported
unaudited financial statements for the first, second and third
quarters of 2004 and 2003 (the “restatement”). The
restatement also affects periods prior to 2002, which is
reflected as an adjustment to opening retained earnings as of
January 1, 2002. The restatement covers a number of
separate matters, each of which is described below.

The law firm of Dewey Ballantine LLP was retained to advise the
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors regarding the
discharge of its obligations. The scope of the Dewey Ballantine
work included oversight of the internal investigations into
potential employee misconduct being conducted by our internal
audit group and the overall restatement process conducted by
management. Dewey Ballantine retained a forensic accounting firm
to assist with its work involving the internal investigations
and review of the overall restatement process.

For the quarterly impact of the restatement issue and the
restated financial results for the first, second and third
quarters of 2004, see Note 20, Results by Quarter.

The following tables summarize the impact of all of these
adjustments on previously reported revenue; net income (loss)
from continuing operations and earnings per share; and assets,
liabilities, and retained stockholders’ equity.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Description of Restatement Adjustments:

Revenue Recognition

Revenue Recognition related to Vendor Discounts or
    Credits:

We receive rebates, discounts, and other credits from our
vendors and media outlets for the acquisitions of goods and
services that are entered into on behalf of our clients. The
expenses include the purchase of various forms of media,
including television, radio, and print advertising space, or
production costs, such as the creation of advertising campaigns,
commercials, and print advertisements. Revenues in the
advertising and communicative services business are frequently
recorded net of third party costs as the business is primarily
an agent for its clients. Since these costs are billed to
clients, there are times when vendor discounts, credits, or
price differences can affect the net revenue recorded by the
agency. These third party discounts, rebates, or price
differences are frequently referred to as credits.

Our contracts are typically “fixed fee arrangements”
or “cost-based arrangements.” In “fixed fee
arrangements,” the amount we charge our clients is
comprised of a fee for our services. The fee we earn, however,
is not affected by the level of expenses incurred. Therefore,
any rebates or credits received in servicing these accounts do
not create a liability to the client. In “cost-based
arrangements,” we earn a percentage commission or flat fee
based on or incremental to the expenses incurred. In these
cases, rebates or credits received may accrue to the benefit of
our clients and create a liability payable to the client. The
implication and interpretation of cost language included in our
contracts can vary across international and domestic markets in
which we operate and can affect whether or not we have a
liability to the client.

Without adequate contract review procedures the operating
practice and the accounting in some of our agencies,
predominantly outside the United States, relied on local customs
and practices. As a result, in some instances, our accounting
for the vendor discount was inconsistent with the underlying
contractual requirements, which necessitated accounting
adjustments. To correct for improperly recorded revenue, we have
established a liability to refund these credits, discounts and
rebates to our customers in accordance with our contractual
obligations.

As part of the restatement, we have performed an extensive
review of our client contracts and local law to determine the
impact of improperly recognizing these media and vendor credits
as additional revenue instead of recognizing a liability to our
clients. We have determined our exposure to each type of these
credits by agency, reviewed our legal obligations considering
our client contracts and local law, and



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

established a liability as necessary. Where it was impractical
to review client contracts we have estimated our exposure. If
facts change, we may need to adjust our liability.

In order to remediate this issue, we are in the process of
issuing a formal policy to require proper transparency in our
contracts, and proper handling and accounting for these types of
vendor discounts or credits received in the normal course of
business.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2002; we have
recorded an adjustment of $72.2 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2002 related to vendor discounts or credits.

Revenue Recognition related to
Customer Contracts:

We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement
exists, there is fixed and determinable pricing, and upon
completion of the earnings process in accordance with the terms
of the arrangement with our clients, which is generally as
services are performed and/or when the media placements appear.

For project based arrangements, revenue is recognized based upon
the agreement that we have in place with our customers. Our fees
are generally recognized as earned, based on the proportional
performance method of revenue recognition in situations where
our fee is reconcilable to the actual hours incurred to service
the client, as detailed in a contractual staffing plan, or where
the fee is earned on a per hour basis, with the amount of
revenue recognized in both situations limited to the amount
realizable per the terms of the client contract. Where it is
determined that the contractual staffing plan is incomplete or
there is no staffing plan, we defer the recognition of revenue
until the period in which all work is completed. For
retainer-based arrangements, fees are recognized on a straight
line or monthly basis when service is provided, essentially on a
pro rata basis, and the terms of the contract support that
accounting. We require explicit language in the contract
evidencing that our obligation to the client for services
rendered is satisfied on a monthly basis. We evaluate the
termination provisions of the contract for a determination of
amounts realizable at an interim date. Where it is determined
that the terms of the contract do not clearly support monthly
recognition of revenue, we defer the recognition of revenue
until the period in which all work is completed.

In certain transactions with our customers the persuasive
evidence of the customer arrangement was not always adequate to
support revenue recognition, or the timing of revenue
recognition did not appropriately follow the specific contract
terms. As part of our review, we reviewed significant client
contracts to ensure that revenue was recognized in accordance
with the terms of the contract and with our policies as outlined
above.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

We have established the following terms as the specific criteria
to be followed consistently across our global operating
divisions. For adequate persuasive evidence of arrangements, we
required signed contractual agreements or in lieu of a signed
contract, other evidence or documentation from our customers was
required in the period in which revenue was recognized. This
evidence was required to define our compensation, to give a
clear indication of how revenue was to be earned, and describe
how our obligation to the client was to be satisfied. In the
absence of persuasive evidence of an arrangement or detailed
invoices indicating the level of services performed were not
available, we deferred the recognition of revenue for the entire
contract, until we could assure that all internal work was
completed and cash was received. Where it was determined that
persuasive evidence was lacking or insufficient, we deferred the
recognition of revenue until that period in which persuasive
evidence was obtained, cash was received accompanied by a
detailed customer invoice, or all work was completed.

In connection with the restatement, we have established a formal
policy with specific guidelines and tools as to how revenue
should be recorded under the following bases: proportional
performance, monthly, completed contract, or in accordance with
other quantitative or qualitative goals as specified by the
contract. We also plan to create a central tracking system that
will detail all arrangements with clients which will assist in
ensuring that all criteria for proper revenue recognition are
met and properly classified.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2002; we have
recorded an adjustment of $54.3 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2002 related to customer contracts.

Accounting for Reimbursement of Out-of-Pocket Expenses:

We incur incidental out-of-pocket expenses in the course of
providing services to our clients, for which we are reimbursed
by our clients. These relate to travel, meals, and other
incidental expenses. Under EITF 01-14,

Income Statement
Characterization of Reimbursements Received for
“Out-of-Pocket” Expenses Incurred,

the
reimbursements should be recorded as revenue and operating
expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

Prior to 2004, we incorrectly recorded some of these
reimbursements of out-of-pocket expenses as a reduction of
operating expenses. The effect was to report both revenue and
expense net of these out-of-pocket expenses and reimbursements.
In 2004, we established a formal policy detailing the proper
classification of these expense reimbursements.

We reviewed significant activity for all financial periods prior
to 2004 to identify instances in which this error was made. In
the restatement, we have reported client reimbursements of
out-of-pocket expenses as revenue in all periods. Compared to
our previously published Consolidated Financial Statements, the



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

effect of the restatement is to increase revenue and expense
amounts, with no effect on operating income, and to reduce
operating margin in percentage terms.

Gross versus Net Revenue Presentation:

We incur and pay certain expenses on behalf of our clients
typically relating to the cost of media purchases or production
work. We invoice our clients for these expenses in addition to
our fees for services provided. EITF 99-19,

Reporting
Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent,

sets
forth criteria for the judgment whether revenue should be
recognized based on the gross amount billed to the customer or
net of amounts paid to suppliers. Because we are broadly
considered an advertising agency based on our primary lines of
business and only in certain situations would we record revenue
other than on a net basis. Accordingly, we generally record
revenue net of pass-through charges as we believe the relative
strength of the key indicators, taken as a whole, suggest we
generally act as an agent on behalf of our clients in our
primary lines of business.

We reviewed our lines of business and evaluated our status as a
principal or agent, and we reviewed significant transactions to
ensure the proper accounting for revenue. We assessed whether
the agency or the third-party supplier is the primary obligor
for services provided to the client. We evaluated the terms of
our client agreements as part of this assessment. In addition we
gave appropriate consideration to other key indicators, such as
latitude in establishing price and discretion in supplier
selection, and less consideration to others, such as credit risk.

We determined that for certain of our businesses, primarily
sales promotion, event, sports and entertainment marketing and
corporate and brand identity services, the relative strength of
the indicators suggests we act as a principal. Accordingly,
under EITF 99-19, we accounted for revenue on a net basis
in error. In the restatement, for those businesses we have
recorded the gross amount billed to the client as revenue
consistently on a historical basis. Compared to our previously
published Consolidated Financial Statements, the effect of the
restatement is to increase revenue and expense by equal amounts,
with no effect on operating income or balance sheet accounts,
and to reduce operating margin in percentage terms.

We have defined specific criteria which our personnel can use to
evaluate whether we are acting as a principal or an agent in
their arrangements with clients.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements for the
Accounting for Out-of-Pocket Expenses and Gross versus Net
Revenue Presentation is presented in the following table:

Impact of

Revenue Presentation

Restatement

Increase (Decrease) for the Years Ended and as of December 31,



Consolidated Statement of Operations:

Revenue

355.6

358.5

Accounting for Acquisitions

Future Obligations related to Prior Acquisitions:

The terms of our acquisitions generally provide for initial
payment on the date of sale and contingent amounts over
succeeding years, calculated based on the growth and financial
performance of the business or the retention of key personnel.
As a result, we maintain contingent obligations related to
acquisitions made in prior years, such as deferred payments and
put options. Deferred payments, or “earn-outs,”
generally tie the aggregate price ultimately paid for an
acquisition to the business’ performance and are included
in the terms of the original purchase to minimize our risk
associated with potential future negative changes in the
performance of the acquired entity during the post-acquisition
transition period.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Earn-outs are typically contingent upon the achievement of
projected operating performance targets, as specified in the
purchase contract. For those acquisitions where we purchase
partial ownership interest in a business, there are often
matching put and call options issued. These put and call options
are not fixed, rather they are based on a formula that
approximates fair value. Put options require us to purchase
additional equity interests in the future. Put option amounts to
be paid are typically accounted for when the put option is
exercised, except in instances where put option payments are
specifically contingent upon the future employment of key
personnel, in which case compensation expense is accrued prior
to when the related put option is exercised. Call options
entitle us to acquire additional equity interests in the future.
Call option amounts to be paid are contingent upon our decision
to exercise our option. Therefore, purchases of additional
interests related to call options are accounted for when the
related call option is exercised.

In accounting for acquisitions, we recognize deferred payments
and purchases of additional interests after the effective date
of purchase, as an increase to goodwill and other intangibles,
or as compensation expense, depending on the terms of the
purchase contract. EITF 95-8,

Accounting for Contingent
Consideration Paid to the Shareholders of an Acquired Enterprise
in a Purchase Business Combination,

provides criteria for
this determination. In some instances, earn-out or put option
payments were not properly accounted for as compensation
expense. The effect of this error was to understate compensation
expense and, in most instances, to overstate goodwill.

We reviewed our acquisitions through 2004, including all
contingent future obligations as of December 31, 2004, and
we have recorded adjustments to compensation expense and
goodwill in periods where contingent acquisition obligations
were recorded inappropriately.

We will require that future acquisition-related transactions be
approved by our operating management as well as members of our
Controllers, Corporate Development and Tax groups prior to
execution of the related agreement. Our central repository of
related information has been reviewed for completeness and
accuracy and updated to ensure that it contains critical files
and data. We plan to update our policies concerning the proper
accounting for future obligations related to our acquisitions.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2002; we have
recorded an adjustment of $29.2 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2002.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table:

Pre-Acquisition Earnings:

It was not uncommon during the period 1996 through 2002 for us
to account for the revenues and expenses of certain entities
acquired from a point in time that was earlier than the date of
closing. In those



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

cases we incorrectly recorded the acquired business’
revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Financial Statements
for that year as of January 1, although the acquisition
closed subsequent to that date, typically in the latter half of
the year. This incorrect recognition of revenue and expenses
prior to the closing date was recorded either as an adjustment
in the month of purchase, or by adjusting prior months’
accounting results. As a result of these misstatements of
revenues and expenses, we recorded additional goodwill on our
balance sheet to offset the increase to income. In doing so, we
recorded amortization expense on an inflated goodwill balance
until the adoption of SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets,

at January 1, 2002, when we
ceased amortizing goodwill.

As part of the restatement, we reviewed financial books and
records associated with the accounting at the time of
acquisition and utilized quantitative analytics to understand
revenue and expenses recorded related to the acquisition. As a
result of our review we identified 142 acquisitions where we had
inappropriately recognized earnings prior to our effective legal
ownership of the acquired entities.

We have calculated the impact of this incorrect practice through
the review of purchase contracts for the substantial majority of
acquisitions made since 1996. For those entities identified as
having recorded pre-acquisition earnings, we identified the
actual closing date of each acquisition and used this as the
cutoff date to determine the amount of pre-acquisition earnings
improperly recorded. For those entities identified with
pre-acquisition earnings recognition, we also adjusted the
goodwill balance for the error. Since the goodwill balance was
misstated we also recalculated the appropriate amortization of
goodwill from the date of acquisition.

We have also created a central repository for acquisition data.
Accounting for all future acquisitions will be reviewed and
evaluated with the appropriate management oversight prior to the
acquisition being finalized and must include members of our
Controllers, Treasury, Corporate Development and Tax groups to
prevent this type of inappropriate accounting in future periods.

We have recorded adjustments as part of the restatement to
reduce our consolidated revenues, expenses and goodwill balances
in the years where pre-acquisition earnings were recorded
inappropriately. We have also made adjustments to amortization
expense that was recorded on our misstated goodwill balance.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2002; we have
recorded an adjustment of $30.2 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2002 related to pre-acquisition earnings
recognition.

Internal Investigations

Instances of possible employee misconduct have come to our
attention through our anti-fraud program, internal and external
audit work, and the expanded scope of our work on the
restatement. Our



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

corporate risk management group investigates these matters,
frequently with the assistance of outside forensic accountants
and legal counsel. It prepares a written report documenting the
investigation, its findings, and recommended actions. The report
is then presented to corporate management and the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors for review. If we conclude
that there has been misconduct, we take appropriate personnel
action, which may include termination, and if recommended by
counsel, we notify the appropriate governmental and regulatory
authorities of violations of law, and take legal action if
appropriate to recover our losses.

The restatement includes the correction of certain unintentional
errors in our accounting that were discovered as a result of
these investigations and primarily relate to agencies outside
the United States. However, certain of these investigations
revealed instances of deliberate falsification of accounting
records, evasion of taxes in jurisdictions outside the United
States, inappropriate charges to clients, diversion of corporate
assets, non-compliance with local laws and regulations, and
other improprieties. These errors were not prevented or detected
earlier because of material weaknesses in our control
environment and decentralized operating structure. In a number
of these cases, the activities appear to have had the purpose of
improving the reported financial performance of the operating
unit involved. In a number of cases, we believe the purpose
included reducing the personal tax burdens of the individuals
involved.

In an effort to improve our internal control over financial
reporting relating to employee misconduct, we have developed an
extensive remediation plan. This plan includes specific
responses to the findings of each of the internal investigations
referred to below, as well as an enhanced, Company-wide
compliance program. The remediation plan has been developed by
management in consultation with outside advisors and has been
approved by the Audit Committee.

The table below sets forth the impact of this element of the
restatement on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The
restatement also reflects periods prior to 2002; we have
recorded an adjustment of $15.7 in our retained earnings at
January 1, 2002.

We believe that the liabilities we have recognized relating to
the investigations are our best estimate of our ultimate
liability based on the facts and documents reviewed to date.
While the vast majority of the investigations have yielded
adjustments to our prior period financial statements reflected
in the restatement, several of them are still continuing, and
others may arise in the future. Management has recorded its best
estimate of probable exposure based on the facts that it had at
the time. We cannot predict what any ongoing investigation may
uncover and what, if any, remedial actions may have to be taken.
It is possible that we will be required to pay material fines,
penalties, interest or other amounts associated with these
investigations.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Below is a summary of the cases that we have investigated that
have resulted in a restatement of our prior period financial
results greater than $5.0. These instances represent
approximately 80% of the aggregate cumulative adjustments
recorded as a result of our internal investigations.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

benefits that should have been returned to clients or vendors.
    We have terminated and/or replaced financial and operating
    management.

•

We have recorded adjustments with a cumulative impact on net
    income for the years 2002 through 2004 of $8.6 relating to
    errors identified at five McCann agencies in Azerbaijan,
    Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Bulgaria and Kazakhstan. These errors were
    attributable to failure to record and pay compensation-related
    taxes, value added taxes and corporate income taxes, and to
    inadequate record keeping. Management in these jurisdictions
    paid certain employees as contractors, often in cash, without
    accounting for the payments. In three of these countries, income
    and expenses were recorded by a service company located outside
    those jurisdictions to avoid corporate tax or value added tax.
    We have sold or are in the process of selling all of these
    entities. In the case of the Ukraine, we plan on signing an
    affiliation agreement with the management there with appropriate
    controls in place to assure our business is properly conducted.

In addition, the other investigations that had an impact of less
than $5.0 each have resulted in adjustments with a cumulative
impact on net income for the years 2004 through 2002 of $11.9.
The errors were similar in nature to those described above. We
have terminated, or are in the process of terminating, the
employees involved in these occurrences.

Review of International Compensation
    Arrangements

Over the past 18 months, we have undertaken an extensive
review of employment compensation practices across our
organization. While most practices were found to be acceptable,
we have identified some practices in certain jurisdictions that
required additional review. The key areas are as follows:

Personal Service Companies.

The advertising industry and
many other service industries frequently make use of
freelancers, who are typically treated as independent
contractors and not subjected to the regulations that apply to
an employee-employer relationship. In certain instances,
particularly in Europe and Latin America, it is common for
individuals to establish a personal service company
(“PSC”), in which case the hiring company will
normally contract directly with the PSC for the services of the
individual. In every jurisdiction that was reviewed, PSC
arrangements are legal and often customary and socially
acceptable. However, in certain circumstances, if the individual
does not meet the established criteria, the PSC structure is not
a permissible vehicle and could result in an avoidance of
personal income tax and social tax by the individual and, in the
case of the company, an avoidance of social tax. We reviewed
every situation where one of our agencies had contracted with a
PSC and determined that in a number of instances, the use of a
PSC was not supportable.

Payment of Personal Expenses Outside the Normal Payroll
Mechanism.

We have also identified in certain countries,
including some in which such a practice was customary and
socially acceptable, instances where expenses that can be
considered personal in nature were reimbursed to an individual
employee outside the payroll mechanism. The practice resulted in
the payment not being reported through the normal payroll system
and no appropriate tax withholdings being made. We have
identified those instances where we believe such practice should
have been reported through the payroll system.

Split Salary Payments.

We identified certain instances
where an individual employee received compensation from a
jurisdiction outside the jurisdiction in which he was primarily
employed (home country). In such instances, the paying company
normally would not report or withhold local income tax on such
salary payments, relying on the employee to report and remit the
appropriate taxes to the country of employment. We have
identified those instances where either the paying entity or the
local employing entity had an affirmative obligation to report
and withhold personal income and social taxes.

Equity Grants and Retirement Payments.

In a number of
instances we identified stock option and restricted stock or
retirement annuities granted to employees outside the US and
upon exercise or vesting,



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

neither the US company nor the local company reported the
compensation arising therefrom or withheld applicable local tax.
Instead the agency notified each employee of the employee’s
obligation to report and withhold in the respective local
country of residence or employment. We have identified certain
jurisdictions where we or the local employing agency should have
withheld on or reported the compensation to the local
authorities.

Independent Contractor/ Employees.

A common issue in our
industry is the retention of services by individuals in the
capacity of an independent contractor instead of as an employee.
There are specific criteria in every jurisdiction in which we do
business which establish whether an individual is to be
characterized as an employee or as an independent contractor. In
a number of instances we have identified individuals who were
classified as independent contractors but should have been
considered employees.

As it relates to the five issues, Personal Service Companies,
payment of personal expenses outside the normal payroll
mechanism, split salary payments, equity grants and retirement
payments, and independent contractors/employees, we have
recorded adjustments with a cumulative impact on net income for
the years 2002 through 2003 of $16.6, of which $6.7 is related
to PSCs.

The table below sets forth the impact of this element of the
restatement on our Consolidated Financial Statements for the
years 2002 through 2004. The restatement also reflects periods
prior to 2002; we have recorded an adjustment of $9.0 in our
retained earnings at January 1, 2002.

Accounting for Lease Related Expenses

Substantially all of our office space is leased from third
parties. Certain of our lease contracts contain rent holidays,
various escalation clauses, or landlord/tenant incentives. While
it is our policy to record leases properly, in some instances we
did not account for these lease provisions in accordance with
GAAP, specifically, SFAS No. 13,

Accounting for
Leases

, FTB 85-3,

Accounting for Operating Leases with
Scheduled Rent Increases

, FTB 88-1,

Issues Related to
Accounting for Leases

, and SFAS No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.

In
particular: we recorded rent expense for operating leases on a
cash basis, without consideration for rent holidays; we did not
appropriately record or amortize landlord/tenant incentives, and
in some cases, netted reimbursements with leasehold improvement
assets; we did not properly record or amortize leasehold
improvements over the appropriate periods, and in some cases,
inappropriately amortized leasehold improvement over terms that
included assumptions of lease renewals; we did not completely or
accurately record asset retirement obligations related to
leasehold improvement assets; and for lease properties that were
part of either our 2001 or 2003 restructuring programs, these
errors also impacted amounts previously recorded for
restructuring.

We have reviewed our significant lease arrangements in place as
of December 31, 2004. We reviewed rental costs, including
costs related to fixed rent escalation clauses and rent
holidays, and correctly



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

recorded them on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We
ensured that landlord/tenant incentives are recorded as
leasehold improvement assets and amortized over the shorter of
the economic useful life or the lease term. We ensured that
funds received are recorded as deferred rent and amortized as
reductions to rent expense over the lease term. For leasehold
improvements, we recorded adjustments to amortize the related
assets over the shorter of the economic useful life or the lease
term, and ensured that the lease renewal is “reasonably
assured” as that term is contemplated by
SFAS No. 13 when the amortization period includes a
renewal period. We ensured that asset retirement obligations are
recorded completely and accurately in the period in which they
are incurred and a reasonable estimate of fair value can be
made, and that the amortization of the asset and accretion of
the discounted liability is recognized ratably over the useful
life of the leasehold improvement asset. For leased properties
that were part of either our 2001 or 2003 restructuring
programs, we ensured that prior period rent costs have been
recorded on a straight-line basis prior to time of restructuring
and that deferred rent credit balances have been appropriately
taken into consideration in the calculation of the related
restructuring reserve at time of restructuring.

We have established specific guidelines to assist personnel in
analyzing and recording lease related expenses in the
Consolidated Statement of Operation.

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2002; we have
recorded an adjustment of $31.3 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2002 related to lease expenses.

Other Adjustments

We have identified other adjustments to our Consolidated
Financial Statements which do not conform to GAAP. We had
previously not performed account reconciliations timely. As a
result of the restatement we reconciled significant balance
sheet and income statement accounts and determined that some
accounts required adjustment. In our examination of accounts, we
have identified a number of matters that require correction, the
most significant of which are discussed below.

Tax Provision:

We reviewed a global licensing structure
in the Octagon Group that it had inherited in an acquisition of
a group of foreign entities in 1998, and determined that we had
incorrectly reported income for statutory and income tax
purposes for all years since acquisition. Based on established
transfer pricing principles, we have determined that a portion
of that income reported partially within the UK and the US, was
subject to higher tax rates. We have disclosed this error to the
respective tax authorities in the US and UK. The corrected
amount of tax of the years 1998 through 2003 including tax and
penalties has been accrued and is shown in Provision for Taxes.

Deconsolidation of Entities:

We noted several instances
where an entity was fully consolidated in error. In these cases,
the entity was erroneously consolidated in financial results for
certain years for which



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

we did not have effective control of the entity, and accordingly
in the restatement, we recorded an adjustment to deconsolidate
these entities for those years.

Pension Expense associated with Foreign Plans:

Adjustments were recorded to properly state the pension expense
associated with foreign plans for all years presented. Such
adjustments resulted in increased pension expense for previously
unidentified plans.

Goodwill and Investment Impairments:

Adjustments were
necessary to reclass goodwill and investment impairments in the
appropriate periods where the triggering event was identified to
have occurred. Certain impairments had been recorded in
subsequent periods and were accounted for in the appropriate
periods.

Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments:

Adjustments
were made to properly state the foreign currency translation
adjustment and the foreign currency gains or losses accounts for
all periods. Certain adjustments that had been recorded in wrong
periods have now been accounted for in the appropriate periods.

Classification Revisions:

Adjustments were made to
reclassify certain balance sheet, income and expense account
balances for consistent application of GAAP and our policies and
procedures. Such reclassification adjustments included the
presentation of bank overdrafts as a liability rather than a
credit balance in an asset account, intercompany accounts that
had been incorrectly recorded as accounts receivable, accounts
payable or other non-intercompany accounts, reclassifications of
long-term and short-term assets and liabilities and other
miscellaneous income and expense account reclassifications.
Certain adjustments had been recorded in subsequent periods and
were accounted for in the appropriate periods.

Auction rate securities have been reclassified from cash
equivalents to short-term marketable securities for each of the
periods presented in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet
based upon our evaluation of the maturity dates associated with
the underlying bonds. Auction rate securities are variable rate
bonds tied to short-term interest rates with maturities on the
face of the securities in excess of 90 days. Auction rate
securities have interest rate resets, at predetermined
short-term intervals, usually between 7 and 35 days. They
trade at par and are callable at par on any interest payment
date at the option of the issuer. Interest paid during a given
period is based upon the interest rate determined during the
prior auction. Although these securities are issued and rated as
long-term bonds, they are priced and traded as short-term
instruments because of the significant degree of market
liquidity provided through the interest rate resets. We had
previously classified these instruments as cash equivalents if
the period between interest rate resets was 90 days or less.

Other Adjustments:

We also have corrected certain known
errors that were previously not recorded because in each such
case we believed at the time that the amount of any such error
was not material to our consolidated financial statements.
Principally, these types of adjustments consist of numerous
minor items. We wrote off unsubstantiated balances related to
unbillable third party charges, the reversal of over accrued job
costs, and fixed asset write-offs for items that should not have
been capitalized, could not be accounted for or were not in use.

As part of our remediation of our material control weaknesses,
we are in the process of hiring additional personnel with
knowledge of GAAP to assist in timely reconciliations of our
accounts, to ensure substantiation of amounts recorded,
recognition of appropriate cut-off, and management oversight of
key accounts.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements of this
element of the restatement is presented in the following table.
The restatement also affects periods prior to 2002; we have
recorded an adjustment of $34.0 to retained earnings at
January 1, 2002 related to these miscellaneous other
adjustments.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The following tables summarize the impact of the restatement on
previously reported financial information.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Note 3:

Earnings (Loss) Per Share

The following sets forth the computation of basic and diluted
earnings (loss) per share for income available to common
stockholders:

(a)

The weighted-average number of incremental shares for each of
    the following have been excluded from the computations of
    diluted earnings (loss) per share as they were anti-dilutive:

In 2004 and 2003:

•

exercise of employee stock options and conversion of non-vested
    restricted stock awards;

•

conversion of the 4.50%, 1.87%, and 1.80% Convertible Notes;

•

conversion of the Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred
    Stock;



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

In 2004 only:

•

conversion of restricted stock units;

•

contingently issuable shares outstanding issued in settlement of
    the Federal Securities Class Actions as discussed in
    Note 19;

In 2002 only:

•

exercise of employee stock options and the conversion of
    non-vested restricted stock awards; and

•

conversion of the 1.87% and 1.80% Convertible Notes.

The following table presents the weighted-average number of
incremental anti-dilutive shares excluded from the computations
of diluted earnings (loss) per share for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002:

For the Years Ended December 31,




(Restated)

(Restated)

Contingently issuable shares

1.2

—

—

Stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units

4.0

4.1

5.1

Convertible Notes

70.9

64.6

13.1

Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

26.3

0.8

—

Total

102.4

69.5

18.2

We adopted EITF 03-6,

Participating Securities and the
Two — Class Method Under FASB Statement
No. 128

, during the quarter ended June 30, 2004.
The adoption of this pronouncement had no impact on the
calculation of earnings per share for any period presented, as
the holders of the relevant securities do not participate in our
net loss.

Note 4:

Acquisitions and Dispositions

Acquisitions

The majority of our acquisitions include an initial payment at
the time of closing and provide for additional contingent
purchase price payments over a specified time. The initial
purchase price of an acquisition is allocated to identifiable
assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair
values with any excess being recorded as goodwill. These
contingent payments (“earn-outs”) are calculated based
on estimates of the future financial performance of the acquired
entity, the timing of the exercise of these rights, changes in
foreign currency exchange rates and other factors. Earn-out
payments are either recorded as an increase to goodwill and
other intangibles or expensed as compensation based on the
acquisition agreement and the terms of employment for the former
owners of the acquired businesses. Earn-out payments are
recorded within the financial statements once the contingent
acquisition obligations have been met and the consideration is
distributable.

Cash paid and stock issued for prior acquisitions are comprised
of: (i) contingent payments as described above;
(ii) further investments in companies in which we already
have an ownership interest; and (iii) other payments
related to loan notes and guaranteed deferred payments that had
been previously recognized on the balance sheet.

We completed two acquisitions during 2004, two during 2003, and
nine during 2002, none of which were significant on an
individual basis. The results of operations of these acquired
companies were included in our consolidated results from the
date of close of the transaction. We made stock payments



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

related to current acquisitions of $1.1 in 2002. We also made
stock payments related to acquisitions initiated in prior years
of $23.8, $56.2 and $83.2 during 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. Details of cash paid for new and prior
acquisitions are as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,




(Restated)

(Restated)

Cash paid for current acquisitions

$

14.6

$

4.0

$

48.2

Cash paid for prior acquisitions

161.7

221.2

240.0

Less: cash acquired

(0.9

)

(0.6

)

(11.4

)

Net cash paid for acquisitions

$

175.4

$

224.6

$

276.8

The following table includes the cash paid and stock issued for
prior acquisition that were primarily recorded as an increase to
goodwill and other intangibles in 2004 relating to companies
acquired during prior periods:

Year of Original Acquisition

Total Paid

1998 and

During

Prior







(Restated)

Cash payments for prior acquisitions

$

28.3

$

20.7

$

58.1

$

11.9

$

42.1

$

0.6

$

161.7

Stock issued for prior acquisitions

4.7

5.3

13.6

—

0.2

—

23.8

Total consideration

$

33.0

$

26.0

$

71.7

$

11.9

$

42.3

$

0.6

$

185.5

Dispositions

Motorsports

— On January 12, 2004, we
completed the sale of a business comprising the four motorsports
circuits, including Brands Hatch, Oulton Park, Cadwell Park and
Snetterton (the “four owned circuits”), owned by our
Brands Hatch subsidiaries, to MotorSport Vision Limited. The
consideration for the sale was approximately $26.0. An
additional contingent amount of approximately $4.0 may be paid
to us depending upon the future financial results of the
operations sold. We recognized a fixed asset impairment loss
related to the four owned circuits of $38.0 in the fourth
quarter of 2003. Additionally, we recognized a fixed asset
impairment of $9.6 related to the other Motorsports entities and
a capital expenditure impairment of $16.2 for outlays that
Motorsports was contractually required to spend to upgrade and
maintain certain remaining racing facilities.

On April 19, 2004, we reached an agreement with the Formula
One Administration Limited (“FOA”) to terminate and
release our respective guarantee and promoter obligations
relating to the British Grand Prix held at the Silverstone
racetrack in the United Kingdom (“UK”). Under this
agreement, we were released from our obligations following the
British Grand Prix in July 2004. In exchange for the early
termination of the obligations and liabilities, we paid a total
of $93.0 to the FOA in two installments of $46.5 each on
April 19, 2004 and May 24, 2004. A pre-tax charge of
$80.0 was recorded in Motorsports contract termination costs
related to this transaction during the second quarter of 2004,
net of approximately $13.0 in existing reserves related to the
termination of this agreement.

On July 1, 2004, the British Racing Drivers Club
(“BRDC”) agreed to vary the terms of the lease
agreement relating to the Silverstone race track and we entered
into a series of agreements regarding the potential termination
of our remaining Motorsports obligations in the UK. These
agreements gave us the right to terminate our lease obligations
at the Silverstone race track and related agreements, which we



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

exercised on November 1, 2004. In connection with these
agreements, we paid the BRDC approximately $49.0 in three
installments. The first installment of approximately $24.5 was
paid on July 1, 2004, the second installment of
approximately $16.0 was paid on September 30, 2004, and the
third installment of approximately $8.5 was paid on
October 7, 2004. As a result of these agreements, we
recorded a pre-tax charge in the third quarter of 2004 of $33.6
in Motorsports contract termination costs. This charge is net of
existing reserves of $9.9. The payments also include $5.5 in
office and general expenses reflecting the amount of lease
expense associated with our continued use of the leased property
through the third and fourth quarters of 2004. We have exited
this business and do not anticipate any additional material
charges. The table below summarizes the significant Motorsports
charges recorded for the years ended 2004, 2003 and 2002:

For the Years Ended December 31,




(Restated)

(Restated)

Long-lived asset impairment and other charges

$

3.0

$

63.8

$

127.1

Motorsports contract termination costs

113.6

—

—

Total

$

116.6

$

63.8

$

127.1

NFO

— On July 10, 2003, we completed the
sale of NFO, our research unit, to Taylor Nelson Sofres plc
(“TNS”) for $415.6 in cash ($376.7 net of cash
sold and expenses) and approximately 11.7 shares of TNS
stock that were sold in December 2003 for net proceeds of
approximately $42.0. As a result of this sale, we recognized a
pre-tax gain of $99.1 ($89.1, net of tax) in the third quarter
of 2003 after certain post closing adjustments. The TNS shares
sold resulted in a pre-tax gain of $13.3 recorded in Other
income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations. In July 2004, we received $10.0 from TNS as a final
payment with respect to the sale of NFO, which resulted in a
$6.5 gain, net of tax. The results of NFO are classified as a
discontinued operation in accordance with
SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long Lived Assets

, and, accordingly, the results
of operations and cash flows have been removed from our results
of continuing operations and cash flows for prior periods.

Income from discontinued operations consist of the following:

For the Years Ended December 31,




(Restated)

(Restated)

Revenue

$

—

$

250.1

$

466.1

Pre-tax income from discontinued operations

$

—

$

20.4

$

53.9

Tax expense

—

(8.5

)

(22.4

)

Net income

—

11.9

31.5

Gain on sale, net of taxes

6.5

89.1

—

Income from discontinued operations

$

6.5

$

101.0

$

31.5

Note 5:

Restructuring Charges

During 2004, 2003 and 2002, we recorded net expense related to
lease termination and other exit costs and severance and
termination costs for the 2003 and 2001 restructuring programs
of $62.2, $172.9 and $7.9, respectively, which included the
impact of adjustments resulting from changes in
management’s estimates as described below. The 2003 program
was initiated in response to softness in demand for advertising
and marketing services. The 2001 program was initiated following
the acquisition of True North Communications Inc. and was
designed to integrate the acquisition and improve productivity.
Total



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

inception to date net expense for the 2001 and 2003 programs
were $641.5 and $231.0, respectively. The 2003 and 2001
restructuring programs focused on decreasing our overall cost
structure mainly through total reductions in head count of
approximately 10,300 employees and through downsizing or closing
approximately 280 non-strategic or excessive office locations.
As of December 31, 2004, substantially all activities under
the 2003 and 2001 programs were completed. A summary of the net
(income) and expense by segment is as follows:

Lease termination and other exit costs

2003 Program

Net expense related to lease termination and other exit costs of
$52.1 recorded for 2004 was comprised of charges of $67.8,
partially offset by adjustments to management estimates of
$15.7. For 2003, net expense was $33.6, comprised of charges of
$41.6 offset by similar adjustments of $8.0. These charges
related to vacating 43 and 55 offices in 2004 and 2003,
respectively, located primarily in the US and Europe. Charges
were recorded at net present value and were net of estimated
sublease rental income. The discount related to lease
terminations is being amortized over the expected remaining term
of the related lease. Given the remaining life of the vacated
leased properties, cash payments are expected to be made through
2015.

In addition to amounts recorded as restructuring charges, we
recorded charges of $11.1 and $16.5 during 2004 and 2003,
respectively, related to the accelerated amortization of
leasehold improvements on properties included in the 2003
program. These charges were included in office and general
expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

2001 Program

Net (income) and expense related to lease termination and other
exit costs of ($4.3), $13.6 and $6.6, recorded for 2004, 2003
and 2002, respectively, resulted exclusively from the impact of
adjustments to management estimates. The 2001 program resulted
in approximately 180 offices being vacated worldwide. Given the
remaining life of the vacated properties, cash payments are
expected to be made through 2024.

Adjustments to Estimates

Lease termination and other exit costs for the 2003 and 2001
restructuring programs included the net impact of adjustments
for changes in management estimates to decrease the
restructuring reserves by $20.0 in 2004 and increase the reserve
by $5.6 and $6.6 in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Adjustments to
management estimates of net lease obligations included both
increases and decreases to the restructuring reserve balance as
a result of several factors. The significant factors were our
negotiation of terms upon the exit of leased properties, changes
in sublease rental income and utilization of previously vacated
properties by certain of our agencies due to improved economic
conditions in certain markets, all of which occurred during the
period recorded.

Severance and termination costs

2003 Program

Net expense related to severance and termination costs of $19.5
recorded for 2004 was comprised of charges of $26.4, partially
offset by adjustments to management estimates of $6.9. For 2003,
net expense of $125.8 was comprised of charges of $133.7 offset
by adjustments of $7.9. These charges related to a worldwide
workforce reduction of approximately 400 employees in 2004 and
2,900 in 2003. The restructuring program affected employee
groups across all levels and functions, including executive,
regional and account management and administrative, creative and
media production personnel. The majority of the severance
charges related to the US and Europe, with the remainder in Asia
and Latin America.

2001 Program

Net (income) and expense related to severance and termination
costs of ($5.1), ($0.1) and $1.3 recorded for 2004, 2003 and
2002, respectively, resulted exclusively from the impact of
adjustments to management estimates. The 2001 program related to
a worldwide reduction of approximately 7,000 employees.

Adjustments to Estimates

Severance and termination costs associated with the 2003 and
2001 restructuring programs included the net impact of
adjustments for changes in management estimates to decrease the
restructuring reserves by $12.0 and $8.0 in 2004 and 2003,
respectively, and increase the reserve by $1.3 in 2002.
Adjustments to management estimates of severance and termination
obligations included both increases and decreases to the
restructuring reserve balance as a result of several factors.
The significant factors were the decrease in the number of
terminated employees, change in amounts paid to terminated
employees and change in estimates of taxes and restricted stock
payments related to terminated employees, all of which occurred
during the period recorded.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

A summary of the remaining liability for the 2003 and 2001
restructuring programs is as follows:

(1)

Amounts represent adjustments to management estimates, as
    discussed above.

(2)

Amounts represent adjustments to the liability for changes in
    foreign currency exchange rates as well as liabilities that were
    previously maintained on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in other
    balance sheet accounts.

Severance amounts incurred outside the parameters of our
restructuring programs are recorded in the financial statements
when they become both probable and estimable. With the exception
of medical and dental benefits paid to employees who are on
long-term disability, we do not establish liabilities associated
with severance until reasonably estimable and probable. We have
recorded a liability of $6.1 and $5.5 as of December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively, related to medical and dental
benefits for employees who are on long-term disability.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Note 6:

Land, Buildings and Equipment

The following table provides a summary of the components of
land, buildings and equipment:

December 31,



(Restated)

Land and buildings

$

111.1

$

105.2

Furniture and equipment

1,038.6

1,035.1

Leasehold improvements

571.3

563.9

1,721.0

1,704.2

Less: accumulated depreciation

(998.1

)

(1,006.3

)

Land, buildings and equipment, net

$

722.9

$

697.9

Note 7:

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill

Goodwill is the excess purchase price remaining from an
acquisition after an allocation of purchase price has been made
to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on
estimated fair values. In order to determine the fair value of
net assets for new agency acquisitions, valuations are performed
based on several factors, including the type of service offered,
competitive market position, brand reputation and geographic
coverage. Considering the characteristics of advertising,
specialized marketing and communication services companies, our
acquisitions usually do not have significant amounts of tangible
and other intangible net assets. As a result, a substantial
portion of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill. Changes
to goodwill include both current year and deferred payments
related to acquisitions. We perform an annual impairment review
of goodwill as of September 30th or whenever events or
significant changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable. See Note 1 for fair value
determination and impairment testing methodologies. For more
discussion on impairment charges, refer to Note 8.

The changes in the carrying value of goodwill by segment for the
years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Other Intangible Assets

As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the net carrying value of
other intangible assets was $37.6 and $43.0, respectively.
Included in other intangible assets are assets with indefinite
lives not subject to amortization and assets with definite lives
subject to amortization. Other intangible assets include
non-compete agreements, license costs, trade names and customer
lists. The total amortization expense for the twelve months
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $6.8, $12.1 and
$9.2, respectively. These assets are reviewed annually for
impairment or whenever events or significant changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be
recoverable. See Note 1 for fair value determination and
impairment testing methodologies. For more discussion on
impairment charges, refer to Note 8. The following table
provides a summary of other intangible assets:

December 31,



(Restated)

Other intangible assets

$

63.4

$

72.8

Less: accumulated amortization

(25.8

)

(29.8

)

Other intangible assets, net

$

37.6

$

43.0

Note 8:

Long-Lived Asset Impairment and Other Charges

Long-lived assets include land, buildings, equipment, goodwill
and other intangible assets. Buildings, equipment and other
intangible assets with finite lives are depreciated or amortized
on a straight-line basis over their respective estimated useful
lives. At least annually, we review all long-lived assets for
impairment. When necessary, we record an impairment charge for
the amount that the carrying value exceeds the fair value. See
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for fair
value determination and impairment testing methodologies.

The following table summarizes the long-lived asset impairment
and other charges:

For the Years Ended December 31,




(Restated)

(Restated)

IAN

CMG

Motorsports

Total

IAN

CMG

Motorsports

Total

IAN

Motorsports

Total

Goodwill impairment

$

220.2

$

91.7

$

—

$

311.9

$

0.4

$

218.0

$

—

$

218.4

$

2.9

$

82.1

$

85.0

Fixed asset impairment

2.0

0.4

3.0

5.4

2.3

—

63.8

66.1

—

33.0

33.0

Other

4.9

—

—

4.9

9.1

0.4

—

9.5

—

12.0

12.0

Total

$

227.1

$

92.1

$

3.0

$

322.2

$

11.8

$

218.4

$

63.8

$

294.0

$

2.9

$

127.1

$

130.0

2004 Impairments

IAN

— During the third quarter of 2004,
we recorded goodwill impairment charges of approximately $220.2
at The Partnership reporting unit, which was comprised of, Lowe
Worldwide, Draft Worldwide, Mullen, Dailey & Associates and
Berenter Greenhouse Webst and $91.7 at our CMG reporting unit,
which is comprised of Weber Shandwick, Golin Harris, DeVries
Public Relations, and Octagon Worldwide FutureBrand. Our
long-term projections showed previously unanticipated declines
in discounted future operating cash flows due to recent client
losses, reduced client spending and declining industry valuation
metrics. These discounted future operating cash flow projections
caused the estimated fair values of The Partnership to be less
than their book values. The Partnership was subsequently
disbanded in the fourth quarter of 2004 and the remaining
goodwill was allocated based on the relative fair value of the
agencies at the time of disbandment. We considered the
possibility of impairment at Lowe and Draft, the two largest



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

agencies previously within The Partnership. However, at this
point we have determined that there is no discernible trigger
event for an additional impairment. We will continue to monitor
the results and, should operating performance worsen,
particularly at Lowe we may conclude that a trigger event has
occurred and impairment may then be required.

CMG

— As a result of the annual
impairment review, a goodwill impairment charge of $91.7 was
recorded at the CMG reporting unit. At our CMG reporting unit,
which is comprised of Weber Shandwick, Golin Harris, DeVries
Public Relations, and Octagon Worldwide FutureBrand, the fair
value of CMG was adversely affected by declining industry market
valuation metrics, specifically, a decrease in the EBITDA
multiples used in the underlying valuation calculations. The
impact of the lower EBITDA multiples caused the calculated fair
value of CMG goodwill to be less than the related book value.

2003 Impairments

CMG

— We recorded an impairment charge
of $218.0 to reduce the carrying value of goodwill at Octagon.
The Octagon impairment charge reflects the reduction of the
unit’s fair value due principally to poor financial
performance in 2003 and lower than expected future financial
performance. Specifically, there was significant pricing
pressure in both overseas and domestic TV rights distribution,
declining fees from athlete representation, and lower than
anticipated proceeds from committed future events, including
ticket revenue and sponsorship.

Motorsports

— We recorded fixed asset
impairment charges of $63.8, consisting of $38.0 in connection
with the sale of a business comprised of the four owned auto
racing circuits $9.6 related to the sale of other Motorsports
entities and fixed asset impairment of $16.2 for outlays that
Motorsports was contractually required to spend to improve the
racing facilities.

2002 Impairments

Motorsports

— Beginning in the second quarter
of 2002 and continuing in subsequent quarters, certain
Motorsports businesses experienced significant operational
difficulties. Some of the impairment indicators included
significantly lower than anticipated attendance at the marquee
British Grand Prix race in July 2002 and a change in management
at Motorsports in the third quarter of 2002. We performed an
impairment test and concluded that certain asset groupings of
Motorsports had a book value that exceeded their fair market
value. As a result, we recognized an impairment loss of $127.1,
which was composed of $82.1 of goodwill impairment, $33.0 of
fixed asset impairment and $12.0 of other impairment.

Note 9:

Expense and Other Income

Investment Impairment

We monitor our investments to determine whether a significant
event or changes in circumstances has occurred that may have an
adverse effect on the fair value of each investment. When an
other than temporary decline in value is deemed to have
occurred, an impairment charge is recorded to adjust the
carrying value of the investment to the estimated fair value.
See Note 1 for further discussion of fair value
determination and impairment testing methodologies.

During 2004, we recorded investment impairment charges of $63.4.
The principal component of the charges was $50.9 related to the
impairment of an unconsolidated investment in a German
advertising agency, Springer & Jacoby, as a result of a
decrease in projected operating results. Additionally, we
recorded impairment charges of $4.7 related to unconsolidated
affiliates primarily in Israel, Brazil, Japan and India, and
$7.8 related to several other available-for-sale investments.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

During 2003, we recorded $71.5 of investment impairment charges
related to 20 investments. The charge related principally to
investments in Fortune Promo 7 of $9.5 in the Middle East, Koch
Tavares of $7.7 in Latin America, Daiko of $10.0 in Japan, Roche
Macaulay Partners of $7.9 in Canada, Springer & Jacoby
of $6.5 in Germany and Global Hue of $6.9 in the US. The
majority of the impairment charges resulted from deteriorating
economic conditions in the countries in which the agencies
operate, due to the loss of one or several key clients.

During 2002, we recorded $40.3 of investment impairments
primarily related to Octagon investments. The largest component
of the write-off was a $28.4 impairment charge related to an
investment in a German soccer club based on current and
projected operating results.

Other Income (Expense)

The following table sets forth the components of other income
(expense):

For the Years Ended December 31,




(Restated)

(Restated)

(Losses) gains on sales of businesses

$

(18.2

)

$

0.3

$

(0.2

)

Gain on sale of Modem Media shares

0.8

30.3

—

Gain on sale of TNS shares

—

13.3

—

Gains on sales of other available-for-sale securities and
    miscellaneous investment income

6.7

6.4

8.5

Total

$

(10.7

)

$

50.3

$

8.3

In 2004, we recorded $18.2 of net losses on the sale of 19
agencies. The losses related primarily to the sale of Transworld
Marketing, a US-based advertising agency, which resulted in a
loss of $8.6, and a $6.2 loss for the final liquidation of the
Motorsports investment. See Note 4 for further discussion
of the Motorsports disposition.

In December 2003, we sold approximately 11.0 shares of
Modem Media for net proceeds of approximately $57.0, resulting
in a pre-tax gain of $30.3. Also in December 2003, we sold all
of the approximately 11.7 shares of TNS we had acquired
through the sale of NFO for approximately $42.0 of net proceeds.
A pre-tax gain of $13.3 was recorded.

Note 10:

Provision for Income Taxes

The components of income (loss) from continuing operations
before provision for (benefit of) income taxes, equity earnings,
and minority interest expense are as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,

Continuing Operations




(Restated)

(Restated)

Domestic

(72.4

)

(8.8

)

335.3

Foreign

(194.6

)

(364.0

)

(219.6

)

Total

$

(267.0

)

$

(372.8

)

$

115.7



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The provision for (benefit of) income taxes on continuing
operations consists of:

The components of deferred tax assets consist of the following
items:

The valuation allowance of $488.6 and $252.6 at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, applies to
certain deferred tax assets, including US tax credits,
capital loss carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards
in certain jurisdictions that, in our opinion, are more likely
than not, not to be utilized. The



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

change during 2004 in the deferred tax valuation allowance
primarily relates to uncertainties regarding the utilization of
capital loss and net operating loss carryforwards. At
December 31, 2004, there are $58.9 of tax credit
carryforwards with expiration periods beginning in 2009 and
ending in 2013. There are also $334.5 of loss carryforwards, of
which $103.7 are US capital and net operating loss carryforwards
that expire in the years 2006 through 2024. The remaining
$230.8 are non-US net operating loss carryforwards of
$219.7 with unlimited carryforward periods and $11.1 with
expiration periods from 2010 through 2020. We have concluded
that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset
balance will be realized.

Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation on Continuing Operations

A reconciliation of the effective income tax rate on continuing
operations before equity earnings and minority interest expense
as reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income to the US
Federal statutory income tax rate is as follows:

Our effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the
establishment of valuation allowances, as described below,
restructuring charges, and non-deductible long-lived asset
impairment charges. Our effective tax rate was also impacted by
pretax charges and related tax benefits resulting from the
Motorsports contract termination costs. The difference between
the effective tax rate and the statutory federal rate of 35% is
also due to state and local taxes and the effect of non-US
operations.

As required by SFAS No. 109, we are required to
evaluate on a quarterly basis the realizability of our deferred
tax assets. SFAS No. 109,

Accounting for Income
Tax,

requires a valuation allowance to be established when
it is more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax
assets will not be realized. In circumstances where there is
sufficient negative evidence, establishment of a valuation
allowance must be considered. We believe that cumulative losses
in the most recent three-year period represent sufficient
negative evidence under the provisions of
SFAS No. 109,

Accounting for Income Tax,

and,
as a result, we determined that certain of our deferred tax
assets required the establishment of a valuation allowance. The
deferred tax assets for which an allowance was established
relate primarily to foreign net operating and US capital loss
carryforwards. During 2004, a valuation allowance of $236.0 was
established in continuing operations on existing deferred tax
assets and current year losses with no tax benefits. The total
valuation allowance as of December 31, 2004 was $488.6.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The total amount of undistributed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries for income tax purposes was $672.3 and $697.9 at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. It is our
intention to reinvest undistributed earnings of our foreign
subsidiaries indefinitely. After the completion of our
evaluation, we have determined that we will not take advantage
of the provisions of the Jobs Act which grants a temporary
incentive to repatriate foreign earnings. However, we will
continue to monitor our circumstances and if there is a change
which makes the use of this provision advantageous, we will be
able to adopt it prior to December 31, 2005.

On April 21, 2003 the Internal Revenue Service
(“IRS”) proposed additions to our taxable income for
the taxable years 1994 through 1996 that would result in
additional income taxes, including conforming state and local
tax adjustments, of $41.5 (plus interest). We filed a Protest
with the IRS Appeals Office on July 21, 2003, contesting
the most significant adjustments proposed by the IRS and
claiming a refund in respect of certain business expenses for
which we had failed to claim deductions. We have settled one of
the protested issues in an amount that does not exceed
previously established reserves and therefore will not have a
material effect on our financial position and the results of
operations. Although the resolution of the remaining issues will
likely require us to pay additional taxes, we expect that any
such payments also will not have a material effect on our
financial position and the results of operations.

The IRS currently has our taxable years 1997-2002 under
examination. In addition, we have various tax years under
examination by tax authorities in various countries, such as the
United Kingdom, and states, such as New York, in which we have
significant business operations. It is not yet known whether
these examinations will in the aggregate result in us paying
additional taxes. We have established tax reserves that we
believe to be adequate in relation to the potential for
additional assessments in each of the jurisdictions in which it
is subject to taxation. We regularly assess the likelihood of
additional tax assessments in those jurisdictions and adjust our
reserves as additional information or events require.

Although the ultimate resolution of these remaining matters will
likely require us to pay additional taxes, we anticipate any
such payments will not have a material effect on our financial
position and results of operations.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Note 11:

Debt

Long-Term Debt

A summary of the carrying amounts and fair values of our
long-term debt is as follows:

Exposure to interest rate movements is reduced by interest rate
swap agreements. As a result of these agreements, the effective
interest rate for the 6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes differs
from its stated rate.

Annual repayments of long-term debt as of December 31, 2004
are scheduled as follows:


$

258.1


3.9


2.1


1.6


250.5

Thereafter

1,677.9

Total long-term debt

$

2,194.1

Redemption and Repurchase of Long-Term Debt

In January 2004, we redeemed the 1.80% Convertible
Subordinated Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $250.0
at maturity at an aggregate price of approximately $246.0, which
included the principal amount of the Notes plus original issue
discount and accrued interest to the redemption date. To redeem
these Convertible Subordinated Notes, we used approximately
$246.0 of the net proceeds from the 2003 Common and Mandatory
Convertible Preferred Stock offerings as discussed in
Note 12.

In November 2004, we tendered for $250.0 of the $500.0
outstanding face value 7.875% Senior Unsecured Notes at an
aggregate price of approximately $263.1, which included the
principal amount of



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

the Notes plus accrued interest to the tender date. A prepayment
premium of $9.8 was recorded on the early retirement of $250.0
of these Notes. In December 2004, we redeemed our outstanding
1.87% Convertible Subordinated Notes with an aggregate
principal amount of approximately $361.0 at maturity at an
aggregate price of approximately $346.8, which included the
principal amount of the Notes plus accrued interest to the
redemption date. To tender for the 7.875% Senior Unsecured
Notes and redeem the 1.87% Convertible Subordinated Notes,
we used approximately $250.0 and $350.0, respectively, of the
net proceeds from the sale and issuance in November 2004 of the
5.40% Senior Unsecured Notes due November 2009 and
6.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due November 2014.

In August 2005, we redeemed the remainder of the outstanding
7.875% Senior Unsecured Notes with an aggregate principal
amount of approximately $250.0 at maturity at an aggregate price
of approximately $258.6, which included the principal amount of
the Notes plus accrued interest to the redemption date. To
redeem these Notes we used the proceeds from the sale and
issuance in July 2005 of $250.0 Floating Rate Notes due in July
2008.

Consent Solicitation

In March 2005, we completed a consent solicitation to amend the
indentures governing five series of our outstanding public debt
to provide, among other things, that our failure to file with
the trustee our SEC reports, including our 2004 Annual Report on
Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports for the first and second
quarter of 2005 on Form 10-Q, would not constitute a
default under the indentures until September 30, 2005.

The indenture governing our 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes was
also amended to provide for: (1) an extension from
March 15, 2005 to September 15, 2009 of the date on or
after which we may redeem the 4.50% Notes and (2) an
additional “make-whole” adjustment to the conversion
rate in the event of a change of control meeting specified
conditions.

Convertible Senior Notes

The 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes
(“4.50% Notes”) are convertible to common stock
at a conversion price of $12.42 per share, subject to
adjustment in specified circumstances. They are convertible at
any time if the average price of our common stock for 20 trading
days immediately preceding the conversion date is greater than
or equal to a specified percentage, beginning at 120% in 2003
and declining 0.5% each year until it reaches 110% at maturity,
of the conversion price. They are also convertible, regardless
of the price of our common stock, if: (i) we call the
4.50% Notes for redemption; (ii) we make specified
distributions to shareholders; (iii) we become a party to a
consolidation, merger or binding share exchange pursuant to
which our common stock would be converted into cash or property
(other than securities) or (iv) the credit ratings assigned
to the 4.50% Notes by any two of Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings are
lower than Ba2, BB and BB, respectively, or the 4.50% Notes
are no longer rated by at least two of these ratings services.
Because of our current credit ratings, the 4.50% Notes are
currently convertible into approximately 64.4 shares of our
common stock.

We, at the investors’ option, may be required to redeem the
4.50% Notes for cash on March 15, 2008 and may also be
required to redeem the 4.50% Notes at the investors’
option on March 15, 2013 and March 15, 2018, for cash
or common stock or a combination of both, at our election.
Additionally, investors may require us to redeem the
4.50% Notes in the event of certain change of control
events that occur prior to March 15, 2008, for cash or
common stock or a combination of both, at our election. If at
any time on or after March 13, 2003 we pay cash dividends
on our common stock, we will pay contingent interest in an
amount equal to 100% of the per share cash dividend paid on the
common stock multiplied by the number of shares of common stock
issuable upon conversion of the 4.50% Notes. At our option,
we may redeem the 4.50% Notes on or after
September 15, 2009 for cash. The redemption price in each of



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

these instances is 100% of the principal amount of the notes
being redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. The
4.50% Notes also provide for an additional
“make-whole” adjustment to the conversion rate in the
event of a change of control meeting specified conditions.

See Note 17 for a discussion of fair market value of our
long-term debt.

Credit Arrangements

We have committed and uncommitted lines of credit with various
banks that permit borrowings at variable interest rates. At
December 31, 2004 and 2003, there were no borrowings under
our committed facilities, however, there were borrowings under
the uncommitted facilities made by several of our international
subsidiaries totaling $67.8 and $69.8, respectively. We have
guaranteed the repayment of some of these borrowings by our
subsidiaries. The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding
balances under the uncommitted short-term facilities at
December 31, 2004 and 2003 was approximately 5% in each
year. A summary of our credit facilities is as follows:

*

Amount available is reduced by $165.4 of letters of credit
    issued under the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility at
    December 31, 2004.

**

Amount available is reduced by $160.1 of letters of credit
    issued under the 364-Day Revolving Credit Facility at
    December 31, 2003.

Our primary bank credit agreements are two credit facilities, a
364-day revolving credit facility (“364-Day Revolving
Credit Facility”) and a three-year revolving credit
facility (“Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility” and,
together with the 364-Day Revolving Credit Facility, the
“Revolving Credit Facilities”). These facilities have
been modified three times through waivers and amendments
executed as of September 29, 2004, March 31, 2005 and
June 22, 2005, and the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility
was amended as of September 27, 2005. The amendment
executed on September 29, 2004 only modified the definition
of EBITDA. The March 31, June 22, and
September 27, 2005 waivers and amendments are discussed in
more detail below. We have been in compliance with all covenants
under our Revolving Credit Facilities, as amended or waived from
time to time.

Upon the expiration of our existing 364-Day Revolving Credit
Facility on May 10, 2004, we entered into a new 364-Day
Revolving Credit Facility with a syndicate of banks which
expired on May 9, 2005, and provided for borrowings of up
to $250.0. The May 9, 2005 expiration date was extended to
July 11, 2005 and then to September 30, 2005, as a
result of the March 31, 2005 and June 22, 2005 waivers
and amendments to the 364-Day Revolving Credit Facility,
respectively. We will allow the 364-Day Revolving Credit
Facility to lapse on September 30, 2005. On May 10,
2004, we replaced our five-year revolving credit facility with
the new Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility. The Three-Year
Revolving Credit



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Facility expires on May 9, 2007 and provides for borrowings
of up to $450.0, of which $200.0 is available for the issuance
of letters of credit. We reduced the aggregate commitment levels
by $175.0 in the Revolving Credit Facilities as compared to the
previous revolving credit facilities due to the availability of
other sources of liquidity and cash on hand.

Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facilities are unsecured.
Outstanding balances bear interest at variable rates based on
either LIBOR or a bank’s base rate, at our option. The
interest rates on LIBOR loans and base rate loans under the
Revolving Credit Facilities are affected by the facilities’
utilization levels and our credit ratings.

The terms of the Revolving Credit Facilities restrict our
ability to declare or pay dividends, repurchase shares of common
stock, make cash acquisitions or investments and make capital
expenditures, as well as the ability of our domestic
subsidiaries to incur additional unsecured debt in the ordinary
course of business in excess of $25.0. The original terms of the
Revolving Credit Facilities limit annual cash consideration paid
for acquisitions to $100.0 in the aggregate for any calendar
year, provided that amounts unused in any year may be rolled
over to the following years, but may not exceed $250.0 in any
calendar year. Annual common stock buybacks and dividend
payments on our capital stock are limited to $95.0 in the
aggregate for any calendar year, of which $45.0 may be used for
dividend payments on our convertible preferred stock and $50.0
may be used for dividend payments on our capital stock
(including common stock) and for common stock buybacks. Any
unused portion of the permitted amount of $50.0 may be rolled
over into successive years; provided that the payments in any
calendar year may not exceed $125.0 in the aggregate. Our
permitted level of annual capital expenditures is limited to
$225.0, provided that amounts unused in any year up to $50.0 may
be rolled over to the next year. These terms were subsequently
modified with three amendments made to the Revolving Credit
Facilities on March 31, June 22 and September 27, 2005.

The March 31, 2005 waiver and amendment to the Revolving
Credit Facilities, among other things, (i) required us to
maintain an ending balance of $225.0 of cash in domestic
accounts with our lenders for the seven days preceding a
borrowing, (ii) restricted cash consideration paid for
acquisitions to less than $5.0 for the period between
March 31, 2005 and July 11, 2005, and
(iii) restricted our ability to make certain restricted
payments such as dividends until July 11, 2005 to paying
dividends on our preferred stock and repurchasing capital stock
in connection with employees’ exercise of options.

The June 22, 2005 waiver and amendment to the Revolving
Credit Facilities, among other things, (i) required us to
maintain a daily ending balance of $225.0 of cash and securities
in domestic accounts with our lenders, (ii) restricted our
ability to make cash acquisitions in excess of $7.5 in the
aggregate until September 30, 2005, and
(iii) restricted our ability to make certain restricted
payments such as dividends until September 30, 2005 to
paying dividends on our preferred stock and repurchasing capital
stock in connection with employees’ exercise of options.

The terms of the September 27, 2005 amendment to the
Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility do not permit us:
(i) to make cash acquisitions in excess of $50.0 until
October 2006, or thereafter in excess of $50.0 until expiration
of the agreement in May 2007, subject to increases equal to the
net cash proceeds received during the applicable period from any
disposition of assets; (ii) to make capital expenditures in
excess of $210.0 annually; (iii) to repurchase or to
declare or pay dividends on our capital stock (except for any
convertible preferred stock, convertible trust preferred
instrument or similar security, which includes our outstanding
5.40% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred), except
that we may repurchase our capital stock in connection with the
exercise of options by our employees or with proceeds
contemporaneously received from an issue of new shares of our
capital stock; and (iv) to incur new debt at our
subsidiaries, other than unsecured debt incurred in the ordinary
course of business, which may not exceed $10.0 in the aggregate
with respect to our US subsidiaries.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The original terms of the Revolving Credit Facilities also
included certain financial covenants that set:

(i) debt to EBITDA ratio of not greater than 3.25 to 1;

(ii) minimum levels of EBITDA of not less than
    $750.0; and

(iii) interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.75 to 1
    for the period of four fiscal quarters then ended.

The March 31, 2005 amendment modified the financial
covenants to the Revolving Credit Facilities and set:

(i) debt to EBITDA ratio of not greater than 4.25 to 1;

(ii) minimum levels of EBITDA of not less than
    $550.0; and

(iii) interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 to 1 for
    the four fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2004.

The June 22, 2005 amendment modified the financial
covenants to the Revolving Credit Facilities and set:

(i) debt to EBITDA ratios as of the end of the fiscal
    quarter ended December 31, 2004, at a ratio of not greater
    than 4.25 to 1, as of the end of the fiscal quarter ended
    March 31, 2005, at a ratio of not greater than 4.8
    to 1, as of the end of the fiscal quarter ended
    June 30, 2005, at a ratio of not greater than 5.65
    to 1, and as of the end of each fiscal quarter thereafter,
    at a ratio of not greater than 3.25 to 1;

(ii) minimum levels of EBITDA for the period of four fiscal
    quarters ended December 31, 2004 of not less than $550.0,
    for the period of four fiscal quarters ended March 31,
    2005, of not less than $470.0, for the period of four fiscal
    quarters ended June 30, 2005, of not less than $400.0 and
    thereafter for each period of four fiscal quarters then ended of
    not less than $750.0; and

(iii) interest coverage ratios as of the end of the fiscal
    quarter ended December 31, 2004, at a ratio of not less
    than 3.0 to 1, as of the end of the fiscal quarter ended
    March 31, 2005, at a ratio of not less than 2.4 to 1,
    as of the end of the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2005, at
    a ratio of not less than 2.0 to 1 and as of the end of each
    fiscal quarter thereafter, at a ratio of not less than 3.75 to 1.

Our Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility was amended and
restated as of September 27, 2005. The effectiveness of the
amended Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility is subject to
certain conditions as described below. The September 27,
2005 amendment to the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility also
sets forth revised financial covenants. These require that, as
of the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005 and each
fiscal quarter thereafter, we maintain:

(i) an interest coverage ratio of not less than that set
    forth opposite the corresponding quarter in the table below:



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

(ii) a debt to EBITDA ratio of not greater than that set
    forth opposite the corresponding quarter in the table below:

(iii) minimum levels of EBITDA for the four fiscal quarters
    ended of not less than that set forth opposite the corresponding
    quarter in the table below:

The terms used in these ratios, including EBITDA, interest
coverage and debt, are subject to specific definitions set forth
in the agreement. Under the definition set forth in the amended
Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility, EBITDA is determined by
adding to net income or loss the following items: interest
expense, income tax expense, depreciation expense, amortization
expense, and certain specified cash payments and non-cash
charges subject to limitations on time and amount set forth in
the agreement. Based on our forcast, we expect to be in
compliance with all covenants under our Three-Year Revolving
Credit Facility, as amended and restated for the next twelve
months.

Before agreeing to the amendments, the lenders reviewed
preliminary drafts of the Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this Annual Report and in our quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q for the first two quarters of 2005. One condition
to effectiveness of the amendments is that we have not received,
on or before October 4, 2005, notice from the lenders that
have a majority in amount of the revolving credit commitments,
that the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report
and our quarterly reports, and the financial data contained in
the notes thereto, are not substantially similar to the
preliminary consolidated financial statements we provided to
them. If we receive such a notice, the amended agreement will
not become effective. In that event, we will continue to be
subject to the financial covenants that were previously
applicable under the Three-Year Revolving Credit Facility, as
amended in June 2005 with respect to periods through the second
quarter of 2005. We were in compliance with those covenants
through June 30, 2005, but there can be no assurance that
we will be in compliance when we report financial information
the third quarter of 2005.

Note 12:

Convertible Preferred Stock

On December 16, 2003, we sold 25.8 shares of common
stock and issued 7.5 shares of Preferred Stock. The total
net proceeds received from the concurrent offerings were
approximately $693.0. The Preferred Stock carries a dividend
yield of 5.375%. On the automatic conversion date in December,
2006,



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

each share of the Preferred Stock will convert, subject to
adjustment, to between 3.0358 and 3.7037 shares of common
stock, depending on the then-current market price of our common
stock, representing a conversion premium of approximately 22%
over the stock offering price of $13.50 per share. Under
certain circumstances, the Preferred Stock may be converted
prior to maturity at our option or at the option of the holders.
The common and preferred stock were issued under our existing
shelf registration statement.

We are required to pay annual dividends on each share of the
Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock in the
amount of $2.6875 in quarterly installments on March 15th,
June 15th, September 15th and December 15th.
Dividends are cumulative from the date of issuance and are
payable on each payment date to the extent that dividends are
not restricted under our credit facilities and assets are
legally available to pay dividends.

In addition to the stated annual dividend, if at any time on or
before December 2006, we pay a cash dividend on our common
stock, the holders of Preferred Stock participate in such
distributions via adjustments to the conversion ratio, thereby
increasing the number of common shares into which the Preferred
Stock will ultimately convert.

Note 13:

Incentive Plans

We issue stock and cash based incentive awards to our employees
under a plan established by the Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors and approved by our shareholders. Common
stock may be granted under the current plan, up to a maximum
4.5 shares for stock options and 14.0 shares for
awards other than stock options, however there are limits as to
the number of shares available for certain awards and to any one
participant. At December 31, 2004, there were
2.9 shares for stock options and 9.1 shares for awards
other than stock options that were available under the plan.
During the year ended December 31, 2004, the expiration of
unexercised options and forfeitures of shares for awards other
than stock options previously granted under old plans resulted
in an additional 2.8 shares available to be issued under
the new plan.

Stock Options

Stock options are granted at the fair market value of our common
stock on the date of grant and are generally exercisable between
two and five years after the date of grant and expire ten years
from the grant date.

Following is a summary of stock option transactions during the
three-year period ended December 31:




Weighted-

Weighted-

Weighted-

Average

Average

Average

Options

Exercise Price

Options

Exercise Price

Options

Exercise Price

Stock options, beginning of year

41.9

$

26.60

42.3

$

29.35

38.3

$

28.82

Options granted

2.2

$

14.14

6.4

$

10.60

7.8

$

26.43

Options exercised

(0.7

)

$

10.64

(0.1

)

$

10.49

(2.8

)

$

14.24

Options cancelled, forfeited and expired

(3.9

)

$

25.40

(6.7

)

$

29.23

(1.0

)

$

28.78

Stock options, end of year

39.5

$

26.36

41.9

$

26.60

42.3

$

29.35

Options exercisable at year-end

21.1

$

28.94

20.8

$

27.49

19.8

$

25.16



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The following table summarizes information about stock options
outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2004:

Restricted Stock

Restricted stock is granted to certain key employees and is
subject to certain restrictions and vesting requirements as
determined by the Compensation Committee. The vesting period is
generally two to five years. No monetary consideration is paid
by a recipient for a restricted stock award and the fair value
of the shares on the grant date is amortized over the vesting
period. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, there were 7.5 and
5.5 shares of restricted stock outstanding, respectively.
During 2004, 2003 and 2002, we awarded 4.1 shares,
0.5 shares and 1.5 shares of restricted stock with a
weighted-average grant date fair value of $13.72, $11.51 and
$29.11, respectively. The expense recorded for restricted stock
awards in 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $37.6, $38.8 and $50.0,
respectively.

Restricted Stock Units

Restricted stock units are granted to employees and generally
vest in three years. The grantee is entitled to receive a
payment in cash or in shares of common stock based on the fair
market value of the corresponding number of shares of common
stock upon completion of the vesting period. The holder of
restricted stock units has no ownership interest in the
underlying shares of common stock until the restricted stock
units vest and the shares of common stock are issued. During
2004, we awarded 1.0 shares of restricted stock units with
a weighted-average grant date fair value of $13.41. Restricted
stock units were first issued in 2004.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Performance Units

Before December 2003, performance units had been awarded to
certain key employees. The payout for these performance units
was contingent upon the annual growth in profits (as defined)
over the performance periods. The awards are generally paid in
cash. The projected value of these units is accrued and charged
to expense over the performance period. We expensed
approximately $12.1, $19.7 and $15.0 in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. In December 2003, the Compensation Committee
terminated the existing Performance Units Plan. Final payments
under this plan totaling approximately $29.4 are expected to be
made over 2005 and 2006.

Note 14:

Employee Benefits

Pension Plans

Through March 31, 1998, we had a defined benefit plan
(“Domestic Plan”) which covered substantially all
regular domestic employees. In 1992, the Domestic Plan was
amended to offer new plan participants a cash balance benefit as
opposed to a career pay benefit which was the previous plan
formula prior to the amendment. Under this arrangement,
participants were credited with an annual allocation of their
compensation, ranging from 1.5% to 5.0%, based on the
participant’s age and years of service. For pre-1992
participants, the benefit is the greater of the cash balance
account or the career pay formula benefit. Under the career pay
formula, annual accruals were earned based on 1.0% of
compensation up to $15,000 plus 1.3% of compensation above
$15,000. Participants are eligible to receive their benefit in
the form of a lump sum payment or as an annuity. Effective
April 1, 1998, plan participation and benefit accruals for
this Domestic Plan were frozen and participants with five or
less years of service became fully vested. As of
December 31, 2004, there were approximately
5,000 participants in the Domestic Plan.

Participants with five or more years of participation in the
Domestic Plan as of March 31, 1998 retained their vested
balances in the Domestic Plan and also became eligible for
payments under a new compensation arrangement (see the
Supplemental Compensation Plan described below).

One of our agencies has an additional domestic plan covering
approximately 200 employees. This plan is frozen to new
participants.

We also have numerous foreign pension plans in which benefits
are based primarily on years of service and employee
compensation. It is our policy to fund these plans in accordance
with local laws and income tax regulations.

The primary investment goal for our plan assets is to maximize
total asset returns while ensuring the plans’ assets are
available to fund the plans’ liabilities as they become
due. The plans’ assets in aggregate and at the individual
portfolio level are invested so that total portfolio risk
exposure and risk-adjusted returns best meet this objective.

For the Domestic Plan, we develop the long-term rate of return
assumptions which we use to model and determine overall asset
allocations. Our outside advisors make recommendations regarding
asset class allocations and assumptions, which are then subject
to review, modification and approval by the Treasurer and
Finance Committee. Expected return on plan assets is based on a
combination of historical returns, current market conditions and
capital market forecasts. Factors included in the analysis of
returns include historical trends of asset class index returns
over various market cycles and economic conditions.

Most of the foreign plan assets are part of the UK Pension Plan.
The UK Pension Plan’s statement of investment principles
specifies benchmark allocations by asset category for each
investment manager employed, with specified ranges around the
central benchmark allocation. The remainder of the foreign
assets is invested predominantly in equity securities based on
local managements’ assessment of market conditions. The
expected rate of return on foreign plan assets was determined,
based on actuarial advice,



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

by a process that takes the current long-term rates of return
available on government bonds and applies to these rates
suitable risk premiums that take account of available historical
market returns and current market expectations.

Postretirement Benefit Plans

Some of our subsidiaries provide postretirement health and life
insurance benefits to eligible employees who were hired as of a
certain date. For domestic employees to be eligible for
postretirement health benefits, an employee had to be hired
prior to January 1, 1988. To be eligible for life
insurance, an employee had to be hired prior to December 1,
1961. Additionally, certain domestic employees of the former
True North Communications companies acquired in June 2001 are
eligible for postretirement health and life insurance benefits.

In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement
and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “Act”) was enacted.
The Act established a prescription drug benefit under Medicare,
known as “Medicare Part D,” and a federal subsidy
to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a
benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare
Part D. We believe that benefits provided to certain
participants will be at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare
Part D, and, accordingly, we will be entitled to a subsidy.
As described in Note 1, we adopted FSP 106-2 prospectively
from July 1, 2004. The expected subsidy reduced the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (“APBO”)
by $5.0, and the net periodic cost by $0.3, as compared with the
amount calculated without considering the effects of the subsidy.

Pension and Postretirement Net Periodic Cost

We use a measurement date of December 31 for all material
plans. The following table identifies the components of net
periodic cost for the Domestic Plan, for the principal foreign
pension plans, and for the post retirement plans.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the net
periodic cost are as follows:

Domestic Pension Plans

Foreign Pension Plans

Postretirement Benefits

For the Years Ended December 31,










Discount rate

6.15%

6.60%

7.10%

5.20%

5.40%

5.70%

6.25%

6.75%

7.25%

Rate of compensation increase

N/A

N/A

N/A

3.50%

3.10%

3.20%

N/A

N/A

N/A

Expected return on plan assets

8.65%

8.65%

8.90%

6.35%

6.50%

6.90%

N/A

N/A

N/A

Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligation

We use a measurement date of December 31 for all material
plans. The change in the benefit obligation, the change in plan
assets, the funded status and amounts recognized for the
Domestic Plan, principal foreign pension plans, and
postretirement plans are as follows:



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Differences between the aggregate balance sheet amounts listed
above and the totals reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheet
and our Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity and
Comprehensive Income relate to the non-material foreign plans.

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation
and fair value of plan assets for domestic pension plans with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were
$167.6, $163.1 and 119.2, respectively, at December 31,
2004 and $154.8, $151.3 and $93.6, respectively, at
December 31, 2003.

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation
and fair value of plan assets for foreign pension plans with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were
$445.3, $409.0 and $211.3, respectively, at December 31,
2004 and $354.8, $318.1 and $177.2, respectively, at
December 31, 2003. The countries where such plans reside in
include the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan.

The weighted-average assumptions used in determining the
actuarial present value of our benefit obligations are as
follows:



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Asset Allocation

As of December 31, 2004, our domestic and foreign
(primarily the UK) pension plan target asset allocations for
2005, as well as the actual asset allocations at
December 31, 2004 and 2003, are as follows:

The aggregate amount of our own stock shares held as investment
for our pension funds would be considered negligible relative to
the total fund assets.

Healthcare Cost Trend

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on
the amounts reported for the postretirement health and life
insurance plans. A one percentage point change in assumed
healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:

1% Increase

1% Decrease

Effect of a one percentage point change in assumed healthcare
    cost trend

-on total service and interest cost components

$

0.2

$

(0.2

)

-on postretirement benefit obligation

$

3.3

$

(3.2

)

Cash Flows

Contributions

For 2005, we do not expect to make any contributions to fund our
postretirement benefits plan or our Domestic Pension Plans, but
do expect to contribute $24.3 to our foreign plans. We made
contributions of $30.0 to fund our principal domestic retirement
plan in 2004.

Estimated Future Payments

The following estimated future payments, which reflect future
service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid in the years
indicated:

Domestic

Foreign

Postretirement

Years

Pension Plans

Pension Plans

Benefits


$

15.3

$

14.2

$

6.2


$

11.1

$

14.2

$

6.2


$

10.9

$

16.4

$

6.3


$

10.8

$

14.9

$

6.3


$

10.5

$

22.5

$

6.4

2010-2014

$

53.3

$

92.5

$

31.1



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The expected benefit payments for our postretirement benefit
plans are before any estimated federal subsidies expected to be
received under the Act. Federal subsidies are estimated to range
from $0 in 2005, to $0.7 in 2009 and are estimated to be $3.2
for the period 2010-2014. For the Domestic Pension Plans, the
cash outflow for 2005 assumes that all previously terminated
vested employees eligible for a payment elect the lump sum
payment option.

Supplemental Compensation Plan

As discussed above, participants with five or more years of
participation in the Domestic Plan as of March 31, 1998
became eligible for payments under the Supplemental Compensation
Plan. Under the Supplemental Compensation Plan, each participant
is eligible for an annual allocation, which approximates the
projected discontinued pension benefit accrual (formerly made
under the cash balance formula in the Domestic Plan) plus
interest, while they continue to work for us. Participants in
active service are eligible to receive up to ten years of
allocations coinciding with the number of years of plan
participation in the Domestic Plans as of March 31, 1998.
After five years of plan participation, a participant starts to
receive an annual cash payment equal to 50% of the accumulated
plan balance. Participants must be employed with us as of the
scheduled payment date to receive a payment. However, a
participant is entitled to 100% of the accumulated plan balance
at termination of employment if certain age and service
requirements are met. Payments began in 2003 and are scheduled
to end in 2008. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the
Supplemental Compensation Plan liability recorded on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet was approximately $9.7 and $8.8,
respectively. Amounts expensed for the Supplemental Compensation
Plan in 2004, 2003, and 2002 were $5.4, $3.4 and $3.4,
respectively.

Savings Plan

We sponsor a defined contribution plan (“Savings
Plan”) that covers substantially all domestic employees.
The Savings Plan permits participants to make contributions on a
pre-tax and/or after-tax basis. The Savings Plan allows
participants to choose among various investment alternatives. We
match a portion of participant contributions based upon their
years of service. We contributed $28.0, $26.9 and $27.1 to the
Savings Plan in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Deferred Compensation and Benefit Arrangements

We have deferred compensation arrangements which (i) permit
certain of our key officers and employees to defer a portion of
their salary or incentive compensation, or (ii) result in
us contributing an amount to the participant’s account. The
arrangements typically provide that the participant will receive
the amounts deferred plus interest upon attaining certain
conditions, such as completing a certain number of years of
service or upon retirement or termination. As of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, the deferred compensation
liability balance recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet was
approximately $159.8 and $152.3, respectively. Amounts expensed
for deferred compensation arrangements in 2004, 2003, and 2002
were $6.3, $5.0 and $7.5, respectively.

Additionally, we have deferred benefit arrangements with certain
key officers and employees which provide participants with an
annual payment, payable when the participant attains a certain
age and after the participant’s employment has terminated.
The deferred benefit arrangement liability recorded on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2004 and 2003
was approximately $128.3 and $116.6, respectively. Amounts
expensed for deferred benefit arrangements in 2004, 2003, and
2002 were $17.1, $12.7 and $23.0, respectively.

We have purchased life insurance policies on participants’
lives to assist in the funding of the related deferred benefit
liability. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the cash
surrender value of these policies was approximately $141.4 and
$137.0, respectively. In addition to the life insurance
policies, certain



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

investments are held for the purpose of paying the deferred
compensation liability. These investments, along with the life
insurance policies, are held in a separate trust and are
restricted for the purpose of paying the deferred compensation
liability. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the value of
such restricted assets was approximately $80.4 and $87.9,
respectively. The cash surrender value of the policies and the
investments in the trust are included in Other Assets on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under the ESPP, employees may purchase our common stock through
payroll deductions not exceeding 10% of their compensation. The
price an employee pays for a share of stock under the ESPP is
85% of the average market price on the last business day of each
month. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, we issued 0.7 shares,
0.9 shares and 0.9 shares, respectively, purchased by
employees under the ESPP. An additional 11.7 shares were
reserved for issuance under the ESPP at December 31, 2004.
Shares issued to employees under the ESPP have no impact on the
Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 1 for
further discussion of SFAS No. 123R.

Note 15:

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss

Comprehensive income (loss) is included on the Consolidated
Statement of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income
(loss). Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, is
reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:

December 31,




(Restated)

(Restated)

Foreign currency translation adjustment

$

(145.8

)

$

(197.3

)

$

(319.3

)

Adjustment for minimum pension liability

(112.8

)

(65.2

)

(69.2

)

Unrealized holding gain (loss) on securities

10.0

3.4

(6.7

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax

$

(248.6

)

$

(259.1

)

$

(395.2

)

Note 16:

Derivative and Hedging Instruments

We periodically enter into interest rate swap agreements and
forward contracts to manage exposure to interest rate
fluctuations and to mitigate foreign exchange volatility.

Interest Rate Swaps

During the fourth quarter of 2004, we executed three interest
rate swaps which synthetically converted $350.0 of fixed rate
debt to floating rates, to hedge a portion of our floating rate
exposure on our cash investments. The interest rate swaps
effectively converted the $350.0, 6.25% Senior Unsecured
Notes due November 2014 to floating rate debt and mature on the
same day the debt is due. As of December 31, 2004, the
floating rate was approximately 4.2%. Under the terms of the
interest rate swap agreement we pay a floating interest rate,
based on one-month LIBOR plus an average spread of
176.6 basis points, and receive the fixed interest rate of
the underlying bond being hedged. Fair value adjustments
decreased the carrying amount of our debt outstanding at
December 31, 2004 by approximately $1.7.

In January 2005, we executed an interest rate swap which
synthetically converted an additional $150.0 of fixed rate debt
to floating rates. The interest rate swap effectively converted
$150.0 of the $500.0, 7.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due
August 2011 to floating rate debt and matures on the same day
the debt is due. Under the terms of the interest rate swap
agreement we pay a floating interest rate, based on



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

one-month LIBOR plus a spread of 297.0 basis points, and
receive the fixed interest rate of the underlying bond being
hedged.

We account for interest rate swaps related to our existing
long-term debt as fair value hedges. As a result, the
incremental interest payments or receipts from the swaps will be
recorded as adjustments to interest expense in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations. The interest rate swaps settle on the
underlying bond interest payment dates until maturity. There is
no assumed hedge ineffectiveness as the interest rate swap terms
match the terms of the hedged bond.

On May 25, 2005, we terminated all of our long-term
interest rate swap agreements covering the $350.0,
6.25% Notes due November 2014 and $150.0 of the $500.0,
7.25% Notes due August 2011. In connection with the
interest rate swap termination, our net cash receipts were
approximately $1.1, which will be recorded as an offset to
interest expense over the remaining life of the related debt.

As of December 31, 2003, we had no outstanding interest
rate swap agreements.

Forward Contracts

We have entered into foreign currency transactions in which
various foreign currencies are bought or sold forward. These
contracts were entered into to meet currency requirements
arising from specific transactions. The changes in value of
these forward contracts were reflected in our Consolidated
Statement of Operations. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
we had contracts covering approximately $1.8 and $2.4,
respectively, of notional amount of currency and the fair value
of the forward contracts was negligible.

Other

The terms of the 4.50% Convertible Senior Notes include two
embedded derivative instruments. The fair value of the two
derivatives on December 31, 2004 was negligible.

As discussed in Note 4, we have entered into various put
and call options related to acquisitions. The exercise price of
such options is generally based upon the achievement of
projected operating performance targets and approximates fair
value.

Note 17:

Financial Instruments

The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair
values of our financial instruments at December 31, 2004
and 2003. The carrying amounts reflected in our Consolidated
Balance Sheet for cash and cash equivalents, accounts
receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses and short-term
borrowings approximated their respective fair values at
December 31, 2004 and 2003.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Investment Securities

Marketable securities consisted primarily of available-for-sale
equity securities that are publicly traded and have been
reported at fair value with net unrealized gains and losses
reported as a component of other comprehensive income. Cost
investments consisted primarily of non-public available-for-sale
equity securities accounted for under the cost method. Other
investments consisted primarily of investments in unconsolidated
affiliated companies accounted for under the equity method and
have been carried at cost, which approximates fair value. The
estimated fair values of financial assets have been determined
using available market information and appropriate valuation
methodologies. Judgment is required in interpreting market
information to develop the estimated fair value amounts, and
accordingly, changes in assumptions and valuation methodologies
may affect these amounts. Net unrealized holding gains (losses)
of our investments were $10.0, $3.4 and $(6.7) at
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt included variable and fixed rate debt as
discussed in Note 11. The fair value of our long-term debt
instruments was based on market prices for debt instruments with
similar terms and maturities. During 2004, we executed three
interest rate swaps to hedge a portion of our floating rate debt
exposure. The fair value of the interest rate swap agreements
was estimated based on quotes from the financial institutions of
these instruments and represents the estimated amounts that we
would expect to receive or pay to terminate the agreements at
the reporting date. Fair value adjustments decreased the
carrying value of our debt outstanding at December 31, 2004
by approximately $1.7 as discussed in Note 16.

Financial Commitments

Financial commitments included other forward contracts and put
option obligations. Other forward contracts related primarily to
an obligation to repurchase 49% of the minority-owned
equity shares of a consolidated subsidiary, valued pursuant to
SFAS No. 150,

Accounting for Certain Financial
Instruments with Characteristic of Both Liabilities and
Equity.

Fair value measurement of the obligation was based
upon the amount payable as if the forward contract was settled
at December 31, 2004 and 2003. Changes in the fair value of
the obligation have been recorded as interest expense or income
in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Put option
obligations consisted of a written put option representing an
obligation to repurchase 40% of the minority-owned equity
shares of a consolidated subsidiary, valued pursuant to
SFAS No. 150. The put option obligation has been
marked-to-market by assessing the fair value of the 40% interest
as compared to the amount payable if the put option was
exercised at December 31, 2004 and 2003. Changes in the
fair value of the put option obligation have been recorded as
long-lived asset impairment and other charges in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations.

Note 18:

Segment Information

As of December 31, 2004, we are organized into five global
operating divisions and a group of leading stand-alone agencies.
In accordance with SFAS No. 131,

Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information

, our
operating divisions are grouped into three reportable segments.
The IAN reportable segment is comprised of McCann, FCB, Lowe,
Draft and our stand-alone agencies. CMG comprises our second
reportable segment. Our third reportable segment is comprised of
our Motorsports operations, which was sold during 2004.

Prior to the fourth quarter of 2004, Lowe and Draft were
included in a single global operating division called The
Partnership. During the fourth quarter of 2004, The Partnership
was dissolved; Lowe and Draft became separate global operating
divisions and the remaining agencies previously included in the
Partnership became stand-alone agencies.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

As of December 31, 2003, we had an additional global
operating division, The Sports & Entertainment Group
(“SEG”). SEG included Octagon, Jack Morton and certain
other businesses. During the second quarter of 2004, SEG was
disbanded and its component parts were either reallocated to one
of the then four global operating divisions or became a
stand-alone agency. During the fourth quarter of 2004, we
re-organized our CMG segment to include Octagon and Jack Morton.
Prior year information has been restated to reflect the current
year segment structure. Future changes to our organizational
structure may result in changes to the reportable segment
disclosure.

Within the IAN segment, McCann, FCB, Lowe, Draft and our
stand-alone agencies provide a comprehensive array of global
communications and marketing services, each offering a
distinctive range of solutions for our clients. Our leading
stand-alone agencies, including Deutsch, Campbell-Ewald, Hill
Holliday, and The Martin Agency, provide a full range of
advertising, marketing communications services and/or marketing
services and partner with our global operating divisions as
needed. Each of IAN’s operating divisions share economic
characteristics, specifically related to the nature of their
respective services, the manner in which the services are
provided and the similarity of their respective customers. The
annual margins of each of the operating divisions may vary due
to global economic conditions, client spending and specific
circumstances such as our restructuring activities. However,
based on the respective future prospects of the operating
divisions, we believe that the long-term average gross margin of
each of these divisions will converge over time and, given the
similarity of their operations, they have been aggregated into a
single reportable segment. IAN also includes our media agencies,
Initiative Media and MAGNA Global which are part of our leading
stand-alone agencies, and Universal McCann which is part of
McCann. Our media offering creates integrated communications
solutions, with services that cover the full spectrum of
communication needs, including channel strategy, planning and
buying, consulting, production, and post-campaign analysis.

CMG, which includes Weber Shandwick, FutureBrand, DeVries, Golin
Harris, Jack Morton, and Octagon Worldwide
(“Octagon”), provides clients with diversified
services, including public relations, meeting and event
production, sports and entertainment marketing, corporate and
brand identity and strategic marketing consulting. CMG shares
some similarities to other service lines offered by IAN,
however, on a stand-alone basis, its economic characteristics
and expected margin performance are sufficiently different to
support CMG as a separate reportable segment. Specifically,
CMG’s businesses, on an aggregate basis, have a higher
proportion of arrangements for which it acts as principal, have
a greater proportion of non-global clients and have slightly
lower margins.

During 2004, we exited our Motorsports business, which owned and
operated venue-based motorsports businesses. Motorsports had its
own management structure and reported to senior management on
the basis of this structure. Motorsports derived revenue from
ticket sales and rentals of its various owned and leased tracks.
Generally the cost structure of Motorsports was based on direct
operating costs, as opposed to pass through costs that
characterize the rest of the businesses. Accordingly,
Motorsports had different economic characteristics and was
reflected as its own reportable segment. Other than the
recording of long-lived asset impairment and contract
termination costs, the operating results of Motorsports during
2004 were not material, and therefore not discussed in detail.

The profitability measure employed by our chief operating
decision makers for allocating resources to operating divisions
and assessing operating division performance is operating
profit. For this purpose, amounts reported as segment operating
profit exclude the impact of restructuring and impairment
charges, as we do not consider these charges when assessing
operating division performance or when allocating resources. The
impact of restructuring and impairment charges to each reporting
segment are reported separately in Notes 5 and 8,
respectively. Segment profit excludes interest income and
expense, debt repayment penalties, investment impairments,
litigation charges and other non-operating income. With the



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

exception of excluding certain amounts for reportable segment
operating profit, all segments follow the same accounting
policies as those described in Note 1.

Certain corporate and other charges are reported as a separate
line within total segment operating income and include corporate
office expenses and shared service center expenses, as well as
certain other centrally managed expenses which are not allocated
to operating divisions, as shown in the table below. Salaries
and related expenses include salaries, pension, bonus and
insurance expenses, including medical and dental, for corporate
office employees. Professional fees include costs related to
preparation for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, cost of
restatement efforts financial statement audits, legal,
information technology and other consulting fees, which are
engaged and managed through the corporate office. Rent and
depreciation includes rental expense and depreciation of
leasehold improvements for properties occupied by corporate
office employees. Bank fees relates to debt and credit
facilities managed by the corporate office. The amounts
allocated to operating divisions are calculated monthly based on
a formula that uses the weighted average net revenues of the
operating unit. The majority of the Corporate cost including
most of the costs associated to internal control remediation and
compliance are not allocated back to operating segments. The
following expenses are included in Corporate and Other:



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Summarized financial information concerning our reportable
segments is shown in the following table:

(1)

Amounts disclosed as revenue from unaffiliated customers include
    immaterial amounts of intersegment revenues.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Long-lived assets and revenue are presented below by major
geographic area:

Revenue is attributed to geographic areas based on where the
services are performed. Property and equipment is allocated
based upon physical location. Intangible assets, other assets
and investments are allocated based on the location of the
related operation.

Our largest client contributed approximately 7% in 2004, 8%
in 2003 and 8% in 2002 to revenue. Our second largest client
contributed approximately 3% in 2004, 3% in 2003 and 3% in
2002 to revenue. The IAN segment reported the majority of the
revenue for both clients in all periods.

Note 19:

Commitments and Contingencies

Restatement Related Matters

As a result of the restatement review (discussed more fully in
Note 2, the Company has recorded additional liabilities
with regard to Vendor Discounts or Credits, Internal
Investigations and International Compensation Agreements which
amount to $242.3, $114.8 (including $37.5 of additional vendor
discounts or credits) and $40.3, respectively, as of
December 31, 2004. The Company believes that these amounts
represent our best estimates of our ultimate liabilities in each
of these cases based on facts and documents reviewed and are
sufficient to cover any obligations that we may have to our
clients, vendors, and various governmental organizations in the
jurisdictions involved. The Company estimates it will pay
approximately $250.0 related to these liabilities over the next
24 months.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Leases

We lease certain facilities and equipment. Where leases contain
escalation clauses or concessions, such as rent holidays and
landlord/tenant incentives or allowances, the impact of such
adjustments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the
minimum lease period. Certain leases provide for renewal options
and require the payment of real estate taxes or other occupancy
costs, which are also subject to escalation clauses. Rent
expense was as follows:

For the Years Ended December 31,




(Restated)

(Restated)

Gross rent expense

$

433.0

$

440.2

$

432.0

Third-party sublease rental income

(24.6

)

(31.6

)

(24.7

)

Net rent expense

$

408.4

$

408.6

$

407.3

Future minimum lease commitments for office premises and
equipment under non-cancelable leases, along with minimum
sublease rental income to be received under non-cancelable
subleases, are as follows:

Sublease

Gross Rent

Rental

Net Rent

Period

Expense

Income

Expense


$

319.1

$

(49.2

)

$

269.9


289.1

(45.6

)

243.5


252.7

(39.8

)

212.9


220.1

(33.6

)

186.5


185.9

(30.4

)

155.5

2010 and thereafter

924.1

(95.7

)

828.4

Total

$

2,191.0

$

(294.3

)

$

1,896.7

Contingent Acquisition Obligations

We have structured certain acquisitions with additional
contingent purchase price obligations in order to reduce the
potential risk associated with negative future performance of
the acquired entity. In addition, we have entered into
agreements that may require us to purchase additional equity
interests in certain consolidated and unconsolidated
subsidiaries. The amounts relating to these transactions are
based on estimates of the future financial performance of the
acquired entity, the timing of the exercise of these rights,
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors. In
accordance with GAAP, we have not recorded a liability for these
items on the balance sheet since the definitive amounts payable
are not determinable or distributable. When the contingent
acquisition obligations have been met and consideration is
distributable, we will record the fair value of this
consideration as an additional cost of the acquired entity. The
following table details the estimated liability and the
estimated amount that would be paid under such options, in the
event of exercise at the earliest exercise date. All payments
are contingent upon achieving projected operating performance
targets and satisfying other conditions specified in the related
agreements and are subject to revisions as the earn-out periods
progress.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The following contingent acquisition obligations are net of
compensation expense, except as noted below, as defined by the
terms and conditions of the respective acquisition agreements
and employment terms of the former owners of the acquired
businesses. This future expense will not be allocated to the
assets and liabilities acquired. As of December 31, 2004,
our estimated contingent acquisition obligations are as follows:

In accounting for acquisitions, we recognize deferred payments
and purchases of additional interests after the effective date
of purchase that are contingent upon the future employment of
owners as compensation expense in our Consolidated Statement of
Operations. As of December 31, 2004, our estimated
contingent acquisition payments with associated compensation
expense impacts are as follows:

Compensation Expense-Related Payments

Cash

$

34.1

$

4.9

$

2.1

$

1.4

$

—

$

1.3

$

43.8

Stock

$

1.8

$

0.2

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

2.0

Subtotal

$

35.9

$

5.1

$

2.1

$

1.4

$

—

$

1.3

$

45.8

Total Payments

$

137.0

$

24.0

$

17.6

$

9.6

$

9.5

$

15.1

$

212.8

*

We have entered into certain acquisitions that contain both put
    and call options with similar terms and conditions. In such
    instances, we have included the related estimated contingent
    acquisition obligations with Put Options.

The 2005 obligations relate primarily to acquisitions that were
completed prior to December 31, 2001.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Legal Matters

Federal Securities
Class Actions

During the fourth quarter of 2004, the settlement of thirteen
class actions under the federal securities laws became final.
The class actions were filed against the Company and certain of
our present and former directors and officers on behalf of a
purported class of purchasers of our stock shortly after our
August 13, 2002 announcement regarding the restatement of
our previously reported earnings for the periods January 1,
1997 through March 31, 2002. These actions, which were all
filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York, were consolidated by the court and
lead counsel was appointed for all plaintiffs on
November 15, 2002. On December 2, 2003, we reached an
agreement in principle to settle the consolidated class action
shareholder suits in federal district court in New York. Under
the terms of the settlement, we agreed to pay $115.0, comprised
of $20.0 in cash and $95.0 in shares of our common stock at a
value of $14.50 per share. On November 4, 2004, the
court entered an order granting final approval of the
settlement. The term of appeal for the settlement expired on
December 6, 2004. During the fourth quarter of 2004, the
$20.0 cash portion of the settlement was paid into escrow and
0.8 of the settlement shares were issued to the plaintiffs’
counsel as payment of their fee.

In 2003, we recorded litigation charges of $115.0 related to the
settlement of the shareholder suits discussed above. During the
fourth quarter of 2004, the settlement was approved and the
litigation charges were reduced by $20.0 due to insurance
proceeds received as reimbursement for the cash component of the
settlement from our Directors and Officers insurance policies
(which a receivable has not previously been accounted for) and
by $12.5 relating to a decrease in the share price between the
tentative settlement date and the final settlement date as the
share settlement amount was fixed.

Derivative Actions

In the fourth quarter of 2004, the settlement of a shareholder
derivative suit became final. The suit was filed in New York
Supreme Court, New York County, by a single shareholder acting
on behalf of Interpublic against the Board of Directors and
against our auditors. This suit alleged a breach of fiduciary
duties to our shareholders. On November 26, 2002, another
shareholder derivative suit, alleging the same breaches of
fiduciary duties, was filed in New York Supreme Court, New York
County. On January 26, 2004, we reached an agreement in
principle to settle these derivative actions, agreeing to
institute certain corporate governance procedures prescribed by
the court. On June 11, 2004, the court entered an order
granting preliminary approval to the proposed settlement. These
governance procedures have been adopted as part of our Corporate
Governance Guidelines (which can be found on our website). The
court held a final approval and fairness hearing on
October 22, 2004, and on November 4, 2004, the court
entered an order granting final approval of the settlement.

SEC Investigation

In January 2003, the SEC issued a formal order of investigation
related to our restatements of earnings for periods dating back
to 1997. On April 20, 2005, we received a subpoena from the
SEC under authority of the order of investigation requiring
production of additional documents relating to the potential
restatement we announced in March 2005. The SEC is investigating
the restatement detailed in Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. We are cooperating fully with the
investigation.

Other Legal Matters

We are involved in other legal and administrative proceedings of
various types. While any litigation contains an element of
uncertainty, we have no reason to believe that the outcome of
such proceedings or claims will have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Note 20:

Results by Quarter (Unaudited)

The first set of tables below presents unaudited quarterly
financial information for 2004 and 2003. The amounts presented
have been restated from those previously reported on
Form 10-Q for the applicable periods and in our 2003 annual
report on Form 10-K. The second set of tables below sets
forth, for each of the quarters and for each of the interim
balance sheet dates presented, the amounts of the restatement
adjustments and a reconciliation from previously reported
amounts to restated amounts.

The restatement adjustments are attributable to the same matters
that are discussed in depth in Note 2, Restatement of
Previously Issued Financial Statements, and we refer you to that
discussion. The third set of tables below summarizes, for each
of the quarters and for each of the interim balance sheet dates
presented, the impact of each category of adjustment on
previously reported revenue; net income (loss) from continuing
operations and earnings per share; and assets, liabilities and
stockholders’ equity.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Results by Quarter

(Unaudited)

*

Does not add due to rounding.

**

Due to the existence of income from continuing operations, basic
    and diluted EPS have been calculated using the two-class method
    pursuant to EITF Issue 03-6 for the quarter ended
    December 31, 2004. This resulted in a decrease of $22.6 and
    $12.2 in net income (numerator) for the basic and diluted EPS
    calculations, respectively, for the quarter ended
    December 31, 2004.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

RESTATED BALANCE SHEET BY QUARTER

(Unaudited)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

RESTATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS BY QUARTER

(Unaudited)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The following tables set forth, for each of the quarters and for
each of the interim balance sheet dates presented, the amounts
of the restatement adjustments and a reconciliation from
previously reported amounts to restated amounts.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

*

Does not add due to rounding.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

*

Does not add due to rounding.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

*

Does not add due to rounding.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

Goodwill Impairments

During the third quarter of 2004, prior to the restatement, we
recorded goodwill impairment charges of approximately $310.0 at
The Partnership reporting unit, which is comprised of, Lowe
Worldwide, Draft Worldwide, Mullen, Dailey & Associates
and Berenter Greenhouse Webst and $132.0 at our CMG reporting
unit, which is comprised of Weber Shandwick, Golin Harris,
DeVries Public Relations, Octagon Worldwide FutureBrand. We have
historically performed our annual impairment test of goodwill as
of September 30 each year. We also perform an impairment
test of goodwill when certain trigger events occur, such as the
loss of major clients or other significant changes in the
business environment. Impairment tests are performed in
accordance with SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets

, which requires a two-step process. Step 1
requires a determination to be made of the fair value of each of
our reporting units. We utilize an independent third party
valuation firm to assist us in developing this fair value
estimate. The fair value is then compared to the book value of
the reporting unit and if the book value is greater than the
fair value, Step 2 is required to be performed.

Step 2 requires a comparison of the implied fair value of
goodwill with the reporting unit’s book value. An
impairment loss is measured by the excess of the book value of
goodwill over its implied fair value. The implied fair value of
goodwill is determined in the same manner that goodwill is
measured in a business combination under SFAS No. 141,

Business Combinations

. We allocate the fair value of a
reporting unit to its assets and liabilities, including any
unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had
been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of
the reporting unit was the price paid to acquire the reporting
unit. In our industry the most typical unrecognized intangible
assets are trade names and customer relationships.

During our Step 2 analysis we omitted the deferred tax
liabilities arising from the book and tax basis differences of
the unrecognized intangibles established for trade names and
customer relationships as part of the fair value estimate in
determining the implied fair value of goodwill. EITF 02-13,

Deferred Income Tax Considerations in Applying the Goodwill
Impairment Test in FASB Statement No. 142

, notes that
an entity should use the income tax basis of a reporting
unit’s assets and liabilities implicit in the tax structure
assumed in its determination of fair value of the reporting unit
in Step 1. According to this standard, an entity should use
its existing income tax basis if the assumed structure used to
estimate the fair value of the reporting unit was a nontaxable
transaction, and it should use new income tax basis if the
assumed structure was a taxable transaction. Based on our
analysis we determined that a non-taxable transaction had the
highest economic value to us.

In computing the implied fair value of goodwill we did not
establish a deferred tax liability for the basis difference of
the unrecognized intangible assets associated with the trade
names and customer relationships valued within the reporting
unit. In the restatement, we re-performed the Step 2
analysis at both The Partnership and CMG reporting units taking
into account goodwill adjustments at The Partnership and CMG of
approximately $17.8 and $6.9, respectively, as a result of
restatement issues with accounting for acquisitions. The
resulting implied fair value of goodwill reduced the impairment
charge by approximately $103.6 and $41.6 at The Partnership and
CMG, respectively from what had previously been recorded in the
interim unaudited consolidated financial statements as of
September 30, 2004. We have recorded adjustments as part of
the restatement to reduce our impairment charge recorded during
the third quarter of 2004 at the same time increasing our
goodwill balances at The Partnership and CMG reporting units.

We are implementing a policy that will detail the process of how
we perform impairment testing at our reporting units. As part of
the testing we will document the tax structure assumed in the
transaction. The determination of whether a reporting unit could
be sold in a non-taxable transaction versus a taxable
transaction depends on the relevant facts and circumstances and
will be evaluated on an individual basis. In making this
determination we will consider whether the assumption is
consistent with those that



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

marketplace participants would incorporate into their estimates
of fair value, the feasibility of the assumed structure and
whether the assumed structure results in the highest economic
value for the reporting unit. Accounting for all future
Step 2 analyses will be reviewed and evaluated with the
appropriate management oversight prior to the analysis being
finalized and will include members of our Controllers and Tax
groups to prevent this type of inappropriate accounting in
future periods.

The Partnership was subsequently disbanded in the fourth quarter
of 2004 and the remaining goodwill was allocated based on the
relative fair value of the agencies at the time of disbandment.
Based on the correction of the goodwill impairment charge in
accordance with EITF No. 02-13, we considered the
possibility of impairment at Lowe and Draft, the two largest
agencies previously within The Partnership. However, at this
point we have determined that there is no discernible trigger
event for an additional impairment. We will continue to monitor
the results and, should operating performance worsen,
particularly at Lowe we may conclude that a trigger event has
occurred and impairment may then be required.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)

The following tables summarize, for each of the quarters and for
each of the interim balance sheet dates presented, the impact of
each category of adjustment on previously reported revenue; net
income (loss) from continuing operations and earnings per share;
and assets, liabilities and retained earnings.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Data)



SCHEDULE II — 1 of 2

THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND ITS
SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Three Years Ended December 31, 2004



SCHEDULE II — 2 of 2

THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND ITS
SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Three Years Ended December 31, 2004

Column A

Column B

Column C

Column D

Column E

Column F

Additions

Balance at

Charged to

Charged

Balance

Beginning

Costs &

to Other

at End

Description

of Period

Expenses

Accounts

Deductions

of Period

(Amounts in millions)

Valuation Allowance — deducted from Deferred Income
    Taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet:


$

252.6

$

236.0

$

—

$

—

$

488.6

2003 (Restated)

$

123.9

$

111.4

$

17.3

(1)

$

—

$

252.6

2002 (Restated)

$

96.4

$

27.5

$

—

$

—

$

123.9

(1)

Included in discontinued operations related to NFO.



Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Management’s Assessment on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm located in Item 8 are incorporated by
reference herein.

Disclosure controls and procedures

We have carried out an evaluation under the supervision of, and
with the participation of, our management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures as of December 31, 2004. Our
evaluation has disclosed numerous material weaknesses in our
internal control over financial reporting as noted in
Management’s Assessment on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting located in Item 8. Material weaknesses in
internal controls may also constitute deficiencies in our
disclosure controls. Based on an evaluation of these material
weaknesses, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures are not effective. However, based on significant work
performed to date, management believes that there are no
material inaccuracies or omissions of material fact in this 2004
annual report. Management, to the best of its knowledge,
believes that the financial statements contained in the 2004
annual report are fairly presented in all material respects.

There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any
system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the
possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding
of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective
disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable
assurance of achieving their control objectives.

Changes in internal control over financial reporting

We have assessed our internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2004 and reported on our assessment in
Item 8 of this report. In connection with that assessment,
we have begun to implement a plan to extensively change our
internal controls, as described in Management’s Assessment
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting located in
Item 8.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of
    Interpublic

Below follows the information disclosed in accordance with
Item 401 of Regulation S-K of the SEC as required by
Item 10 of Form 10-K with respect to our directors and
executive officers as of August 31, 2005.

Directors of Interpublic

The following information with respect to the principal
occupation or employment, recent employment history, age and
directorships in other companies is as of August 31, 2005,
and has been furnished or confirmed to us by the respective
directors. The information provided also identifies the
committees of the Board of Directors on which each director
serves. Our directors will hold office until our next Annual
Meeting of Stockholders and until their successors are elected
and qualify or until their earlier death, resignation or removal.

DAVID A. BELL

became Co-Chairman of Interpublic,
effective January 19, 2005. Prior to that time,
Mr. Bell served as our President and Chief Executive
Officer, effective July 13, 2004. Mr. Bell was
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of
Interpublic from February 2003 through July 2004. Prior to that
time, he was our Vice Chairman from June 2001 to February 2003.
Mr. Bell also served as one of our directors between June
2001 and February 2002. Mr. Bell served as Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of True North Communications, Inc.
(“True North”) from April 1999 through June 2001.
Mr. Bell has been a member of the Board of Directors since
February 2003. He is a director of Primedia Inc. and Warnaco
Inc. Age 62.

Chairman of the Executive Committee.

FRANK J. BORELLI

has been a Senior Adviser to MMC
Capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan
Companies, Inc. (“Marsh & McLennan”) since
his retirement on January 2, 2001. Prior to that time he
was Senior Vice President of Marsh & McLennan from
January through December 2000 and was Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer from 1984 through 1999. He is a director
of Express Scripts, Inc. and was a director of Marsh &
McLennan until September 30, 2000. Mr. Borelli is past
Chairman and director of the Financial Executives International
and is also a member of the Board of Trustees of the National
Multiple Sclerosis Society, a Trustee of St. Thomas Aquinas
College and Chairman of the Nyack Hospital. Mr. Borelli has
been a member of the Board of Directors since 1995. Age 68.

Presiding Director. Member of the Executive
    Committee.

REGINALD K. BRACK

is the Former Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of Time, Inc. From September 1994 to June
1997, Mr. Brack was Chairman of Time, Inc. and was its
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer from December
1986 until August 1994. Mr. Brack is also a director of
Quebecor World, Inc. Mr. Brack has been a member of the
Board of Directors since 1996. Age 66.

Chairman of the Compensation Committee. Member of the
    Audit, Executive and Corporate Governance Committees.

JILL M. CONSIDINE

has been Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation
since 1999. The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation
is a holding company that is the parent of various securities
clearing corporations and The Depository Trust Company, which is
a large securities depository limited purpose trust company and
clearing corporation. She was President of the New York Clearing
House Association from 1993 to 1998. Ms. Considine served
as Managing Director, Chief Administrative Officer and a member
of the Board of Directors of American Express Bank, Ltd. from
1991 to 1993. She is a trustee of Atlantic Mutual Insurance
Companies. She also is a



director of Ambac Financial Group, Inc. Ms. Considine has
been a member of the Board of Directors since February 1997.
Age 60.

Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee. Member of
    the Audit and Finance Committees.

JOHN J. DOONER, JR.

became Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Interpublic’s McCann-Erickson WorldGroup,
effective February 27, 2003. Prior to that time,
Mr. Dooner served as Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer of Interpublic from December 2000 to
February 2003. Mr. Dooner was President and Chief Operating
Officer of Interpublic from April 1, 2000 through
December 14, 2000. Mr. Dooner was Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of McCann-Erickson WorldGroup from 1995
through March 2000 and previously was Chief Executive Officer of
McCann-Erickson Advertising Worldwide from 1994 to 1995. From
1992 to 1994, Mr. Dooner was President of McCann-Erickson
Advertising Worldwide. He served as President of McCann-Erickson
North America from 1988 to 1992. Mr. Dooner has been a
member of the Board of Directors since 1995. Age 57.

Member of the Finance Committee.

RICHARD A. GOLDSTEIN

became Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. in
June 2000. He served as Business Group President of Unilever
North American Foods from 1996 to June 2000 and as President and
Chief Executive Officer of Unilever United States, Inc. from
1989 to June 2000. Prior to that time, Mr. Goldstein served
as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Unilever Canada
Limited from 1984 to 1989. He also is a director of Fiduciary
Trust Company International and Continuum Health Partners.
Mr. Goldstein has been a member of the Board of Directors
since 2001. Age 63.

Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committees. Member of
    the Corporate Governance Committee.

H. JOHN GREENIAUS

has been President of G-Force, Inc.
since 1998. He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Nabisco, Inc. from 1993 through 1997. Mr. Greeniaus has
been a member of the Board of Directors since December 2001. He
is a director of Primedia Inc. Age 60.

Member of the Audit, Compensation and Finance
    Committees.

MICHAEL I. ROTH

became our Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer, effective January 19, 2005. Prior
to that time Mr. Roth served as our Chairman of the Board
from July 13, 2004 to January 2005. Mr. Roth served as
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The MONY Group Inc. from
February 1994 to June 2004. Mr. Roth has been a member of
the Board of Directors since February 2002. He is also a
director of Pitney Bowes Inc. and Gaylord Entertainment Company.
Age 59.

J. PHILLIP SAMPER

has been Founding Partner of Gabriel
Venture Partners L.L.C. since December 1998 and was Chief
Executive Officer and President of Avistar Systems Corp. from
1997 to October 1998. Prior to that time, Mr. Samper was
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Quadlux, Inc.
from 1996 to 1997. He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of Cray Research, Inc. during 1995 and was President of Sun
Microsystems Computer Corporation from 1994 to 1995.
Mr. Samper was Vice Chairman and Executive Officer of the
Eastman Kodak Company from 1986 to 1989 and a member of the
Board of Directors from 1983 to 1989. He was President and Chief
Executive Officer of Kinder-Care Learning Centers from 1990 to
1991. Mr. Samper has been a member of the Board of
Directors since 1990. Age 70.

Member of the Audit, Compensation and Corporate Governance
    Committees.

DAVID M. THOMAS

has been the Executive Chairman of IMS
Health Inc. (“IMS”) since January 2005. From November
2000 until January 2005, Mr. Thomas served as Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of IMS. Prior to joining IMS,
Mr. Thomas was Senior Vice President and Group Executive of
IBM from January 1998 to July 2000. Mr. Thomas is a
director of Fortune Brands Inc. Mr. Thomas has been a
member of the Board of Directors since October 2004. Age 55.



Member of the Audit and Corporate Governance
    Committees.

Executive Officers of Interpublic

(1)

Also a Director

On January 19, 2005, we announced that Michael Roth has
succeeded David Bell as President and Chief Executive Officer.
Mr. Roth had been Executive Chairman at Interpublic since
July 2004. We also announced that Mr. Bell would serve as
Co-Chairman and that Mr. Bell would retain his seat on our
Board of Directors.

There is no family relationship among any of the executive
officers.

For the employment histories for the past five years of
Messrs. Roth and Bell, see Item 10. Directors and
Executive Officers of Interpublic — Directors of
Interpublic in this Annual Report.

Mr. Camera was hired in May 1993. He was elected Vice
President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary in
June 1994, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in
December 1995, and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary in February 2000.

Mr. Conte was hired in March 2000 as Senior Vice President,
Taxes and General Tax Counsel. Prior to joining us,
Mr. Conte served as Vice President, Senior Tax Counsel for
Revlon Consumer Products Corporation from September 1987 to
February 2000.

Mr. Cyprus was hired in May 2004 as Senior Vice President,
Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining us,
Mr. Cyprus served as Vice President and Controller of
AT&T from January 1999 to May 2004.

Mr. Dowling was hired in January 2000 as Vice President and
General Auditor. He was elected Senior Vice President, Financial
Administration of Interpublic in February 2001, and Senior Vice
President, Chief Risk Officer in November 2002. Prior to joining
us, Mr. Dowling served as Vice President and General
Auditor for Avon Products, Inc. from April 1992 to December 1999.

Mr. Gatfield was hired in April 2004 as Executive Vice
President, Global Operations and Innovation. Prior to joining
us, he served as Chief Operating Officer from 2001 to 2004 and
as Regional Managing Director for the Asia Pacific region from
1997 to 2000 for Leo Burnett Worldwide.



Mr. Krakowsky was hired in January 2002 as Senior Vice
President, Director of Corporate Communications. Prior to
joining us, he served as Senior Vice President, Communications
Director for Young & Rubicam from August 1996 to
December 2000. During 2001, Mr. Krakowsky was complying
with the terms of a non-competition agreement entered into with
Young & Rubicam.

Mr. Mergenthaler was hired in August 2005 as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining us, he
served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Office
for Columbia House Company from July 2002 to July 2005.
Mr. Mergenthaler served as Senior Vice President and Deputy
Chief Financial Officers for Vivendi Universal from December
2001 to March 2002. Prior to that time Mr. Mergenthaler was
an executive at Seagram Company Ltd. from November 1996 to
December 2001.

Mr. Sompolski was hired in July 2004 as Executive Vice
President, Chief Human Resources Officer. Prior to joining us,
he served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources and
Administration for Altria Group from November 1996 to January
2003.

The table below provides membership information for our audit
committee:

The Board of Directors has determined that each member of the
Audit Committee (i) qualifies as an “audit committee
financial expert” within the meaning of applicable SEC
rules and (ii) is independent under the independence
standards set forth in Interpublic’s Corporate Governance
Guidelines, and under the applicable rules of the SEC and the
NYSE listing standards. The Audit Committee held seven meetings
in 2004.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance

Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
Exchange Act) requires our directors and executive officers, and
persons who beneficially own more than 10 percent of a
registered class of our equity securities, to file with the SEC
and the NYSE initial reports of beneficial ownership and reports
of changes in beneficial ownership of our equity securities.

To our knowledge, based upon the reports filed or written
statements that no such reports were required to be filed during
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, none of our
directors or executive officers failed to file on a timely basis
reports required by Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.

Code of Conduct

We have adopted a code of ethics, known as the Code of Conduct,
which applies to all of our employees and employees of our
affiliates. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that
members of the Board of Directors and officers (which includes
our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller
and other persons performing similar functions) must comply with
the Code of Conduct. In addition, the Corporate Governance
Guidelines state that the Board will not waive any provision of
the Code of Conduct for any Director or executive officer. The
Code of Conduct, including future amendments, is available free
of charge on our website at

http://www.interpublic.com

or
by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 1114
Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036, Attention: Secretary.



NYSE Certification

In 2004, our CEO provided the Annual CEO Certification to the
NYSE, as required under Section 303A.12(a) of the New York
Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.

Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors

Compensation Governance

As the Compensation Committee, we are responsible for approving
compensation awarded to senior corporate and operating
executives, including the named executive officers, and
authorizing all awards under Interpublic’s 2004 Performance
Incentive Plan. We operate under a written charter adopted by
the Board of Directors and available on Interpublic’s web
site, and include three non-employee directors in accordance
with the Committee’s Charter. Each Committee member
qualifies as an independent director as defined by the New York
Stock Exchange listing standards, a “non-employee
director” under Rule 16b-3 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and an “outside director” under
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.

As a Committee, we approve policies under which compensation is
paid or awarded to Interpublic’s executives, and
individually review the performance and compensation levels of,
and all compensation actions pertaining to, Interpublic’s
senior executive group, including the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer. Annually, we evaluate and revise, as
necessary, Interpublic’s compensation philosophy and
approaches, including the fixed and variable elements of total
compensation, and the design of incentive compensation programs.

During 2004, we engaged Hewitt Associates to provide independent
counsel to the Committee and Board on executive compensation and
talent management matters, both generally and specific to our
industry. Hewitt Associates’ selection was the result of a
review of proposals from three highly-regarded firms, and
represented a change from prior consulting relationships. We
will assess this relationship annually.

Working with the Committee and management, Hewitt Associates has
provided valuable input to the Committee in the form of latest
trends and policies noted in other world-class compensation
committees and has provided independent perspectives on a wide
variety of talent-related topics. Early in 2005, we completed a
self-assessment of the Committee’s capabilities and
performance and we intend to repeat this process annually.

Policy on Deductibility of Compensation

Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code limits to
$1 million the tax deduction for compensation paid to the
executive officers listed in Item 11 “Executive
Compensation-Compensation of Executive Officers-Summary
Compensation Table” of this annual report (the “named
executive officers”). Compensation in excess of
$1 million is deductible only if requirements are met that
qualify the compensation as performance-based. Our policy is to
comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) except where
we determine that compliance is not in the best interests of
Interpublic and its shareowners. Interpublic’s stock option
grants currently meet the performance-based requirements under
Section 162(m). Interpublic’s 2004 restricted stock
grants do not meet the performance-based requirements under
Section 162(m).

The February 2005 grant of performance-based restricted shares,
discussed below, to Mr. Roth exceeded the individual award
limit under the 2004 Performance Incentive Plan, resulting in a
portion of this award being non-tax deductible under 162(m). The
Committee nevertheless concluded that this award was appropriate
in light of Mr. Roth’s promotion, the degree of
stretch inherent in the related performance objectives, and its
preference for using performance-based restricted shares rather
than time-vested restricted stock.



Compensation Philosophy

Interpublic’s executive compensation programs have been
designed to attract, retain and motivate the executive resources
necessary to Interpublic’s long-term success and the
creation of shareholder value. In evaluating and administering
Interpublic’s executive compensation program, we are guided
by three key principles:

•

Alignment with shareholders:

Compensation should align
    the interests of executives and shareholders through the use of
    equity-based compensation and performance-based awards.

•

Performance-based:

Compensation should emphasize
    pay-for-performance by placing a significant portion of total
    compensation “at risk,” the payout of which is tied to
    the financial performance of Interpublic and the achievement of
    other critical objectives.

•

Market-based:

Total compensation levels should be
    competitive with those at other advertising and marketing
    service companies, and within other relevant executive labor
    markets as appropriate.

We find it is more appropriate to compare our compensation
programs to those of competitors for talent, rather than limit
our focus to the companies that make up the Peer Group used in
the Stock Performance Graph set forth in Item 11
“Executive Compensation-Five Year Performance
Comparison” of this annual report. Important to this
consideration is the limited amount of competitive pay data
available for Interpublic’s direct competitors and the fact
that, for some positions, Interpublic competes for executive
talent within a broader labor market.

Interpublic’s overall compensation program comprises three
principal elements: base salary, annual incentives, and
long-term incentives that include stock options and restricted
stock awards. An overview of each of the major compensation
program elements follows.

Base Salary

Each year, we determine the base salaries for the Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer, senior executive officers reporting to
the Chief Executive Officer, and selected other senior executive
positions. We consider several quantitative and qualitative
factors when determining base salaries, including the
executive’s individual performance, level of
responsibility, tenure, prior experience, and a comparison to
base salaries paid for comparable positions within Interpublic
and multiple compensation survey groups comprising
comparably-sized advertising, marketing, and general service
industry companies with similar client focus and talent
strategies. For many of the senior executives, salary is fixed
by contract, which Interpublic has the ability to increase, but
not decrease.

For 2004, base salaries for Named Executive Officers were not
increased.

Annual Incentives

Annual incentive awards to senior executives are made under the
shareholder-approved 2004 Performance Incentive Plan (the
“2004 PIP”). For purposes of bonus awards, the
executive officers of Interpublic participate in the Interpublic
corporate bonus pool, unless they are affiliated with one of
Interpublic’s operating units, in which case they
participate in that operating subsidiary’s bonus pool. The
2004 PIP limits the bonus amount that may be earned by any one
individual to $5 million. For named executive officers,
awards are earned under Committee-approved formulas that meet
the requirements for tax deductibility under Section 162(m)
of the Internal Revenue Code, and we retain the right to
exercise negative discretion and reduce the bonus amount based
on our further assessment of performance for the previous
calendar year.

The size of 2004 bonus pool for corporate and the operating
units reflected each unit’s specific operating results and
progress toward improving future operating performance.



Long-Term Incentives

Long-term incentive awards are made under the 2004 PIP. In 2004,
we approved grants of stock options and/or restricted stock to
officers and key employees of Interpublic and its subsidiaries.
Such awards are designed to focus the recipients on the
long-term performance of Interpublic and align their interests
with our shareholders.

Beginning in 2004, Interpublic has significantly shifted the
long-term incentive mix away from stock options toward
restricted stock and also dramatically reduced the number of
stock option recipients. This shift was in response to labor
market trends, changes in stock option accounting requirements
that take affect in 2005, and our assessment of the
appropriateness and effectiveness of the respective types of
award for different employee groups. We intend to introduce
performance-based stock awards for senior executives in 2005.

Stock options, when granted are on such terms as are approved by
our Committee, provided that the term of the option may not
exceed ten years and the exercise price may not be less than the
fair market price of the Common Stock on the date of grant. The
majority of stock options granted in 2004, and all stock options
granted to executive officers in 2004, vest in increments of
one-third on the second, third and fourth anniversaries of the
date of grant. Grants to the named executive officers are shown
in Item 11. Executive Compensation-Compensation of
Executive Officers-Stock Option Grants in 2004.

The sale or transfer of shares granted as restricted stock are
typically restricted for a period of three years from date of
grant and are generally forfeited if the executive should leave
the employment of Interpublic before the restrictions expire,
unless we as a Committee determines otherwise.

In determining grants of stock options and restricted stock, we
consider each executive’s current total compensation,
recent performance, expected future contributions and impact on
shareholder value, equity grant history, and potential retention
risk; competitive need to provide equity-based compensation to a
given position; and Interpublic’s financial performance. We
also review outside survey data that describe the equity grant
practices within Interpublic’s relevant labor markets.

Other Programs

Interpublic also provides its officers and key managers with
life and medical insurance, retirement savings and compensation
deferral programs, perquisites, and other benefits that are
competitive with market practices (described in greater detail
in Item 11. “Executive Compensation” of this
annual report). As part of our review of senior executive
compensation, we assess the appropriateness of these plans and
the level of participation annually.

CEO and Chairman Compensation and Evaluation

For 2004, we elected not to adjust Mr. Bell’s salary
and it remained at $1,000,000 for the year. After considering
Interpublic’s 2004 financial performance, including
reviewing performance relative to Earnings per Share (EPS) and
revenue objectives, we decided not to grant Mr. Bell an
annual incentive award for 2004.

In May 2004, we awarded Mr. Bell 124,466 shares of
restricted stock, which vest in full three years after the grant
date. In addition, the Committee awarded Mr. Bell 248,933
stock options with an exercise price of $14.06, based on the
average of the high and low market prices of Interpublic Common
Stock on the May 18, 2004 grant date. These stock options
become exercisable in increments of one-third on the second,
third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant.

As a result of these compensation actions, we believe
Mr. Bell’s total compensation was appropriate to his
role and performance relative to external market practices and
the compensation levels for similar positions at other
like-sized advertising, marketing and service companies. We also
believe these actions ensured that his total compensation would
have the appropriate level of performance sensitivity.



Michael I. Roth was named Chairman of Interpublic on
July 13, 2004. After considering data and counsel from
Hewitt Associates related to appropriate pay levels and form to
non-CEO Chairmen in other publicly-held companies, and
Mr. Roth’s compensation relative to
Mr. Bell’s as CEO, we approved an employment agreement
with Mr. Roth that set his base salary at $950,000,
provided him with a $100,000 annual contribution to a Capital
Accumulation Account, granted him 161,974 stock options with an
exercise price equal to the then current fair market price for
Interpublic stock and vesting in equal parts on the second,
third and fourth anniversaries of their grant, and granted
80,987 shares of restricted stock that vest on the third
anniversary of their grant. In addition, after considering
Interpublic’s 2004 financial performance, including
reviewing performance relative to Earnings per Share (EPS) and
revenue objectives, we decided not to grant Mr. Roth an
annual incentive award for 2004.

On January 19, 2005, Mr. Roth was promoted to Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of Interpublic. In conjunction with
this promotion, we, with the support of all non-employee
directors of Interpublic, approved several amendments to his
employment agreement. These pay-related actions were based on an
assessment of competitive data for CEOs of comparable companies,
advice from Hewitt Associates, and consideration of
Interpublic’s ongoing priorities and desired results and
consisted of the following:

The Board of Directors of Interpublic retains discretion to make
adjustments to the performance goals in the event of
extraordinary corporate events, such as acquisitions or
divestitures.

If Mr. Roth’s employment terminates for any reason
prior to the vesting of the Restricted Shares, the unvested
Restricted Shares will be forfeited. A pro rata portion of any
unvested portion of the Restricted



Shares will vest in the event of a “change of control”
of Interpublic, as such term is defined in Mr. Roth’s
executive severance agreement described in greater detail in
Item 10. “Directors and Executive Officers of
Interpublic-Employment Agreements Termination of Employment and
Change-In-Control Arrangements-Executive Severance
Agreements” of this annual report. The pro-rata portion
will be determined based on a fraction the numerator of which
will equal the number of months elapsed since the grant date
plus 12 and the denominator equal to 60.

Executive Compensation for 2005

For 2005, we expanded on the three key principles articulated
early in this report. These expanded principles provide
direction related to Interpublic’s general people-related
practices, compensation approaches for the executive and broad
employee populations, and talent management, including, but not
limited to, succession planning, employee and leadership
development.

Following our original three and this expanded set of
principles, we have redesigned Interpublic’s senior
executive annual incentive program to increase its link to
performance against Interpublic and its units’ key
financial and strategic objectives by providing individual
incentive payouts directly tied to the achievement of
pre-established performance goals set at the beginning of the
plan year and approved by the Committee. Specifically, annual
incentive awards for senior executives will be based on the
achievement of pre-defined operating income, operating margin,
and other measurable individual performance goals. We believe
these goals serve to focus executives on the factors that are
critical to the future success and financial health of
Interpublic.

In addition, 2005 long-term incentive awards will be delivered
in the form of stock options, restricted stock and/or
performance-based stock, the grant of which is contingent on
Interpublic or unit’s attainment of pre-established
multi-year performance goals. Generally, stock options will vest
in increments of one-third on the second, third and fourth
anniversaries of the date of grant. Restricted stock grants vest
fully on the third anniversary of the date of grant and
performance-based stock grants will be tied to the attainment of
three-year operating margin and revenue growth goals of the unit
and may vary from 0% to 200% of target award levels based on
performance.

We approved the revised long-term incentive design to reinforce
the achievement of critical performance priorities of
Interpublic, improve the performance-orientation of executive
total compensation, better align management and shareholder
interests, and facilitate executive stock ownership. Stock
option grants and performance-based restricted stock grants made
in 2005 and beyond are intended to comply with
Section 162(m) consistent with the Committee’s policy
stated above.

Conclusion

Attracting, motivating and retaining talented employees and
managers is central to our mission of increasing long-term
shareholder value. Aligning our executives’ interests to
our shareholders, making certain that compensation is linked to
performance, and ensuring that executive compensation is
competitive within the source markets for Interpublic’s
talent are our objectives and the cornerstones of our
methodology. We believe that Interpublic’s 2004 executive
compensation program met these objectives.

Respectfully submitted,

Reginald K. Brack, Chair

H. John Geeniaus

J. Phillip Samper



Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation

None of the Committee members were officers or employees of
Interpublic or any of our subsidiaries or had any relationship
requiring disclosure by us under Item 404 of the SEC’s
Regulation S-K during or prior to 2004.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Compensation of Executive Officers

The following table sets forth information concerning the
compensation paid by us and our subsidiaries to
(i) Mr. Bell, who served as the Chief Executive
Officer during 2004, (ii) each of our four most highly
compensated executive officers, other than our CEO (based on
aggregate salary and bonus in 2004), who were serving as
executive officers on December 31, 2004 and
(iii) Michael I. Roth, who became Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer, effective January 19, 2005 (the
“named executive officers”). In each instance, the
compensation shown is for services rendered in all capacities
for the three-year period ended on December 31, 2004. As
used in this Annual Report, our executive officers include any
director who served as the chief executive officer of
McCann-Erickson WorldGroup, a significant operating unit.



SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

(1)

On January 19, 2005, Michael Roth succeeded David Bell as
    Chief Executive Officer.

(2)

The salaries of executive officers continuing to serve in the
    same position are generally reviewed every two years.

(3)

Does not include annual salary in the amount of $150,000 that
    Mr. Bell has elected to forgo in 2004 in consideration for
    the receipt of a Special Deferred Benefit Agreement which is
    more fully described in Item 11. “Executive
    Compensation — Special Deferred Benefit
    Agreements” of this Annual Report.

Does not include annual salary in the amount of $100,000 that
    Mr. Coughlin has elected to forgo in 2004 in consideration
    for the receipt of a Special Deferred Benefit Agreement which is
    more fully described in Item 11. “Executive
    Compensation — Special Deferred Benefit
    Agreements” of this Annual Report.

Does not include annual salary in the amount of $112,500 that
    Mr. Bell has elected to forgo in 2003 in consideration for
    the receipt of a Special Deferred Benefit Agreement which is
    more fully described in Item 11. Executive
    Compensation — Special Deferred Benefit Agreements of
    this Annual Report.



Does not include annual salary in the amount of $54,167 that
    Mr. Coughlin has elected to forgo in 2003 in consideration
    for receipt of a Special Deferred Benefit Agreement which is
    more fully described in Item 11. Executive
    Compensation — Special Deferred Benefit Agreements of
    this Annual Report.

(4)

The bonus shown for Mr. Cyprus in 2004 includes a cash
    sign-on bonus of $1,830,000 that we paid to him shortly after he
    was hired. Fifty percent of the bonus shown for Mr. Dooner
    was paid in April 2005 and the balance will be paid when the
    2004 year-end financial statements for McCann-Erickson
    WorldGroup have been reported in final form and assessed. The
    bonus shown for Mr. Gatfield in 2004 includes a cash
    sign-on bonus of $750,000 that we paid to him shortly after he
    was hired. The bonus shown for Mr. Bell in 2003 includes a
    cash sign-on bonus of $100,000 that was paid to him shortly
    after he assumed the position of Chairman, CEO and President.
    The bonus in 2003 for Mr. Coughlin includes a sign-on bonus
    consisting of unrestricted shares of Interpublic Common Stock
    with a fair market value of $400,000 on June 16, 2003, his
    date of hire.

(5)

In accordance with SEC rules, information is shown in this
    column only if as to any named executive officer the aggregate
    value of perquisites and other personal benefits received during
    the year exceeds the lesser of (i) $50,000 and
    (ii) 10% of the named executive officer’s total salary
    and bonus for that year. SEC rules further require that if the
    value of perquisites and other personal benefits are required to
    be reported for any year, the type and amount of any perquisite
    or other personal benefit that exceeds 25% of total perquisites
    and other personal benefits must be described.

Other Annual Compensation for 2004 includes $31,278 in premiums
    for medical/dental coverage paid on behalf of Mr. Bell;
    $31,278 in premiums for medical/dental coverage paid on behalf
    of Mr. Dooner; and $25,000 in club dues and $22,156 in
    premiums for medical/dental coverage paid on behalf of
    Mr. Gatfield.

Other Annual Compensation for 2003 includes $28,755 in premiums
    for medical/dental coverage and $26,885 in respect of club dues
    paid on behalf of Mr. Bell (including a one-time club
    initiation fee); and $28,755 in premiums for medical/dental
    coverage and $19,108 in club dues paid on behalf of
    Mr. Dooner.

Other Annual Compensation for 2002 includes $28,272 in premiums
    for medical/dental coverage and $22,887 of club dues paid on
    behalf of Mr. Dooner.

(6)

The aggregate number and value of shares of restricted stock
    held by the named executive officers at December 31, 2004
    (based on the closing price of the Common Stock on
    December 31, 2004) are as follows:
    Mr. Bell — 209,466 shares ($2,806,844);
    Mr. Roth — 87,187 shares ($1,168,305);
    Mr. Coughlin — 53,342 shares ($714,783);
    Mr. Cyprus — 87,351 ($1,170,503);
    Mr. Dooner — 476,671 shares ($6,387,391);
    Mr. Gatfield — 20,000 ($268,000). Mr. Bell
    and Mr. Dooner have announced publicly that they will not
    sell any of their shares of restricted stock when the transfer
    restrictions are released until the shares of our Common Stock
    reach a price of $20.00 per share.

(7)

During 2003, Mr. Bell voluntarily agreed to the
    cancellation of 131,100 of the 256,100 shares of our Common
    Stock underlying stock options that he received in 2001. He
    relinquished these option



awards with the express intent of permitting the underlying
    shares to be issued to our other employees under the 2002
    Performance Incentive Plan.

During 2003, Mr. Dooner voluntarily cancelled option awards
    with respect to 248,000 shares and 252,000 shares of
    Common Stock that were granted to him on March 24, 2000 and
    December 15, 2000, respectively. These awards are not
    required to be reported in this annual report but were reported
    in previous years. Mr. Dooner relinquished these grants
    with the express intent of permitting the underlying shares to
    be issued to employees of one of our subsidiaries under the 2002
    Performance Incentive Plan.

In addition to Messrs. Dooner and Bell, several executives
    of our subsidiaries also voluntarily cancelled options with the
    express intent of permitting the underlying shares to be issued
    to our other employees under the 2002 Performance Incentive
    Plan. Options to purchase a total of 1,350,348 shares were
    cancelled (including those awards described above for
    Messrs. Bell and Dooner).

(8)

Payouts under the Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan
    (“LTPIP”) prior to 2002 were made at the end of
    four-year performance periods. In 2002, the original 1999-2002
    performance period was shortened to three years in order to
    institute a new performance plan. Payouts received in 2002 were
    calculated based on the value of the 1999-2001 performance
    period at the end of 2001 after giving effect to our
    restructuring costs taken in 2001.

(9)

All Other Compensation for 2004 consisted of: (i) the
    following amounts paid to the named executive officers: matching
    contributions under the Interpublic Savings Plan —
    Mr. Bell — $9,225; Mr. Coughlin —
    $6,150; Mr. Cyprus — $2,750; and
    Mr. Dooner — $9,225; (ii) premiums paid on
    group life insurance — Mr. Bell —
    $5,465; Mr. Roth — $129;
    Mr. Coughlin — $529; Mr. Cyprus —
    $276; Mr. Dooner — $1,032; and
    Mr. Gatfield — $255; (iii) supplemental
    compensation plan payout — Mr. Dooner —
    $17,763; (iv) annual contributions paid under the
    Interpublic Capital Accumulation Plan —
    Mr. Roth — $100,000; and
    Mr. Cyprus — $80,000 and (v) premiums paid
    by Interpublic on a life insurance policy for
    Mr. Dooner — $50,000.

Stock Option Grants In 2004

The following table provides information on grants of stock
options in 2004 to the named executive officers and the
estimated grant date present value of the options.

Individual Grants

Number of Securities

% of Total Options

Grant Date

Underlying Options

Granted to Employees

Exercise Price

Expiration

Present Value

Name

Granted(1)

in Fiscal Year

($/Sh)

Date

($)(8)

David A. Bell

248,933

(2)

11.31

%

$

14.06

05/18/14

$

1,720,127

Michael I. Roth

161,974

(3)

7.36

%

$

12.96

07/16/14

$

1,015,577

Christopher J. Coughlin

106,685

(4)

4.85

%

$

14.06

05/18/14

$

737,193

Nicholas Cyprus

118,797

(5)

5.40

%

$

14.31

05/24/14

$

835,143

John J. Dooner, Jr.

53,342

(6)

2.42

%

$

14.06

05/18/14

$

368,593

Stephen J. Gatfield

30,000

(7)

1.36

%

$

15.87

04/15/14

$

230,100

(1)

All options have a ten-year term and have an exercise price
    equal to 100% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on
    the date of grant.

(2)

Mr. Bell was granted a stock option award covering
    248,933 shares of Common Stock on May 18, 2004. The
    option becomes exercisable as to (i) 82,147 shares of
    Common Stock on May 18, 2006, (ii) 82,147 shares
    of Common Stock on May 18, 2007 and
    (iii) 84,639 shares of Common Stock on May 18,
    2008.



Aggregated Option Exercises in 2004 and Fiscal Year-End
Option Values

The following table provides information on stock option
exercises and the number and the year-end value of options held
by the named executive officers.

Number of Shares of

Common Stock Underlying

Value of Unexercised

Unexercised Options At

In-the-Money Options at

December 31, 2004 (#)

December 31, 2004 ($)(1)

Shares Acquired

Value

Name

on Exercise (#)

Realized ($)

Exercisable

Unexercisable

Exercisable

Unexercisable

David A. Bell

None


218,078

570,683


752,000

Michael I. Roth

None



165,974


70,459

Christopher J. Coughlin

None


50,000




Nicholas Cyprus

None



118,797



John J. Dooner, Jr.

None


668,840

719,451

448,214

664,426

Stephen J. Gatfield

None



30,000



(1)

Calculated based on the closing price of $13.400 for the Common
    Stock on December 31, 2004.



Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment and Change
in Control Arrangements

Employment Agreements

Each of the following named executive officers has an employment
agreement with us. Each employment agreement includes provisions
describing the named executive officer’s position and
responsibilities, his salary and eligibility for incentive
compensation. Each agreement also includes covenants pursuant to
which the named executive officer agrees not to divulge our
confidential information and agrees for a period of time after
termination of employment to refrain from soliciting our
employees and from soliciting or handling the business of our
clients. The termination date of the respective employment
agreements and the current salary of each of the named executive
officers are set forth below:

Name

Salary

Termination Date

David A. Bell

$

1,000,000

None*

Michael I. Roth

1,100,000

None*

Christopher J. Coughlin

800,000

**

Nicholas Cyprus

483,400

None*

John J. Dooner, Jr.

1,250,000

None*

Stephen J. Gatfield

850,000

None*

*

The executive’s employment has no termination date. We may
    terminate the executive’s employment in the manner
    described in the summary of the executive’s employment
    agreement below.

**

Mr. Coughlin’s Employment Agreement has been
    terminated. See Item 11. Executive Compensation —
    Employment Contracts Termination of Employment and
    Change-In-Control Arrangements-Termination and Change In Control
    Agreements-Christopher Coughlin Separation Agreement.

David Bell Employment Agreement

Effective January 18, 2005, David Bell became our
Co-Chairman and entered into an employment agreement us,
replacing both his previous agreement with us and his employment
agreement with True North Communications, Inc. (“True
North”) to which we became a party when we acquired True
North in June of 2001. The agreement provides that in addition
to his annual salary in the amount indicated above,
Mr. Bell will be eligible for an target annual bonus under
the Annual Management Incentive Plan equal to 133% of his base
salary, with the actual award between 0% and 200% of the target
depending on our performance, his individual performance, and
management discretion. The agreement also provides that we are
obligated to purchase an annuity on his behalf in the amount of
$2 million, with the terms and conditions of payment of the
annuity to be agreed upon between us and Mr. Bell, a car
and driver and a garage space in New York City.

Under the agreement (i) we may terminate
Mr. Bell’s employment with or without
“cause” (as that term is defined in the agreement) and
(ii) at any time after January 18, 2006, Mr. Bell
may voluntarily terminate his employment upon providing the
requisite notice to us. In the event we terminate
Mr. Bell’s employment without “cause,” he
would continue to receive payment of his base salary for a
period of 12 months and all employee benefits accorded to
him prior to the termination of his employment, as well as
suitable office space, the services of an assistant and a car
and driver. In the event we terminate Mr. Bell’s
employment without “cause” or through a voluntary
termination, the agreement provides that (a) Mr. Bell
shall become a consultant to us for a period of five years (the
“Consulting Period”), subject to our right to
terminate the consulting arrangement for “cause,” and
(b) stock options grants and restricted stock awards
previously awarded to Mr. Bell will fully vest on the date
of the termination of Mr. Bell’s employment. During
the Consulting Period, Mr. Bell is required to make himself
available, upon reasonable notice, to provide services that are
commensurate with his years of experience and level of skill for
no more than the equivalent of ten full business days per
quarter. As compensation for his consulting services,
Mr. Bell will receive an annual consulting fee of $750,000.
Upon termination for



“cause,” Mr. Bell would be entitled to received
his salary through the date of termination, but no other
benefits under the agreement.

Michael Roth Employment Agreement

On July 13, 2004, in connection with becoming our Executive
Chairman, Mr. Roth entered into an employment agreement,
which provided for (i) an annual salary of $950,000,
(ii) a target annual bonus under the Annual Management
Incentive Plan equal to 133% of his base salary, with the actual
award between 0% and 150% of the target depending on our
profits, his individual performance, and management discretion,
(iii) a grant of restricted stock having an aggregate
market value of $1,050,000 on the date of grant vesting on the
third anniversary of the grant date, and (iv) a grant of
options to purchase shares of our Common Stock having an
aggregate market value of $1,050,000 on the grant date vesting
in equal annual amounts on the second, third and fourth
anniversaries of the grant date.

Mr. Roth’s agreement also provides that, commencing in
2005, he shall participate in our performance based long-term
incentive programs with a total expected annual target award
value of $2,100,000 provided in a manner consistent with those
provided to other executives and may comprise stock options,
restricted stock, performance-based restricted stock or another
form of incentive at the discretion of the Compensation
Committee, with awards subject to performance and vesting terms
and conditions consistent with those generally required of the
executive team. In addition, the agreement provides that
Mr. Roth is entitled to (i) participate in our Capital
Accumulation Plan, with an annual contribution of $100,000,
(ii) an automobile allowance of $10,000, (iii) a club
allowance of $20,000, (iv) a financial planning allowance
of $2,500, and (v) participate in such other employee
benefits and programs as are available from time to time to
other key management executives generally.

After Mr. Roth, effective January 19, 2005, became our
Chief Executive Officer in addition to the Chairman, we entered
into a supplement to his employment agreement increasing his
base salary to $1,100,000 and granting him (i) options to
purchase 450,000 shares of our Common Stock vesting in
three equal installments on the second, third and fourth
anniversaries of the date of grant, and
(ii) 450,000 shares of restricted stock, of which
150,000 shares will vest on the second anniversary of the
grant date, subject to our achieving specified performance goals
over such two year period, and 300,000 shares will vest on
the fifth anniversary of the grant date, subject to our
achieving specified performance goals over such five year period.

If we terminate Mr. Roth’s employment without
“cause” (as defined in the agreement), he is entitled
to receive a severance payment equal to the amount by which his
annual salary rate exceeds the salary paid to him over the
period beginning on the date such notice is given and ending on
the employment termination date (the “Severance
Period”). During the Severance Period, Mr. Roth will
be entitled to receive all employee benefits accorded him prior
to termination which are made available to employees generally
until he accepts employment with another employer offering
similar benefits. Mr. Roth may terminate his employment at
any time by giving us notice at least three months in advance.

Nicholas Cyprus Employment Agreement

On May 24, 2004, we entered into an employment agreement
with Mr. Cyprus. The agreement provides that in addition to
his annual salary in the amount indicated above, Mr. Cyprus
will be eligible for a target annual bonus under the Annual
Management Incentive Plan equal to at least 50% of his base
salary, with a guaranteed minimum award for 2004 equal to 75% of
the target award (without pro-ration) and with the actual award
in future years dependent on the achievement of established
performance criteria. Under the agreement, Mr. Cyrus
received a cash sign-on bonus of $1,830,000, but which is
subject to forfeiture if within two years either
(i) Mr. Cyprus terminates his employment other than
for “good reason” (as defined by the agreement) or
(ii) we terminate his employment for “cause” (as
defined by the agreement). In addition, the agreement provides
that Mr. Cyprus is entitled to (i) participate in our
Capital Accumulation Plan, with an annual contribution by us of
$80,000, (ii) a perquisite allowance of $45,000,
(iii) in the event we terminate his employment, other than
for “cause”, post-termination



personal and family medical coverage to age 65 at a level
comparable with the coverage being provided by us to active
employees, and (iv) participate in such other employee
benefits and programs as are available from time to time to
other key management executives generally.

The agreement also provides for (i) a long-term incentive
grant of restricted stock having an aggregate market value of
$1,000,000 on the date of grant vesting in three equal annual
amounts on the first, second and third anniversaries of the
grant date, (ii) a long-term incentive grant of options to
purchase shares of our Common Stock having an aggregate
Black-Scholes value of $600,000 on the date of grant, vesting in
three equal annual amounts on the first, second and third
anniversaries of the grant date, (iii) a long-term
incentive grant of restricted stock having an aggregate market
value of $250,000 vesting on the third anniversary date of the
grant date, and (iv) a grant of options to purchase shares
of our Common Stock having an aggregate Black-Scholes value of
$250,000 vesting in equal annual amounts on the second, third
and fourth anniversaries of the grant date.

If we terminate Mr. Cyprus’ employment without
“cause” (as defined in the agreement) or
Mr. Cyprus terminates his employment for “good
reason” (as defined by the agreement), (i) he will be
entitled to the continued payment of his base salary for a
period of 24 months if his employment is terminated on of
before May 24, 2006, or for a period of 12 months if
his employment is terminated thereafter (the “severance
period”), and during the severance period, the payment of
bonuses that become payable during the severance period and,
unless he commences employment with another employer offering
similar benefits, the continued receipt of all employee benefits
accorded him prior to termination and (ii) the $1,000,000
restricted stock and the $600,000 stock option grants referred
to above will become non-forfeitable. Mr. Cyprus may
terminate his employment at any time by giving us notice at
least 45 days in advance.

John Dooner Employment Agreement

On January 1, 1994, we entered into an employment agreement
with Mr. Dooner dated January 1, 1994. On
April 1, 2000, we entered into a supplement to
Mr. Dooner’s agreement increasing his base salary to
$1,250,000. On November 7, 2002, we entered into a
supplemental agreement with Mr. Dooner which provides for
us to obtain a 10 year $10,000,000 term life insurance
policy for Mr. Dooner and to pay the annual premiums of
such policy, which shall be taxable income to Mr. Dooner.

If we terminate Mr. Dooner’s employment, other than
for violating certain covenants contained in the agreement,
(i) he will be entitled to the continued payment of his
base salary for a period of 12 months. Mr. Dooner may
terminate his employment at any time by giving us notice at
least twelve months in advance.

Stephen Gatfield Employment Agreement

On February 2, 2004, we entered into an employment
agreement with Mr. Gatfield, which provided for the
commencement of his employment to begin on April 1, 2004
(the “Commencement Date”). The agreement provides that
in addition to his annual salary in the amount indicated above,
Mr. Gatfield will be eligible for a target annual bonus
under the Annual Management Incentive Plan equal to 100% of his
base salary, with a guaranteed minimum award for 2004 equal to
50% of his base salary and with the actual award in future years
up to a maximum of 150% of base salary depending on our profits,
his individual performance, and management discretion. Under the
agreement, Mr. Gatfield received a cash sign-on bonus of
$750,000. In addition, the agreement provides that
Mr. Gatfield is entitled to (i) an automobile
allowance of $10,000, (ii) a club allowance of $25,000,
(iii) a financial planning allowance of $2,500, and
(iv) participate in such other employee benefits and
programs as are available from time to time to other key
management executives generally.

The agreement also provides for (i) a grant of
20,000 shares of restricted stock vesting on the first
anniversary of the grant date and (ii) a grant of options
to purchase 30,000 shares of our Common Stock, vesting
in equal annual amounts on the second, third and fourth
anniversaries of the grant date. We may terminate
Mr. Gatfield’s employment without “cause”
(as defined in the agreement) after the second



anniversary of the Commencement Date and Mr. Gatfield may
terminate his employment for “good reason” (as defined
by the agreement), which, under either event, he is entitled to
the continued payment of his base salary for a period of
12 months (the “severance period”), and during
the severance period, the payment of bonuses that become payable
during the severance period and, unless he commences employment
with another employer offering similar benefits, the continued
receipt of all employee benefits accorded him prior to
termination. During the severance period, (i) Mr. Gatfield
will be entitled to the payment of any bonuses that become
payable during the severance period and, unless he commences
employment with another employer offering similar benefits, the
continued receipt of all employee benefits accorded him prior to
termination and (ii) the restricted stock and stock option
grants referred to above will continue to vest.
Mr. Gatfield may terminate his employment at any time by
giving us notice at least 45 days in advance.

Deferred Benefit Arrangements

Bell Deferred Compensation Arrangement

Mr. Bell is a participant in the True North Communications
Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, which provides that if he dies
while he is employed by us, his beneficiaries will receive
$60,000 annually for 15 years. In addition, upon
Mr. Bell’s retirement at any age or the termination of
his employment we will pay him (or in the event of his death,
his beneficiaries) $60,000 per year for 15 years.

Special Deferred Benefit Agreements

Each of the following named executive officers have entered into
special deferred benefit agreements with us as described below.

In 2003, we entered into an agreement with Mr. Bell which
provides that if he dies while he is employed by us
$232,500 per year will be paid to his beneficiaries for
15 years following his death. In addition, if he retires,
resigns or is no longer our employee (other than by reason of
his death) on or after his 68th birthday, but before his
69th birthday, he will receive payments of
$204,600 per year for a period of 15 years, and if he
retires, resigns or is no longer our employee (other than by
reason of his death) on or after his 69th birthday, he will
receive payments of $232,500 per year for a period of
15 years. If he ceases to be employed by us prior to his
68th birthday for any reason other than his death, he will
receive a lump sum payment of $150,000 for each full year (and a
pro rata portion for each partial year) that he was our employee
beginning from the date he entered into the agreement.

After Mr. Bell’s employment terminates, if he were to
die before all applicable payments were made under the
agreement, we would make the remaining payments to his
beneficiaries.

Mr. Dooner is a party to three agreements which in the
aggregate provide that if he dies while he is employed by us
$2,186,000 per year will be paid to his beneficiaries for
15 years following his death. In addition, if
Mr. Dooner’s employment is terminated due to him
becoming disabled $2,186,000 per year will be paid to him
for 15 years following such termination. Alternatively, if
he retires, resigns or is otherwise no longer our employee
(other than by reason of his death) he will receive payments for
15 years ranging from $930,200 to $2,186,000 per year,
depending upon the year his employment terminates.
Mr. Dooner is a party to a fourth agreement that provides
that if he dies while he is employed by us, $240,000 per
year will be paid to his beneficiaries for 15 years
following his death. Alternatively, if he retires, resigns or is
otherwise no longer our employee (other than by reason of his
death) on or after his 56th birthday he will receive
payments for 15 years ranging from $153,600 to
$240,000 per year, depending upon the year his employment
terminates. In the event Mr. Dooner’s employment
terminates prior to his 56th birthday (other than by reason
of death), he will be paid lesser sums but not less than an
aggregate of $700,000. We have also entered into an agreement
with Mr. Dooner which provides that (i) if he dies
while he is employed by us, his beneficiaries will receive
$88,500 annually for 15 years, (ii) if his employment
is terminated due to him becoming disabled, $88,500 per
year will be paid to him for 15 years following such
termination or (iii) upon his retirement he will receive
retirement benefits at the rate of $88,500 per year for
15 years.



After Mr. Dooner’s employment terminates, if he were
to die before all applicable payments were made under these
agreements, we would make the remaining payments to his
beneficiaries.

Mr. Coughlin is a party to an agreement with us that
provides if he dies while employed by us, his beneficiaries will
be paid $200,000 per year for 15 years. If he retires
from employment with us on or after his 60th birthday, we
will make payments to him for 15 years of $200,000 per
year, and if he retires, resigns or his employment is terminated
on or after his 59th birthday but prior to his
60th birthday, he will receive payments for 15 years
of $176,000 per year. If he ceased to be our employee
(other than by reason of death) prior to his 59th birthday, he
will receive lesser sums but not less than $75,000. If his
employment is terminated prior to June 16, 2005 (other than
for cause or voluntary resignation), then in addition to any
other payments to which he would be entitled under the agreement
he would receive an annuity payment of $50,000 per year for
15 years commencing on his 60th birthday.

Mr. Coughlin’s employment was terminated on
December 31, 2004. In accordance with the terms of his
agreement with us described in the previous paragraph,
Mr. Coughlin will receive $168,548 to be paid in 21 equal
monthly installments.

Termination and Change in Control Agreements

Christopher Coughlin Separation Agreement

Effective December 31, 2004, Mr. Coughlin resigned
from all positions that he held with us. In connection with his
resignation, we entered into a Confidential Separation Agreement
and General Release with Mr. Coughlin (the “Separation
Agreement”).

The Separation Agreement provided that Mr. Coughlin would
remain eligible for his annual bonus under the Interpublic
Annual Management Incentive Plan and to defer amounts under his
Special Deferred Benefit Agreement described above under the
heading Deferred Benefit Arrangements

-

Special Deferred
Benefit Agreements.

In addition, the Separation Agreement accelerated the vesting of
50,000 stock options (25% of the 200,000 stock options granted
to Mr. Coughlin upon the commencement of his employment)
and allowed the accelerated options to remain exercisable for a
90-day period following December 31, 2004. The balance of
his options was forfeited.

Executive Severance Agreements

We have entered into an agreement with each of the named
executive officers, other than Mr. Bell, pursuant to which
a cash severance payment would become payable to the executive
individual if, within two years after a “change of
control,” (i) we terminate the executive’s
employment other than for “cause” or (ii) the
executive resigns for “good reason.”

The agreements provide that a “change of control”
occurs if: (a) any person, other than Interpublic or any of
its subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner (within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended) of 30% or more of the combined voting power of
our then outstanding voting securities; (b) the
stockholders approve an agreement to merge or consolidate with
another corporation (other than one of our subsidiaries) or an
agreement to sell or dispose of all or substantially all of our
the business or assets; or (c) during any period of two
consecutive years, individuals who, at the beginning of such
period, constituted the Board of Directors cease for any reason
to constitute at least a majority thereof, unless the election
or the nomination for election by our stockholders of each new
director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the
directors then still in office who were directors at the
beginning of the period.

Under the agreements, we shall have “cause” to
terminate an executive, following a “change of
control”, if the executive: (a) engages in conduct
that constitutes a felony and that results in the personal
enrichment of the executive at our expense; (b) refuses to
substantially perform his responsibilities for us; or
(c) deliberately and materially breaches any agreement
between himself and us and fails to remedy that



breach within a 30-day cure period. An executive may resign for
“good reason” following a “change in
control” if, without his consent, in any circumstance other
than his disability, his office in Interpublic or the
geographical area of his employment should be changed or his
compensation should not continue to be paid and increased on the
same basis as had been in effect prior to the “change of
control” or the individual should determine in good faith
that we had, without his consent, effected a significant change
in his status within, or the nature or scope of his duties or
responsibilities with, us and we failed to cure such situation
within 30 days after written notice from the individual.

The severance payment to which an executive, other than
Messrs. Cyprus and Gatfield, would be entitled is equal to
three times the individual’s average annual compensation
during the two calendar years ended prior to the date of a
“change of control”. Messrs. Cyprus and Gatfield
are entitled to receive two times such executive’s average
annual compensation. In addition, each executive is entitled to
receive a partial annual bonus based on the most recent bonus
paid to such executive within the two years preceding the year
such executive is terminated prorated for the elapsed portion of
the year in which employment terminated. In general, if no bonus
was paid to an executive in such prior years, such executive
would be entitled to a pro rata bonus based on the greater of
the last bonus actually awarded to such executive and the target
bonus award established for such executive. The average
compensation used in calculating the severance payment would be
the executive’s taxable compensation plus any deferred
compensation accrued during the two relevant years, but would
not include any deferred compensation earned in prior years but
paid during the two years and would not include any taxable
compensation relating to any of our stock option or restricted
stock plans.

Each agreement also provides that if the executive’s
employment terminates in circumstances entitling him to a
severance payment, he will, for a period of 18 months
following the termination of his employment, neither
(a) solicit any of our employees to leave such employ to
enter into the employ of the individual, or any person or entity
with which the individual is associated, nor (b) solicit or
handle, on his own behalf or on behalf of any person or entity
with which he is associated, the advertising, public relations,
sales promotion or market research business of any advertiser
which was a client of ours on the date the individual’s
employment terminates.

The agreements give the executive an option to limit payment
under the agreements to such sum as would avoid subjecting the
individual to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the
Internal Revenue Code.

Also under the severance agreements, sums previously deferred by
the executive pursuant to employment agreements and under the
Management Incentive Compensation Plans and amounts payable
under Special Deferred Benefit Agreements would become payable
within 30 days following a “change of control” if
the individual has elected to receive the distribution prior to
the “change of control.”

In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement between
us and Mr. Coughlin, Mr. Coughlin’s Executive
Severance Agreement was terminated, effective December 31,
2004.

The Interpublic Senior Executive Retirement Income Plan

Effective as of August 1, 2003, we established a Senior
Executive Retirement Income Plan (“SERIP”) to provide
our US-based senior executives with certain retirement benefits.
This new plan is intended to replace our prior program of
providing Special Deferred Benefit Agreements to key executives
selected by the Compensation Committee. In general, under the
SERIP, we will provide an eligible participant with a monthly
payment for 15 years beginning upon the termination of the
executive’s employment at age of 60 and after any
non-competition and non-solicitation agreements of the executive
have expired. However, a participant who is at least age 55
and who has completed at least five years of participation in
the SERIP may elect to receive a reduced benefit. Each
participant must execute a Participation Agreement that provides
for the amount of the annual benefit to be paid. Generally, at
the end of three years of participation in the SERIP, 30% of the
annual benefit is vested, with the vested portion increasing by
10% for the next seven years. However, if the executive breaches
a non-competition or non-solicitation agreement, the
executive’s entire vested benefit is subject to forfeiture.
Any participant



who is a party to a Special Deferred Benefit Agreement at the
time the participant begins to participate in the SERIP is
deemed to have participated in the SERIP for up to three years.
Any portion of a participant’s benefit that is not vested
will be forfeited upon termination of employment.

An executive who becomes disabled will continue to participate
fully in the SERIP until the executive’s employment
terminates. If an executive dies before his benefit is fully
vested, the participant’s will be entitled to only the
vested portion of the benefit.

Of the named executive officers, only Mr. Gatfield
participates in the SERIP. Under his Participation Agreement,
Mr. Gatfield will be entitled to receive an annual payment
of $200,000 per year. This benefit will become fully vest
on April 14, 2014.

The Interpublic Capital Accumulation Plan

Effective as of August 1, 2003, we established a Capital
Accumulation Plan (“CAP”) to provide deferred
compensation to our senior management employees selected by the
Management Human Resources Committee (the
“Committee”). This new plan is intended to replace our
prior program of providing Special Deferred Benefit Agreements
to key executives. Under the plan, a participant receives an
annual credit of a specified dollar amount on December 31
of each year that the participant continues to be employed by
us. The credited amount accrues interest each year at an
applicable interest rate which can be adjusted upward or
downward at the discretion of the Committee. This account
balance becomes fully vested as to both prior and future dollar
and interest credits when the executive has completed three
years of participation in the CAP, except that all interest
credits are subject to forfeiture if the executive breaches a
non-competition or non-solicitation agreement. Any portion of a
participant’s benefit that is not vested will be forfeited
upon termination of employment.

The vested account balance will be distributed following
termination of employment with us and the expiration of any
non-competition and non-solicitation agreements of the executive
at such time as the executive shall elect. Unless otherwise
specified by the participant, the vested account balance will be
paid by us in a lump sum payment. Alternatively, a participant
whose employment terminates after age 55 and who has
completed at least five years of participation in the CAP may
elect a distribution in monthly installment over a period of
between 10 and 15 years. Each participant must execute a
Participation Agreement that specifies for the amount of the
annual credit. An executive who becomes disabled will continue
to participate fully in the CAP until the executive’s
employment terminates. An executive who dies before his account
balance is vested will forfeit the entire account balance.

Of the named executive officers, only Messrs. Cyprus and
Roth participate in the CAP. Under Mr. Cyprus’
Participation Agreement, he is entitled to an annual credit of
$80,000 and his account balance will fully vest on May 15,
2007. Under Mr. Roth’s Participation Agreement, he is
entitled to an annual credit of $100,000 and his account balance
will fully vest on May 15, 2007. During 2004, interest was
credited at the rate of 4.25%.

Retirement Plan

As of January 1, 1992, we adopted the Interpublic
Retirement Account Plan to provide benefits under a “cash
balance formula” to most of our employees who have at least
five years of service. Each year a participant’s account
balance is credited with an amount equal to a percentage of the
participant’s annual compensation and interest credits. The
percentage of annual compensation varies based on the sum of the
participant’s age and years of service from 1.5% for
participants with a sum less than 40 years to 5% for
participants with a sum of 80 or more years. Interest credits
are based on the 1-year US Treasury bill rate plus
1 percentage point, compounded quarterly, and are
guaranteed to be at least 5% per year, compounded quarterly.

Until July 31, 1987, most of our employees were entitled in
general to receive at retirement a monthly retirement benefit
pursuant to a defined benefit pension formula computed as a
percentage of average monthly compensation during the five
consecutive calendar years with highest compensation with certain



exclusions. The percentage of average monthly compensation used
to calculate the monthly benefit was determined by multiplying
the number of years of accredited service (which is defined in
the Plan as the period of participation in the Plan) by 1.3%.

Beginning July 31, 1987, the method of calculating the
pension benefit was changed to a career average formula based on
annual compensation. The percentage of annual compensation used
to calculate the benefit was 1% of each year’s compensation
up to $15,000 plus 1.3% of any compensation in excess of that
amount.

Participants under the defined benefit pension formula on
December 31, 1991, had their normal retirement benefit
converted on an actuarial basis into an “opening cash
balance” as of January 1, 1992. In addition,
participants continued to accrue benefits pursuant to the career
average formula and became eligible to receive upon retirement
the higher of (1) the participant’s benefit under the
cash balance formula or (2) the participant’s accrued
retirement benefit under the career average formula as of
December 31, 1991, plus any accrual after that date
calculated pursuant to the career average formula. Employees
hired by us after December 31, 1991, were eligible to
accrue benefits only under the cash balance formula.

With certain minor exceptions, “compensation” under
the career average formula as well as the cash balance formula
includes all compensation subject to federal income tax
withholding. Annual compensation for pension accruals since
December 31, 1988 has been limited by federal tax law.

As of March 31, 1998, we froze benefit accruals under the
Interpublic Retirement Account Plan and participants whose
benefits were not already vested became fully vested as of
April 1, 1998. Retirement account balances as of that date
will continue to be credited with interest until benefits begin
in accordance with the generally applicable Plan provisions, but
additional allocations by us have been discontinued as of
March 31, 1998.

Effective April 1, 1998, employees with five or more years
of Retirement Account Plan participation began to participate in
a new Compensation Plan. Under the New Compensation Plan, an
account is established for each eligible employee and credited
with up to ten annual allocations depending on the
employee’s years of participation in the Retirement Account
Plan. Each annual allocation approximates the discontinued
allocations under the Retirement Account Plan. In general, the
balance in each employee’s account begins to vest gradually
after five years of participation in the new Compensation Plan.
Payouts generally are made while the employee is still employed
by us.

Mr. Dooner is the only eligible participant in both the
Retirement Account Plan and the New Compensation Plan. The
estimated annual retirement benefit that Mr. Dooner would
receive at the normal retirement age of 65 years old,
payable as a straight life annuity under the Interpublic
Retirement Account Plan is $62,185. Alternatively,
Mr. Dooner could take the benefit as a lump sum estimated
at $740,292.

Under the New Compensation Plan, Mr. Dooner will receive,
prior to normal retirement age, a total distribution in the
amount of $108,500.

Messrs. Bell, Coughlin, Cyprus, Gatfield and Roth each were
hired by us after the Retirement Age Account Plan was
frozen and accordingly are not entitled to receive any benefits
under the Interpublic Retirement Account Plan or the New
Compensation Plan.

Non-Management Directors’ Compensation

Each Non-Management Director receives as cash compensation for
services rendered, an annual retainer of $40,000, an annual
retainer of $2,000 for each committee on which he or she serves,
a fee of $1,500 for each meeting of the Board attended and a fee
of $1,500 for each committee meeting attended. The Chairperson
of the Compensation Committee, the Chairperson of the Finance
Committee and the Chairperson of the Corporate Governance
Committee each receives an additional retainer of
$7,500 per year and the Chairperson of the Audit Committee
receives an additional retainer of $10,000 per year.



As Presiding Director of the Board, Mr. Borelli receives an
annual retainer of $50,000, reduced from $200,000 effective
March 2, 2005.

Each Non-Management Director also receives, as consideration for
services rendered as a member of the Board, stock-based
compensation under the Interpublic Non-Management
Directors’ Stock Incentive Plan, which was approved by the
stockholders in 2004 (the “Non-Management Directors’
Plan”) and replaced the Outside Directors Stock Incentive
Plan (the “Outside Directors’ Plan”). The
Non-Management Directors’ Plan to provide for an annual
grant to each Non-Management Director of
(i) 800 shares of our Common Stock that are not
subject to transfer restrictions or forfeiture (the “Freely
Tradeable Shares”) and (ii) at the election of each
Non-Management Director, either (a) 1,600 restricted shares
of our Common Stock (“Restricted Shares”) or
(b) 1,600 restricted share units (“Share Units”).
The Non-Management Directors’ Plan provides that the grants
would be made each January, commencing with the year 2005, while
the Non-Management Directors’ Plan remains in effect. With
respect to the Restricted Shares, the recipient has all rights
of ownership, including the right to vote and to receive
dividends, except that, prior to the expiration of a three-year
period after the date of grant (the “Restricted
Period”), the recipient is prohibited from selling or
otherwise transferring the shares. With respect to the Share
Units, and subject to the expiration of Restricted Period, each
recipient has the right to receive at the time such
recipient’s service as a director terminates, a cash
payment in an amount equal to the fair market value of the
corresponding number of shares of Common Stock. At the
discretion of the Corporate Governance Committee, the Share
Units balance of a Non-Management Director may be credited with
additional Share Units corresponding to any dividends that are
paid from time on the Common Stock. If, on or after the first
anniversary of the grant of the Restricted Shares or the Share
Units, as applicable, the recipient’s service as a director
terminates for any reason (including death) during the
Restricted Period, the respective restrictions will lapse
immediately in proportion that the number of months that have
elapsed since the date of grant bears to the total number of
months of the Restricted Period, and the remainder of such
Restricted Shares or the remaining value of the Restricted
Units, as applicable, will be forfeited. If the recipient’s
service as a director terminates for any reason (including
death) before the first anniversary of the date of grant, all
such Restricted Shares and Share Units, as applicable, will be
forfeited. The Corporate Governance Committee, which is
responsible for the administration of the Non-Management
Directors’ Plan, may in its discretion direct us to make
cash payments to the recipient of Restricted Shares to assist in
satisfying the federal income tax liability with respect to the
receipt or vesting of the Restricted Shares.

On March 9, 2004, in accordance with the Outside
Director’s Plan, each of Ms. Considine and
Messrs. Borelli, Brack, Goldstein, Greeniaus, Roth and
Samper received a grant of 800 Freely-Tradeable Shares of Common
Stock and a grant of 1,600 Restricted Shares. In 2005, in
accordance with the Non-Management Directors’ Plan, each of
Ms. Considine and Messrs. Borelli, Brack, Goldstein,
Greeniaus, Samper and Thomas received a grant of 800
Freely-Tradeable Shares and 1,600 Restricted Shares.

Mr. Goldstein and Ms. Considine each has an agreement
with us for the deferral of all fees that the individual is
entitled to receive as a director or as a member of any
committee of the Board of Directors. The amounts deferred earn
credits equivalent to interest in accordance with the terms of
our Plan for Credits Equivalent to Interest on Balances of
Deferred Compensation Owing under Employment Agreements.
Payments of the amounts deferred, together with accrued
interest, will be made to the director, or his or her designated
beneficiaries as the case may be, in a lump-sum upon the
director’s death, disability or retirement from the Board.
Each Non-Management Director who, as of December 31, 1995,
had accumulated at least five years of service is entitled to
receive an annual retirement benefit under the Interpublic
Outside Directors’ Pension Plan (the “Outside
Directors’ Pension Plan”). In general, the benefit
becomes payable in the month following the month the director
leaves the Board. The benefit is equal to the amount of the
annual retainer paid to the director as a Board member in the
year in which he or she ceased to serve as a director and will
be paid for the same number of years as the director’s
years of service, up to a maximum of 15 years. In the event
of the death of a director with a vested retirement benefit, the
then present value of the director’s unpaid retirement
benefits will be paid to the surviving spouse or the estate of
the director. Effective December 31, 1995, the Outside
Directors’ Pension



Plan was terminated, except to the extent benefits were accrued
prior to termination. As a result there have been no further
accruals for the benefit of existing directors under the Outside
Directors’ Pension Plan for subsequent years. Any director
with fewer than five years of service on the date that the Plan
was terminated will not receive any benefits under the Plan.
Mr. Samper is the only current director entitled to receive
benefits under the Outside Directors Pension Plan.

Five Year Performance Comparison

The table below provides an indicator of cumulative total
shareholder returns for our common stock compared with the
S&P 500 Stock Index (S&P 500) and our peer
group indices.







Interpublic

100.0

74.46

52.27

25.36

28.09

24.13

S&P 500

100.0

90.89

80.09

62.39

80.29

89.02

Peer Group(2)

100.0

80.11

69.67

46.01

59.32

59.43

Explanation

The graph assumes $100 is invested on December 31, 1999,
and that all dividends are reinvested. The Peer Group index for
2004 consists of Interpublic, Omnicom, Grey Advertising and WPP
Group. The Peer Group also included, for years prior to 2003,
Cordiant PLC which was acquired by WPP Group on August 1,
2003, for years prior to 2001, True North Communications, Inc.,
which was acquired by us in June 2001, and for the years
prior to 2000, Young and Rubicam, Inc., which was acquired by
WPP Group in October 2000. Total shareholder return is
weighted according to market capitalization at the beginning of
each annual period.



Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management

Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation
Plans

The following table provides information regarding the shares of
common stock to be issued or which may be issued under our
equity compensation plans:

Equity Compensation Plan Information

Number of Securities

Number of Shares of

Remaining Available for

Common Stock to

Weighted-

Future Issuance Under

be Issued Upon

Average Exercise

Equity Compensation

Exercise of

Price of

Plans (Excluding

Outstanding

Outstanding

Securities Reflected

Stock Options

Stock Options

in Column (a))

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(c)(1)

Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders

38,646,208

$

26.36

26,529,906

Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders(2)

840,075

$

27.53


(1)

Includes 11,681,753 shares of our common stock available
    for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Program (1995)
    (the “Stock Purchase Program”) as of December 31,
    2004. The Stock Purchase Program expired by its terms on
    June 30, 2005, and consequently, these shares are no longer
    available for issuance.

(2)

Consists of special stock option grants awarded to certain True
    North executives following our acquisition of True North
    (“True North Options”). The True North Options were
    granted on August 23, 2001 at the fair market value of our
    common stock on the date of the grant. The terms and conditions
    of these stock option awards are governed by our 1997
    Performance Incentive Plan which provides that stock options are
    exercisable as determined by the Compensation Committee of the
    Board of Directors. Generally, options become exercisable
    between two and five years after the date of the grant and
    expire ten years from the grant date. The True North Options
    vested approximately 40% and 30% on August 23, 2004
    and August 23, 2005, respectively, and will vest
    approximately 30% on August 23, 2006.



Outstanding Shares

Our outstanding capital stock at the close of business on
August 31, 2005 consisted of 427,268,023 shares of
Common Stock and 7,475,000 shares of


/


%
Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (the
“Series A Preferred Stock”). The following table
sets forth information concerning direct and indirect beneficial
ownership of our Common Stock as of December 31, 2004
(assuming no change in their beneficial ownership of Common
Stock since the date indicated) by persons known to us to have
beneficial ownership of more than 5% of the Common Stock:



reported that it is an investment adviser that has sole
    dispositive power with respect to 28,658,220 shares of
    Common Stock including 2,664,220 shares issuable upon the
    conversion of 877,600 shares of the Series A Preferred
    Stock.

(6)

This disclosure is based on information supplied by Capital
    Group International Inc. (“CGI”) in an amended
    Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 14, 2005,
    in which CGI reported that it is a holding company of a group of
    investment management companies that in the aggregate have sole
    voting power with respect to 18,708,850 shares of Common
    Stock and sole dispositive power with respect to
    22,275,090 shares of Common Stock, including
    563,140 shares issuable upon the conversion of
    185,500 shares of Series A Preferred Stock.

(7)

This disclosure is based on information supplied by Pacific
    Financial Research, Inc. (“Pacific”) in an amended
    Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 11, 2005,
    in which Pacific reported that it is an investment adviser that
    has sole voting power with respect to 23,853,205 shares of
    Common Stock and sole dispositive power with respect to
    25,501,405 shares of Common Stock.

(8)

This disclosure is based on information supplied by Barclays
    Bank PLC and a number of its affiliates in a Schedule 13G
    filed with the SEC on February 14, 2005, in which Barclays
    Bank PLC and such affiliates report that collectively they have
    sole voting power with respect to 20,890,747 shares of
    Common Stock and sole dispositive power with respect to
    22,668,039 shares of Common Stock.

The following table sets forth information concerning the direct
and indirect beneficial ownership of our Common Stock as of
August 31, 2005 by each director, each nominee for election
as a director, each executive officer named in the Summary
Compensation Table, and all our directors and executive officers
as a group:

(1)

On January 19, 2005, Michael Roth succeeded David Bell as
    Chief Executive Officer.

(2)

Effective December 31, 2004, Mr. Coughlin resigned his
    position as Chief Financial Officer.

(3)

The rules of the SEC deem a person to be the beneficial owner of
    a security (for purposes of proxy statement disclosure) if that
    person has or shares either or both voting or dispositive power
    with respect to such security. Additionally, a security is
    deemed to be beneficially owned by a person who has the right to
    acquire beneficial ownership thereof within 60 days, for
    example through the exercise of a stock option. Common Stock
    ownership set forth in this table includes unvested shares of
    restricted stock awarded under any of the 2004 Performance
    Incentive Plan, 2002 Performance Incentive Plan, the 1997
    Performance Incentive Plan, the Interpublic Outside
    Directors’ Stock Incentive Plan and the Interpublic
    Non-Management Directors’ Stock Incentive Plan due to the
    right



Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

Since January 1, 2004, a brother of Christopher J.
Coughlin, who resigned as Chief Financial Officer of Interpublic
as of December 31, 2004, was employed by a subsidiary of
Interpublic at an annual salary of $250,000.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Fees Paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

The following table sets forth the aggregate fees billed by
PricewaterhouseCoopers for audit services performed in
connection with the our consolidated financial statements and
reports for fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively, and for
other services rendered us during those years.

Fee Category


% of Total


% of Total

Audit Fees

$

81,210,000


%

$

26,540,000


%

Audit Related Fees

3,692,100


%

3,909,000


%

Tax Fees

7,768,000


%

8,918,900


%

All Other Fees

—

—

Total Fees

$

92,670,100


%

$

39,367,900


%

Audit Fees:

Consists of fees billed for professional
services rendered for the audit of our consolidated financial
statements and review of the interim consolidated financial
statements included in quarterly reports and services that are
normally provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers in connection with
statutory and regulatory filings or engagements, and attest
services, except those not required by statute or regulation.

Audit Related Fees:

Consists of fees billed for assurance
and related services that are reasonably related to the
performance of the audit or review of our consolidated financial
statements and are not reported under Audit Fees. These services
include employee benefit plan audits, accounting consultations
in connections with acquisitions/divestitures, assisting us with
our preparations for compliance with Section 404 of the
Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, and attest services that are not
required by statute or regulation.

Tax Fees:

Consists of tax compliance/preparation and
other tax services. Tax compliance/ preparation consist of fees
billed for professional services related to federal, state and
international tax compliance, assistance with tax audits and
appeals, assistance with custom and duties audits, expatriate
tax services and assistance related to the impact of mergers,
acquisitions and divestitures on tax return preparation. Other
tax services include miscellaneous tax consulting and planning.

All Other Fees:

There were no amounts that comprised
other fees.



Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible
Non-Audit Services of Independent Auditors

The Audit Committee approves all audit and permissible non-audit
services provided by the independent auditors. The permissible
non-audit services may include audit-related services,
tax-related services and all other services. The Audit Committee
has adopted a policy for the pre-approval of services provided
by the independent auditors. Under the policy, pre-approval is
generally provided for up to one year and any pre-approval is
detailed as to the particular service or category of services
and is subject to a specific budget. In addition, the Audit
Committee may pre-approve particular services on a case-by-case
basis. The Audit Committee has delegated pre-approval authority
to its Chairman for projects less than $100,000, who must report
any decision to the Audit Committee at the next scheduled
meeting.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) Listed below are all financial statements, financial
statement schedules and exhibits filed as part of this Report on
Form 10-K.

1.

Financial Statements:

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity
and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

2.

Financial Statement Schedules:

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
Financial Statement Schedule

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (for the three years ended
December 31, 2004)

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable.

3.

Exhibits:

(Numbers used are the numbers assigned in Item 601 of
Regulation S-K and the EDGAR Filer Manual. An additional
copy of this exhibit index immediately precedes the exhibits
filed with this Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits
transmitted to the SEC as part of the electronic filing of this
Report.)

























SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.

(Registrant)

By:

/s/ Michael I. Roth*

Michael I. Roth

Chairman of the Board

and Chief Executive Officer

September 30, 2005

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.





EXHIBIT INDEX























Exhibit No.

Description

(31.1)

Certification dated as of September 30, 2005 and executed
    by Michael I. Roth, under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act of 2002 (“S-OX”).

(31.2)

Certification dated as of September 30, 2005 and executed
    by Frank Mergenthaler, under Section 302 of S-OX.

(32)

Certification dated as of September 30, 2005 and executed
    by Michael I. Roth and Frank Mergenthaler, furnished pursuant to
    Section 906 of S-OX.

262