Item 1.Business.

V.F. Corporation, organized in 1899, is a worldwide leader in branded lifestyle apparel, footwear and related products. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “VF,” “we,”
“us” and “our” used herein refer to V.F. Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our stated vision is: VF will grow by building leading lifestyle brands that excite consumers around the world.

For over 100 years, VF has offered consumers high quality, high value branded apparel and related products. Since
2004, we have been implementing a strategy that is transforming VF’s mix of business to include more lifestyle brands. Lifestyle brands are those brands that connect closely with consumers because they are aspirational and inspirational; they
reflect consumers’ specific activities and interests. Lifestyle brands generally extend across multiple product categories and have higher than average gross margins. Accordingly, this transformation has included the acquisitions of many
lifestyle brands in recent years, includingTimberland®,Vans®,Reef®,Kipling®,Napapijri®,7 For All Mankind®,lucy®,Splendid®andElla Moss®. At the same time, we have continued to invest in all of our businesses through geographic expansion, retail store openings, product line extensions, product
innovation, consumer research and advertising.

VF is a highly diversified apparel company — across brands, product
categories, channels of distribution and geographies. VF owns a broad portfolio of brands in the jeanswear, outerwear, footwear, packs, luggage, sportswear, occupational and performance apparel categories. These products are marketed to consumers
shopping in specialty stores, upscale and traditional department stores, national chains and mass merchants. Our direct-to-consumer operations generate a growing portion of our revenues, currently 19%, from sales to consumers through VF-operated
stores and internet sites. VF derives 34% of its revenues from outside the United States, primarily in Europe, Asia, Canada, Mexico and Latin America. VF branded products are also sold in many countries through independent licensees, distributors
and partnership stores. To provide diversified products across multiple channels of distribution in different geographic areas, we balance efficient and flexible internally-owned manufacturing with sourcing of finished goods from independent
contractors. We utilize state-of-the-art technologies for inventory replenishment that enable us to effectively and efficiently get the right assortment of products which match consumer demand to our customers’ shelves.

VF’s businesses are organized primarily into product categories, and by brands within those categories, for both management and
internal financial reporting purposes. These groupings of businesses are called “coalitions” and consist of the following: Outdoor & Action Sports, Jeanswear, Imagewear, Sportswear and Contemporary Brands. These coalitions are our
reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. Coalition management has responsibility to build their brands, with certain financial, administrative and systems support and disciplines provided by central functions within VF.

We consider our Outdoor & Action Sports, Sportswear and Contemporary Brands coalitions to be our lifestyle coalitions, which
have the potential to achieve higher long-term revenue, profit growth and profit margins than our other businesses. Our Jeanswear and Imagewear coalitions are our heritage businesses which have historically strong levels of profitability and cash
flows but lower revenue growth rates.






The following table summarizes VF’s primary owned and licensed brands by coalition:



CoalitionPrimary BrandsPrimary ProductsOutdoor & Action SportsThe North
Face®Vans®high performance apparel, footwear, outdoor gearskateboard-inspired footwear, apparelTimberland®outdoor adventure-oriented apparel and footwearSmartWool®merino wool apparel, socks and accessoriesJanSport®backpacks, luggage, apparelEastpak®backpacks, apparelKipling®handbags, luggage, backpacks, accessories (outside North America)Napapijri®premium outdoor apparelReef®surf-inspired footwear, apparelEagle Creek®luggage, packs, travel accessorieslucy®women’s activewearJeanswearWrangler®denim and casual bottoms, topsLee®denim and casual bottoms, topsRiders®denim and casual bottoms, topsRustler®denim and casual bottoms, topsTimber Creek by Wrangler®denim and casual bottoms, topsImagewearRed Kap®occupational apparelBulwark®protective occupational apparelMajestic®athletic apparelMLB®(licensed)licensed athletic apparelNFL®(licensed)licensed athletic apparelHarley-Davidson®(licensed)licensed apparelSportswearNautica®men’s fashion sportswear, denim bottoms, sleepwear, accessories, underwearKipling®handbags, luggage, backpacks, accessories (within North America)Contemporary Brands7 For All Mankind®John Varvatos®premium denim and casual bottoms, sportswear, accessoriesluxury men’s apparel, footwear, accessoriesSplendid®premium women’s sportswearElla Moss®premium women’s sportswear

Financial information regarding VF’s coalitions is included in Note Q to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, which are included at Item 8 of this report.

Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition

Our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition, VF’s fastest growing business, is a group of authentic lifestyle brands which are
outdoor and activity-based. Product offerings include outerwear, performance wear, snow sports gear, sportswear, footwear, equipment, backpacks, luggage and accessories.






The North Face®is the largest brand in our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition, and is sold around the world. (In Japan and South Korea,The North Face®trademarks are owned by a third party.)The North
Face®apparel lines consist of performance wear, outerwear, snow sports gear, functional sportswear and
footwear for men, women and children. Its equipment line consists of tents, sleeping bags, backpacks and accessories. Many ofThe North Face®products are designed for extreme applications, such as high altitude mountaineering and ice and rock climbing, although many consumers purchase these products
because they represent a lifestyle to which they aspire.The North Face®products are marketed through
specialty outdoor and premium sporting goods stores in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia and select department stores in the United States. In addition, these products are sold through over 80 VF-operated full price and outlet stores in the
United States, Europe and Asia and online at www.thenorthface.com. The brand is also sold through agents, distributors, and over 350The North Face®stores operated by independent third parties outside the United States.

The Timberland Company, acquired by VF in September 2011, designs, develops and markets premium quality footwear,
apparel and accessories for men, women and children under theTimberland®,Timberland PRO®,Timberland Boot Company®, andSmartWool®brands.Timberland®brand footwear offerings include (i) basic, premium and sport boots, including
hiking boots; (ii) handsewn oxfords, boat shoes and casual footwear; and (iii) performance footwear. TheTimberland®brand offers outdoor adventure and outdoor leisure products that combine performance benefits
and versatile styling.Timberland®products are sold (i) to retail accounts through the wholesale
channel, (ii) through 200 VF-operated stores, (iii) online at www.timberland.com and (iv) through independent distributors, licensees and partnership stores. TheTimberland PRO®series is a footwear category developed to address the distinct needs of skilled tradespeople and working professionals.SmartWool®is a mountain-based apparel brand that offers active outdoor consumers a premium, technical layering system of
merino wool socks, apparel and accessories that are designed to work together in fit, form and function.SmartWool®products are sold through premium outdoor and specialty retailers, outdoor chains, better
department stores and online at www.smartwool.com. OurEarthkeepers®series uses materials like recycled
PET from plastic bottles, organic cotton and outsoles made with recycled rubber.

Vans®brand performance and casual footwear and apparel is designed for skateboard, bicycle motocross
(“BMX”), surf and snow sports participants and enthusiasts. Products are sold on a wholesale basis through national chain stores in the United States and through skate and surf shops and specialty stores in North America, Europe and Asia.
The brand’s products are also sold through over 310 ownedVans®full-price and outlet stores in the
United States, Mexico and Europe. These retail stores carry a wide variety ofVans®footwear, along with
a growing assortment of apparel and accessory items. VF is the 70% owner of theVans Warped Tour®music
festival, which presents over 40 rock bands performing in over 40 cities across North America each summer as well as online at www.vans.com.

JanSport®backpacks, duffel bags, luggage and accessories
are sold through department, office supply and national chain stores, as well as sports specialty stores and college bookstores in the United States.JanSport®backpacks have a leading market share in the United States. A technical line ofJanSport®backpacks is sold through outdoor and sporting goods stores.JanSport®fleece and T-shirts imprinted with college logos are sold through college bookstores and sporting goods stores in the United States. In Europe,Eastpak®andJanSport®backpacks, travel bags, luggage, and a line ofEastpak®clothing are sold primarily through department and specialty stores.Eastpak®is one of the leading backpack brands in Europe. TheJanSport®andEastpak®brands are also marketed throughout Asia by licensees and distributors.Eagle Creek®adventure travel
gear products include luggage, backpacks and accessories sold through specialty luggage stores, outdoor stores and department stores throughout North America, Europe and Asia.

Kipling®handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and accessories are stylish, colorful and fun products that are both practical and durable. The brand name comes from the
author ofThe Jungle Book, Rudyard Kipling. That also provides the connection to theKipling®monkey mascot key ring attached to every bag. Products are sold through specialty and department stores in Europe, Asia and South America, as well as through over 40 VF-operated and over 100 independently-operated stores and at www.kipling.com.
TheKipling®business in North America is managed as part of the Sportswear Coalition.






Derived from the Finnish word for Arctic Circle, theNapapijri®brand offers premium-priced performance skiwear and outdoor-inspired casual outerwear, sportswear and
accessories for men, women and children. TheNapapijri®brand is expanding across Europe and enjoys
strong consumer awareness in Italy, where it was created, as well as Germany and France. Products are sold on a wholesale basis primarily to European specialty shops, and through VF-operated and independently-operated stores in several countries in
Europe.

TheReef®brand of surf-inspired products includes sandals, shoes, swimwear and other casual apparel and accessories for men, women and children. Products are marketed
primarily to surf shops, sporting goods and specialty chains, and department stores in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. In recent years, we have expanded theReef®brand’s presence by acquiring rights previously held by independent distributors to marketReef®products in Europe, Canada and the Caribbean.

Thelucy®brand is an authentic women’s activewear
brand designed for style, performance and fit that can be worn by today’s active woman from workout to weekend.lucy®apparel is sold in over 50lucy®branded stores across the United States and online at www.lucy.com.

We expect continued long-term growth in our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition as we focus on product innovation, extend our brands into new product categories, open additional stores, expand
geographically, and acquire additional lifestyle brands.

Jeanswear Coalition

Our Jeanswear Coalition markets jeanswear and related casual products in the United States and in many international
markets. The largest of these brands, theLee®andWrangler®brands, have long-standing traditions as authentic American jeans brands as they were established in 1889 and
1947, respectively, and have strong market positions.Lee®andWrangler®products are sold in nearly every developed country through a combination of wholesale accounts, VF-operated and
partnership stores and online through our brands’ websites. Products also include shorts, casual pants, knit and woven tops and outerwear, which are designed to complement the jeanswear products and extend our brands. We also market jeanswear
and related casual products under theLee Casuals®andTimber Creek by Wrangler®brands.

In domestic markets,Lee®branded products are sold
primarily through mid-tier department stores and specialty stores.Wrangler®westernwear is marketed
primarily through western specialty stores. TheWrangler®,Rustler®andRiders®by Lee®brands are
marketed to mass merchant and regional discount stores. Based on available data, we believe our key brands have been gaining market share despite significant competitive activity in all channels where they are distributed. Including all of our
jeanswear brands, we believe VF has the largest unit market share of jeans in the United States and is one of the largest marketers of jeans in the world.

Our advanced vendor-managed inventory and retail floor space management programs with many of our major retailer customers give us a competitive advantage in our domestic jeanswear business. We receive
point-of-sale information from these customers on a daily or weekly basis, at an individual store and style-size-color stockkeeping unit (“SKU”) level. We then ship products based on that customer data to ensure their selling floors are
appropriately stocked with products that match their shoppers’ needs. Our systems capabilities allow us to analyze our retail customers’ sales, demographic and geographic data to develop product assortment recommendations that maximize the
productivity of their jeanswear selling space and optimize their inventory investment.

Jeanswear in most international
markets is more fashion-oriented and has a higher selling price than similar products in the United States. The international jeans market is also more fragmented than the United States market, with competitors ranging from global brands to a number
of smaller brands marketed in a specific country or region.






VF’s largest international jeanswear businesses are located in
Western Europe and Asia.Lee®andWrangler®jeanswear products are sold through department stores and specialty stores where we employ similar retail floor space management programs to those described
above. We also marketLee®andWrangler®products to mass market, department and specialty stores in Canada and Mexico, as well as to department stores and specialty stores in Asia and South America. In
many international markets, we are expanding our reach through VF-operated stores, which are an important vehicle for presenting our brands’ image and marketing message directly to consumers. We are continuing to expand our jeanswear brands in
emerging markets, and have experienced significant growth in China and India. In foreign markets where VF does not have owned operations,Lee®andWrangler®products are marketed through distributors, agents and licensees, some of whom operate over 700 independently operated single brand or multibrand stores primarily in Eastern Europe and Asia.

In the United States, we believe our Jeanswear Coalition is growing its jeans market share in the mass market, western specialty, and
national chain channels of distribution through superior consumer insight and marketing strategies and continuous product innovation. Internationally, growth will be driven by expansion of our existing businesses in Asia where we have reported a
compounded annual revenue growth rate in excess of 25% over the last three years, with India growing at a rate of 45% in 2011.

Imagewear
Coalition

Our Imagewear Coalition consists of the Image (occupational apparel and uniforms) and Licensed Sports (owned and
licensed high profile athletic apparel) businesses. Each business represents approximately one-half of coalition revenues.

The Image business provides uniforms and career occupational apparel for workers in North America and internationally, under theRed Kap®brand (a premium workwear brand with more than 75 years of history), theBulwark®brand (flame resistant and protective apparel primarily for the petrochemical, utility and mining industries), theHorace Small®brand (apparel for law enforcement and public safety personnel) and theChef Designs™ brand (apparel
for restaurant and food service staff). Products include work pants, slacks, work shirts, overalls, jackets, aprons and smocks. Image revenues are significantly affected by the overall level of U.S. industrial and service employment, which improved
slightly in 2011. Approximately 80% of our Image revenues are from industrial laundries, resellers and distributors that in turn supply customized workwear to employers for production, service and white-collar personnel. Since industrial laundries
and uniform distributors maintain minimal inventories of work clothes, VF’s ability to offer rapid delivery of products in a broad range of sizes is an important advantage in this market. Our commitment to customer service, supported by an
automated central distribution center with several satellite locations, enables customer orders to be filled within 24 to 48 hours of receipt and has helped theRed Kap®andBulwark®brands obtain a significant share of uniform apparel sold to laundries, resellers and other distributors.

Our Image
business also develops and manages uniform programs through custom-designed websites for major business customers (e.g., FedEx Corporation, AT&T, Air Canada, Continental Airlines, American Airlines) and governmental organizations (e.g., U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, Fire Department of New York City, Transportation Security Administration, National Park Service, New York City Transit Authority). These websites provide the employees of these customers the convenience of
shopping for their work and career apparel via the internet. We believe this business is the nation’s largest supplier of nonmilitary apparel to the U.S. government.

In the Licensed Sports business, we design and market sports apparel and fanwear under licenses granted by the major
sports leagues, individual athletes and related organizations, including Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, MLB Players Association, and selected major colleges and
universities. Under license from Major League Baseball,Majestic®brand uniforms are worn exclusively
on-field by all 30 major league teams.Majestic®brand adult and youth-size authentic, replica jersey and
fanwear are sold through sporting goods and athletic specialty stores, department






stores and major league stadiums. Adult and youth sports apparel products marketed under other licensed labels are distributed through department, mass market, sporting goods and athletic
specialty stores. Our quick response capabilities allow us to deliver products to retailers within hours following major sporting events such as the Super Bowl, the World Series, and conference or division playoff championships. In addition, the
Licensed Sports division is a major supplier of licensedHarley-Davidson®apparel to Harley-Davidson
dealerships.

The opportunities to grow our Imagewear Coalition revenues include (i) extension of its
product and service capabilities to new industrial and service apparel distribution channels, markets, and geographies, (ii) growth of itsMajestic®brand for Major League Baseball and National Football League, (iii) market share gains in key licensed categories such as women’s sports apparel,
(iv) expansion of our college and university fanwear program, and (v) extension of VF’s floor space management and quick response retail replenishment capabilities to more retail doors, placing the right product assortments on the
sales floor in each geographic market.

Sportswear Coalition

TheNautica®brand is the primary lifestyle brand in the Sportswear Coalition.Nautica®men’s sportswear is marketed through department stores, specialty stores, VF-operated outlet stores in premium and better outlet centers and at
www.nautica.com. We believe theNautica®brand is the number two men’s sportswear collection brand
in department stores. OtherNautica®product lines include men’s outerwear, underwear and swimwear
and men’s and women’s sleepwear.Nautica®women’s sportswear is marketed in the United
States at mostNautica®outlet stores and at www.nautica.com.

The Sportswear Coalition operates over 80Nautica®outlet stores in premium and better outlet centers across the United States. These stores carryNautica®merchandise for men, women, boys, girls and infants. The products sold in the outlet stores are different from theNautica®styles sold to department and specialty store wholesale customers, although the design inspiration and color
palette are consistent across both lines. These outlet stores also carryNautica®merchandise from
licensees to complete their product assortment. The product assortment offered at www.nautica.com includes products from both the wholesale and retail lines as well as licensed merchandise. In addition, independent licensees operate over 150Nautica®brand stores across the world. About 90% of these are full price stores and 10% are outlet
stores with the majority of these stores in Asia, North and South America and the Middle East.

TheNautica®brand is licensed to independent parties in the United States for apparel categories not
produced by VF (e.g., tailored clothing, dress shirts, neckwear, women’s swimwear and outerwear, children’s clothing) and for nonapparel categories (e.g., accessories, fragrances, watches, eyewear, footwear, luggage, bed and bath products,
furniture).Nautica®products are licensed for sale in over 45 countries outside the United States. Our
licensees’ annual wholesale sales ofNautica®licensed products are approximately $450 million.

The Sportswear Coalition also includes theKipling®business in North America whose products includeKipling®brand handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and accessories.Kipling®products are sold in the United States through department, specialty and luggage stores, VF-operated stores and www.kipling.com and in Canada through specialty
and department stores. In the United States, theKipling®brand has seen significant growth in 2011,
partly driven by increased distribution and four new VF-operated stores.

We believe there is the
potential to improveNautica®brand revenue and profit performance through the growth of core Nautica
sportswear products, increased pricing, improved product assortments and an enhanced customer experience atNautica®outlet stores, growth in the brand’s online business, and expansion of the licensed
business, both domestically and internationally. There is also the potential for expanding theKipling®brand through our handbag and accessories relationship with Macy’s, Inc., the travel-related retail distribution channel, e-commerce, and the opportunity to open additional VF-operated stores.






Contemporary Brands Coalition

Our Contemporary Brands Coalition is focused on premium upscale lifestyle brands. The coalition is comprised of the7 For All Mankind®,John Varvatos®,Splendid®andElla Moss®brands.

7 For All Mankind®is a Los Angeles-based brand of premium denim jeans and related products for women and men. While the core business remains focused on denim, the collection also
includes sportswear products, such as knit and woven tops, sweaters, jackets and accessories. Products are noted for their fit and for innovation in design, fabric and finish.7 For All Mankind®is a leading premium jeans brand in the United States, with the premium segment defined as jeans retailing for $100 or more. Retail price points for the
brand’s core jeans range from $155 to $245 for basics, with higher price points for more fashion-forward products. With more than 60% of its sales in the United States, the brand is marketed through premium department stores, such as
Bloomingdale’s, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, Saks, and through specialty stores.7 For All Mankind®has
over 40 VF-operated stores in the United States. International sales are through department stores, such as Harrods in London, specialty stores, as well as VF-operated stores. We believe this brand can grow its revenues through new stores,
e-commerce, additional sportswear product offerings, licensing and increasing productivity in the wholesale channel. We are also focusing on international growth opportunities, primarily through VF-operated and partnership stores and further
geographic expansion in Europe and Asia.

TheJohn Varvatos®brand is a luxury collection for men, including tailored clothing, sportswear, footwear and accessories. TheJohn Varvatos * USA®line of tailored clothing, sportswear, footwear and accessories is designed to
appeal to a younger consumer at more accessible price points. Products are sold primarily in the United States through upscale department and specialty stores, VF-operatedJohn Varvatos®retail locations and online at www.johnvarvatos.com. This business is 80% owned by VF, with the balance owned by Mr. Varvatos.

TheSplendid®brand offers women’s, men’s and children’s premium tops and casual apparel, and theElla Moss®brand offers women’s and girl’s premium sportswear. These brands, noted for their soft wearable
fabrics and vibrant colors, are marketed to upscale department and specialty stores primarily in the United States. These brands are also sold through nine VF-operatedSplendid®stores and oneElla
Moss®store, along with shop-in-shops in some of our major retail accounts.

Direct-To-Consumer Operations

VF-operated stores are part of our long-term strategy to drive revenue growth and increase profitability. Our full price stores allow us to showcase a brand’s full line of current season products,
with fixtures and imagery that support the brand’s positioning. These stores provide high visibility for our brands and products and enable us to stay close to the needs and preferences of our consumers. The proper presentation of products in
our stores, particularly in our showcase stores, also helps to increase consumer purchases of VF products sold through our wholesale customers. VF-operated full price stores generally provide gross margins and operating margins that are higher than
VF averages and a return on investment well above VF averages. In addition, VF operates outlet stores in both premium outlet malls and more traditional value-based locations. These outlet stores serve an important role in our overall inventory
management and profitability by allowing VF to sell a significant portion of excess, discontinued and out-of-season products at better prices than are otherwise available from outside parties, while maintaining the integrity of our brands.

Our growing global retail operations include 1,053 stores at the end of 2011. Of that total, there are
976 single brand stores (i.e., primarily one brand’s product offerings in each store) that sellThe North
Face®,Timberland®, Vans®,Nautica®,7 For All Mankind®,lucy®,Splendid®,Lee®,Wrangler®,Napapijri®, John Varvatos®, Kipling®,andEastpak®. We also operate 77 VF Outlet stores in the United States that sell a broad selection of excess quantities of
VF-branded products, as well as women’s intimate apparel, childrenswear, other apparel and accessories. Approximately 70% of VF-operated stores offer products at full price, and the remainder are outlet locations. Approximately 65% of our
stores are located in the United States, with the remaining stores located in Europe, Latin America and Asia.






E-commerce is our fastest growing direct-to-consumer channel and
represents approximately 10% of our direct-to-consumer business. We currently marketThe North Face®,Timberland®, SmartWool®, Vans®,Lee®,Wrangler®,7 For All
Mankind®,lucy®,Nautica®,Kipling®,Splendid®,Ella Moss®,Reef®andJohn Varvatos®products online in the United States, plusThe North Face®and other brands across Europe. We will continue to expand our e-commerce initiatives through rollout of brand sites in Europe and Asia, and enhancing each
brand’s site to deliver a superior experience with each transaction.

Total retail store and
e-commerce revenues accounted for 19% of VF’s consolidated Total Revenues in 2011 and 18% in 2010. We expect our direct-to-consumer business to continue to grow at a faster pace than VF’s overall growth rate as we continue opening stores
and expanding our e-commerce presence. During 2011, we opened 121 stores and acquired 188Timberland®stores. We are planning to open approximately 130 new retail locations in 2012. For 2012, capital investments in retail stores of approximately $86 million will be concentrated where we see higher retail growth potential —Vans®,The North Face®,7 For All Mankind®and international.

In addition, our licensees, distributors and other independent parties own and
operate over 1.900 partnership stores which are primarily monobrand stores selling VF-branded products. These stores — most of which are in Eastern Europe and Asia — are focused onThe North Face®,Timberland®,Kipling®,Nautica®,Lee®andWrangler®brands.

Licensing Arrangements

As part of our business strategy of expanding market penetration of VF-owned brands, we may enter into licensing agreements for specific apparel and complementary product categories if such arrangements
with independent parties can provide more effective manufacturing, distribution and marketing of such products than could be achieved internally. We provide support to these business partners and ensure the integrity of our brand names by taking an
active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of licensed products.

Licensing arrangements relate to a broad range of VF brands. License agreements are for fixed terms of generally
three to five years, with conditional renewal options. Each licensee pays royalties to VF based on its sales of licensed products, with most agreements providing for a minimum royalty requirement. Royalties generally range from 5% to 8% of the
licensing partners’ net licensed products sales. Gross Royalty Income was $94.0 million in 2011, primarily from theNautica®,Timberland®, Vans®,The North Face®,John Varvatos®,Lee®andWrangler®brands. In addition, licensees of our brands are generally required to spend from 1% to 5% of
their net licensed product sales to advertise VF’s products. In some cases, these advertising amounts are remitted to VF for advertising on behalf of the licensees.

VF has also entered into license agreements to use trademarks owned by third parties. We market apparel under licenses granted by Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the National
Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc., major colleges and universities, and individual athletes and related organizations, most of which contain minimum annual royalty and advertising requirements.

Manufacturing, Sourcing and Distribution

Product design, fit, fabric, finish and quality are important in all of our businesses. These functions are performed by employees located in either our global supply chain organization or our branded
business units across the globe.

VF’s centralized global supply chain organization sources product and is responsible
for delivering products to our customers. VF is highly skilled in managing the complexities associated with our global supply chain. On an annual basis, VF sources or produces over 400 million units spread across 36 brands. VF operates






29 manufacturing facilities and typically utilizes about 2,100 contractor manufacturing facilities in over 60 countries. We operate approximately 30 distribution centers and 1,053 retail
stores. Managing this complexity is made possible by the use of sophisticated information systems technologies — with sophisticated systems for product development, forecasting, order management and warehouse management, attached to our core
enterprise resource management platforms.

In 2011, 31% of our units were manufactured in VF-owned facilities and 69% were
obtained from independent contractors, primarily in Asia. Products manufactured in VF facilities generally have a lower cost and shorter lead times than contracted production. Products obtained from contractors in the Western Hemisphere generally
have a higher cost than products obtained from contractors in Asia. But contracting in the Western Hemisphere gives us greater flexibility, shorter lead times and allows for lower inventory levels. This combination of VF-owned and contracted
production, along with different geographic regions and cost structures, provides a well-balanced approach to product sourcing. We will continue to manage our supply chain from a global perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global
production environment.

VF operates manufacturing facilities located in Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean,
Europe and the Middle East. A significant percentage of denim bottoms and occupational apparel are manufactured in these plants, as well as a smaller percentage of annual footwear requirements. For these owned production facilities, we purchase raw
materials from numerous domestic and international suppliers to meet our production needs. Raw materials include products made from cotton, leather, rubber, wool, synthetics and blends of cotton and synthetic yarn, as well as thread and trim
(product identification, buttons, zippers, snaps, eyelets and laces). In some instances, we contract the sewing of VF-owned raw materials into finished product with independent contractors. Manufacturing in the United States includes all Major
League Baseball uniforms, along with screen printing and embroidery of jerseys, T-shirts and fleece products. Fixed price commitments for fabric and certain supplies are generally set on a quarterly basis for the next quarter’s purchases. No
single supplier represents more than 5% of our total cost of sales.

Independent contractors generally own the raw materials
and ship finished ready-for-sale products to VF. These contractors are engaged through VF sourcing hubs in Hong Kong (with satellite offices across Asia) and Panama. These hubs are responsible for coordinating the manufacturing and procurement of
product, supplier management, product quality assurance, transportation and shipping functions in the Eastern and Western Hemispheres, respectively. Substantially all products in the Outdoor & Action Sports and Sportswear Coalitions, as
well as a portion of products for our Jeanswear and Imagewear Coalitions, are obtained through these sourcing hubs. For most products in our Contemporary Brands Coalition, we contract the sewing and finishing of VF-owned raw materials through a
network of independent contractors based in the United States.

Management continually monitors political risks and
developments related to duties, tariffs and quotas. We limit VF’s sourcing exposure through, among other measures, (i) extensive geographic diversification with a mix of VF-operated and contracted production, (ii) shifts of production
among countries and contractors, (iii) sourcing production to merchandise categories where product is readily available and (iv) sourcing from countries with tariff preference and free trade agreements. VF does not directly or indirectly
source products from suppliers in countries identified by the State Department as state sponsors of terrorism and subject to U.S. economic sanctions and export controls.

All VF-owned production facilities throughout the world, as well as all independent contractor facilities that manufacture VF-branded products, must comply with VF’s Global Compliance Principles.
These principles, established in 1997 and consistent with international labor standards, are a set of strict standards covering legal and ethical business practices, workers’ ages, work hours, health and safety conditions, environmental
standards, and compliance with local laws and regulations. In addition, our owned factories must also undergo certification by the independent, nonprofit organization, Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (“WRAP”), which promotes
global ethics in manufacturing. VF, through its contractor monitoring program, audits the activities of the independent businesses and contractors that produce VF-branded goods at locations across the globe. Each of






the over 2,100 independent contractor facilities, including those serving our independent licensees, must be precertified before producing any VF products. This precertification includes passing
a factory inspection and signing a VF Terms of Engagement agreement. We maintain an ongoing audit program to ensure compliance with these requirements by using dedicated internal staff and externally contracted firms. Additional information about
VF’s Code of Business Conduct, Global Compliance Principles, Terms of Engagement, Factory Compliance Guidelines, Factory Audit Procedure and Environmental Compliance Guidelines, along with a Global Compliance Report, is available on the VF
website at www.vfc.com.

Despite higher demand for raw materials and contracted production, VF did not experience difficulty
in filling its raw material and contracting production needs during 2011 and does not anticipate any difficulty in 2012. We believe that we will be able to remain cost competitive in 2012 due to our scale and significance to our suppliers. Further,
VF believes it will be able to offset the majority of higher product costs through: (i) increases in the prices of its products; (ii) the continuing shift in the mix of its business to higher margin brands, geographies and channels of
distribution; and (iii) cost reduction opportunities. The loss of any one supplier or contractor would not have a significant adverse effect on our business.

Product is shipped from our independent suppliers and VF-operated manufacturing facilities to distribution centers in the United States and international locations. In limited instances, product is
shipped directly to our customers. Product is inspected, stocked and stored in our distribution centers until needed for packing and shipping to our wholesale customers or our stores. Most distribution centers are operated by VF, and some support
more than one brand. Our distribution centers use computer-controlled inventory management technology for efficient tracking, moving and shipping of products. A portion of our distribution needs are met by contract distribution centers.

Seasonality

VF’s
operating results vary from quarter-to-quarter throughout the year due to the differing sales patterns of our individual businesses. On a quarterly basis and excluding the effect of acquisitions, consolidated Total Revenues for 2011 ranged from a
low of 21% of full year revenues in the second quarter to a high of 30% in the third quarter, while consolidated Operating Income ranged from a low of 16% in the second quarter to a high of 35% in the third quarter. This variation results primarily
from the seasonal influences on revenues of our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition, where 19% of the Coalition’s revenues occurred in the second quarter and 33% in the third quarter of 2011. With changes in our mix of business and
growth of our retail operations, historical quarterly revenue and profit trends may not be indicative of future trends. We expect the portion of annual revenues and profits occurring in the second half of the year to continue to increase.

Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working capital increases during the first half of the year as
inventory builds to support peak shipping periods and then decreases during the second half of the year as those inventories are sold and accounts receivable are collected. Cash provided by operating activities is substantially higher in the second
half of the year due to higher net income during that period and reduced working capital requirements, particularly during the fourth quarter.

Advertising and Customer Support

During 2011, our advertising and promotion spending was $540 million, representing 5.7% of Net Sales. We advertise in consumer and trade publications, on national and local radio, on television and on the
internet. We also participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with major retailers in print media, radio and television. We sponsor a number of athletes and personalities who promote our products, as well as sporting, musical and
special events. We employ marketing sciences to optimize the impact of advertising and promotional spending and to identify the types of spending that provide the greatest return on our marketing investments.






We provide point-of-sale fixtures and signage to our wholesale customers to enhance the
presentation and brand image of our products. We utilize shop-in-shops, which are separate sales areas dedicated to a specific VF brand within our customers’ stores, to help differentiate and enhance the presentation of our products. We
participate in concession arrangements with department store customers in China and other international markets. In a typical concession arrangement, the department store provides a dedicated sales area, while VF owns and bears the risk of inventory
ownership.

We participate in incentive programs with our retailer customers, including discounts, allowances and cooperative
advertising funds. We also offer sales incentive programs directly to consumers in the form of rebate and coupon offers.

In addition to sponsorships and activities that directly benefit our products and brands, VF and its associates actively support our communities and various charities. For example, ourThe North Face®brand has committed to programs that encourage and enable outdoor participation, such as Planet Explore
(www.planetexplore.com), the Never Stop Exploring Award, and the Explore Your Parks program. TheTimberland®brand has a heritage of volunteerism, including the Path of Service™ program that offers
full-time employees up to 40 hours of paid time off a year to serve their local communities. Timberland also sponsors two annual global service events, Earth Day in the spring and Serv-a-palooza in the fall, when employees provide assistance to
local communities through various volunteer efforts. TheNautica®brand supports Oceana, a not-for-profit
organization focused on ocean conservation. In addition, 2011 marked the sixteenth year of support forLee National Denim
Day®, one of the country’s largest single-day fund-raisers for breast cancer that has raised over $86
million to fight breast cancer since its inception. VF also supports company-wide sustainability efforts, and recognizes the “VF 100” as a means of honoring the 100 VF associates worldwide having the highest number of volunteer service
hours during the year.

Other Matters

Competitive Factors

Our business depends on our ability to
stimulate consumer demand for VF’s brands and products. VF is well-positioned to compete in the apparel industry by developing high quality innovative products at competitive prices that meet consumer needs, providing high service levels,
ensuring the right products are on the retail sales floor to meet consumer demand, and investing significant amounts behind existing brands. We continually strive to improve in each of these areas. Many of VF’s brands have long histories and
enjoy high recognition within their respective consumer segments.

Trademarks

Trademarks, patents and domain names, as well as related logos, designs and graphics, provide substantial value in the marketing of
VF’s products and are important to our continued success. We have registered this intellectual property in the United States and in other countries where our products are manufactured and/or sold. We vigorously monitor and enforce VF’s
intellectual property against counterfeiting, infringement and violations of other rights where and to the extent legal, feasible and appropriate. In addition, we grant licenses to other parties to manufacture and sell products utilizing our
intellectual property in product categories and geographic areas in which VF does not operate.

Customers

VF products are primarily sold through our sales force and independent sales agents and distributors. VF’s
customers are specialty stores, department stores, national chains and mass merchants in the United States and in international markets. Of our Total Revenues in 2011, 34% are in international markets, the majority of which are in Europe, and 19%
are direct-to-consumer through VF-operated stores and e-commerce sites (including stores and internet sites in international markets).






Sales to VF’s ten largest customers, all of which are retailers based in the United
States, amounted to 23% of Total Revenues in 2011, 26% in 2010 and 27% in 2009. These larger customers included (in alphabetical order) Kohl’s Corporation, Macy’s, Inc., J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Sears Holdings Corporation, Target
Corporation and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Sales to the five largest customers amounted to approximately 18% of Total Revenues in 2011, and 21% of Total Revenues in each of 2010 and 2009. Sales to VF’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.,
totaled 9% of Total Revenues in 2011, 10% in 2010 and 11% in 2009, the majority of which were in the Jeanswear coalition.

Employees

VF employed approximately 58,000 men and women at the end of 2011, of which approximately 23,300 were located in the United States. Approximately 640 employees in the United States are covered by
collective bargaining agreements. In international markets, a significant percentage of employees are covered by trade-sponsored or governmental bargaining arrangements. Employee relations are considered to be good.

Backlog

The dollar amount of VF’s order backlog as of any date is not meaningful, may not be indicative of actual future shipments and, accordingly, is not material for an understanding of the business of VF
taken as a whole.

Executive Officers of VF

The following are the executive officers of VF Corporation as of February 28, 2012. The executive officers are generally elected annually and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. There is
no family relationship among any of the VF Corporation executive officers.



Period ServedNamePositionAgeIn Such Office(s)Eric C. WisemanChairman of the BoardChief
Executive OfficerPresidentDirector56August 2008 to date January 2008 to date March 2006 to date October 2006 to dateRobert K. ShearerSenior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer60June 2005 to dateBradley W. BattenVice President — Controller andChief Accounting Officer56October 2004 to dateCandace S. CummingsVice President — Administrationand General Counsel &Secretary64March 1996 to dateOctober 1997 to dateMichael T. GannawayVice President — VF Direct/Customer Teams60January 2008 to dateKarl Heinz SalzburgerVice President; President — VFInternational54January 2009 to dateSteve RendleVice President; GroupPresident — Outdoor & Action Sports Americas52January 2011 to dateScott BaxterVice President; GroupPresident — Jeanswear Americas&
Imagewear47January 2011 to date

Mr. Wisemanwas named President and Chief Operating Officer of VF in March 2006, Director of
VF in October 2006, Chief Executive Officer in January 2008 and Chairman of the Board in August 2008. He has held a progression of leadership roles within and across VF’s coalitions since 1995.






Mr. Shearerjoined VF in 1986 as Assistant Controller and was elected Controller
in 1989 and Vice President — Controller in 1994. He was elected Vice President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer in 1998 and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in June 2005.

Mr. Battenrejoined VF in September 2004 and was named as Vice President — Controller in October 2004. Mr. Batten
had previously served as Vice President & Chief Financial Officer of VF’s former intimate apparel business from 1998 to July 2000.

Mrs. Cummingsjoined VF as Vice President — General Counsel in 1995 and became Vice President — Administration and General Counsel in 1996 and Secretary in 1997.

Mr. Gannawayjoined VF in July 2004 as Vice President — Customer Management. In January 2008, his responsibilities were
broadened to Vice President — VF Direct/Customer Teams.

Mr. Salzburgerjoined The North Face in 1997 as
Chief Executive Officer of European operations and was appointed President of The North Face in 1999. Following the VF acquisition of The North Face in 2000, Mr. Salzburger served as President of VF’s international outdoor businesses from
2001 until his appointment as President of VF’s European, Middle East, Africa and Asian operations in September 2006. In January 2009, Mr. Salzburger was appointed Vice President of VF and President — VF International.

Mr. Rendlejoined The North Face in 1999 and shortly afterward was promoted to Vice President of Sales. From 2004 to 2009, he
served as President of The North Face. Prior to being appointed to his current role in January 2011, he served as President of VF’s Outdoor Americas businesses.

Mr. Baxterjoined VF Imagewear, Inc. in 2007 as President of the Licensed Sports Group. In 2008, he was named Coalition President for the Imagewear Coalition, comprised of both the Image and
the Licensed Sports group businesses.

Additional information is included under the caption “Election of Directors”
in VF’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 24, 2012 (“2012 Proxy Statement”) that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of our
fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration statements and other filings that VF has filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”), including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are available
free of charge from the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) and public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 and on VF’s website at www.vfc.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic
filing of the material with the SEC. Copies of these reports may also be obtained free of charge upon written request to the Secretary of VF Corporation, P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420. Information on the operation of the public reference room
can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The following corporate governance documents can be accessed on
VF’s website: VF’s Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee. Copies of these documents
also may be obtained by any shareholder free of charge upon written request to: Secretary of VF Corporation, P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420.

After VF’s 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, VF intends to file with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the certification regarding VF’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate
governance listing standards as required by NYSE Rule 303A.12. Last year, VF filed this certification with the NYSE on May 10, 2011.






