Item 1.Business.

V.F.
Corporation, organized in 1899, is a global leader in the design, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of branded lifestyle apparel, footwear and accessories. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “VF,” “we,”
“us” and “our” used herein refer to V.F. Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

VF will grow by
building leading lifestyle brands that excite consumers around the world. The company’s diverse portfolio of more than 30 brands reflects the company’s 115-year history of achievement and growth. These powerful brands and VF’s ability
to connect with a broad base of consumers, as diverse as the company’s portfolio, create an unparalleled opportunity for sustainable, long-term growth. VF’s approach to growth is focused on four fundamental drivers:



•Lead in innovation by increasing VF’s pipeline of compelling new products and technologies;



•Connect with consumers by creating consistent and compelling engagements;



•Serve consumers directly, reaching them across multiple channels — wherever and whenever they shop; and,



•Expand geographically, taking advantage of VF’s scale within every region and channel in which we operate.

VF is diversified across brands, product categories, channels of distribution, geographies and consumer
demographics. We own a broad portfolio of brands in the outerwear, footwear, denim, backpack, luggage, accessory, sportswear, occupational and performance apparel categories. Our largest brands areThe North Face®, Vans®,Timberland®,Wrangler®,Lee®andNautica®. Our products are marketed to consumers shopping in specialty stores,
upscale and traditional department stores, national chains, mass merchants and our own direct-to-consumer operations.

Our
direct-to-consumer business includes VF-operated stores, concession retail stores and e-commerce sites. Revenues from the direct-to-consumer business represented 26% of VF’s total 2014 revenues.

Many of our brands sell products in international markets through licensees, distributors and independently-operated partnership stores.
To provide diversified products across multiple channels of distribution in different geographic areas, we balance efficient and flexible owned manufacturing with sourcing of finished goods from independent contractors. We utilize state-of-the-art
technologies for inventory replenishment that enable us to effectively and efficiently get the right assortment of products that match consumer demand. In 2014, VF derived approximately 70% of its revenues from the Americas region, 20% from Europe
and 10% from its Asia Pacific business.

For both management and internal financial reporting purposes, VF is organized by
groupings of businesses called “coalitions”. The five coalitions are Outdoor & Action Sports, Jeanswear, Imagewear, Sportswear and Contemporary Brands. These coalitions are our reportable segments for financial reporting purposes.
Coalition management has the responsibility to build and operate their brands, with certain financial, administrative and systems support and disciplines provided by central functions within VF.






The following table summarizes VF’s primary owned and licensed brands by coalition:





CoalitionPrimary BrandsPrimary Products

Outdoor & Action SportsThe North Face®High performance outdoor apparel, footwear, equipment, accessories

Vans®Youth culture/action sports-inspired footwear, apparel, accessories

Timberland®Outdoor lifestyle footwear, apparel, accessories

Kipling®(outside North
America)Handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes, accessories

Napapijri®Premium outdoor apparel, footwear, accessories

Jansport®Backpacks, luggage, apparel

Reef®Surfing-inspired footwear, apparel, accessories

Smartwool®Performance-based merino wool socks, apparel, accessories

Eastpak®Backpacks, luggage

lucy®Women’s activewear

Eagle Creek®Luggage, backpacks, travel accessories

JeanswearWrangler®Denim, casual apparel, footwear, accessories

Lee®Denim, casual apparel

Lee Casuals®Denim, casual apparel

Riders by Lee®Denim, casual apparel

Rustler®Denim, casual apparel

Timber Creek by Wrangler®Denim, casual apparel

Rock & Republic®Denim, casual apparel, footwear

ImagewearRed Kap®Occupational apparel

Bulwark®Protective occupational apparel

Horace Small®Occupational apparel

Majestic®Athletic apparel, fanwear

MLB®(licensed)Licensed athletic apparel

NFL®(licensed)Licensed athletic apparel

Harley-Davidson®(licensed)Licensed apparel

SportswearNautica®Sportswear apparel, luggage, accessories

Kipling®(within North
America)Handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes, accessories

Contemporary Brands7 For All Mankind®Premium denim, apparel, footwear, accessories

Splendid®Premium lifestyle apparel, footwear, accessories

Ella Moss®Premium lifestyle apparel, footwear, accessories

Financial information regarding VF’s coalitions is included in Note Q to the consolidated financial
statements, which are included at Item 8 of this report.

Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition

Our Outdoor & Action Sports coalition, VF’s largest and fastest growing business, is a group of authentic outdoor and
activity-based lifestyle brands. Product offerings include performance-based apparel, sportswear, footwear, equipment, backpacks, luggage and accessories.

The North Face®is the largest brand in our
Outdoor & Action Sports coalition and features performance-based apparel, outerwear, sportswear, and footwear for men, women and children. Its equipment line includes






tents, sleeping bags, backpacks and accessories. Many ofThe North Face®products are designed for extreme winter sport activities, such as high altitude mountaineering, skiing, snowboarding, and ice and rock climbing.The North
Face®products are marketed globally, primarily through specialty outdoor and premium sporting goods
stores, over 150 VF-operated stores, more than 400 independently-operated partnership stores, and online at www.thenorthface.com.

TheVans®brand offers performance and casual footwear and
apparel targeting younger consumers that sit at the center of action sports, art, music and street fashion. Products are available globally through chain stores, skate, surf and specialty stores, over 250 independently-operated partnership stores,
more than 450 VF-owned retail stores, and online at www.vans.com.

Timberland®is an authentic New England brand offering outdoor, adventure-inspired lifestyle footwear, apparel and
accessories that combine performance benefits and versatile styling for men, women and children. We
sellTimberland®products globally through chain, department and specialty stores, through
independent distributors and licensees, over 200 VF-operated stores and over 900 independently-operated partnership stores. We also sell our products online at www.timberland.com.

TheKipling®brand’s fashionable and colorful handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and accessories are both practical and durable. Products are sold in Europe, Asia and South
America through specialty and department stores, over 270 independently-operated partnership locations as well as 50 VF-operated retail stores and at www.kipling.com. TheKipling®brand’s North American business is included in the Sportswear coalition.

TheNapapijri®brand offers premium-priced performance outdoor-inspired casual outerwear, sportswear and accessories for men, women and children in Europe and Asia. Products
are sold to specialty shops through over 30 VF-operated stores, over 170 independently-operated partnership locations, and online at www.napapijri.com.

JanSport®backpacks, duffel bags, luggage, fleece and
accessories are sold in North America through department, office supply and chain stores, as well as sports specialty stores and college bookstores.JanSport®products are also sold online at www.jansport.com.

TheReef®brand of surf-inspired products includes
sandals, shoes, swimwear, casual apparel and accessories for men, women and children. Products are sold primarily in North America, Europe and South America to surf shops, sporting goods and specialty chains, department stores and global
distributors. Products are also sold online at www.reef.com.

TheSmartWool®brand offers active outdoor consumers a premium, technical layering system of merino wool socks, apparel and
accessories that are designed to work together in fit, form and function.SmartWool®products are
sold through premium outdoor and specialty retailers primarily in the U.S. and Europe, and online at www.smartwool.com.

In Europe,Eastpak®backpacks, travel bags and
luggage are sold primarily through department and specialty stores and online at www.eastpak.com.Eastpak®products are also marketed throughout Asia by licensees and distributors.

Thelucy®brand of activewear is designed for style, performance and fit that can be worn by today’s woman from workout to weekend.lucy®apparel is sold in the U.S. through more than 60 VF-operatedlucy®brand stores, on a wholesale basis to U.S. specialty and premium sporting goods retailers, and online at
www.lucy.com.

Eagle Creek®adventure travel gear products include luggage, backpacks and accessories sold through specialty luggage, outdoor and department stores primarily in North
America and Europe, and online at www.eaglecreek.com.






We expect continued long-term growth in our Outdoor & Action Sports coalition as we
focus on product innovation, extend our brands into new product categories, open additional stores, expand geographically and acquire additional lifestyle brands.

Jeanswear Coalition

Our Jeanswear coalition markets
denim and related casual apparel products in the U.S. and in many international markets. The largest of these brands, theLee®andWrangler®brands, have long-standing traditions as American jeans brands as they were established in 1889 and 1947, respectively.

Wrangler®brand denim, apparel, accessories and footwear are offered in the U.S. through wholesale accounts, including mass merchants and mid-tier department stores,
VF-operated stores and online at www.wrangler.com.Wrangler®westernwear is distributed primarily through
western specialty stores, as well as various online retail sites.Lee®brand products are sold in
the U.S., primarily through mid-tier department stores and specialty stores, and online at www.lee.com. TheRustler®andRiders®by Lee®brands are
marketed to mass merchant and regional discount stores. Additionally, we own theRock &
Republic®brand, and have an exclusive wholesale distribution and licensing arrangement with Kohl’s
Corporation that covers allRock & Republic®brand apparel, accessories, and other
merchandise in the U.S. and Canada.

Wrangler®andLee®products outside of the U.S. have a higher fashion consideration and, as a result, higher
selling prices. The international jeans market is much more fragmented than the U.S. market, with competitors ranging from global brands to a number of smaller brands marketed in a specific country or region.

VF’s largest international jeanswear businesses are located in Europe and Asia, whereWrangler®andLee®products are
sold through department, specialty and concession retail stores. We also marketWrangler®andLee®products to mass merchant, department and specialty stores in Canada and Mexico, as well as to department and specialty stores in South America. In key international
markets, we are expanding our reach through VF-operated stores, which are an important vehicle for presenting our brands’ image and marketing message directly to consumers. We currently have more than 75 VF-operated stores primarily located in
Europe, South America, and Asia, and are continuing to expand our brands in emerging markets. In international markets where VF does not have retail operations,Wrangler®andLee®products are marketed through distributors, agents, licensees and over 850 single brand or
multi-brand partnership stores.

Our world-class supply chain, including owned manufacturing facilities along with advanced
vendor-managed inventory and retail floor space management programs with many of our major retailer customers, gives us a competitive advantage in our U.S. jeanswear business. We receive point-of-sale information from these customers on a daily or
weekly basis, at an individual store and style-size-color stock keeping unit level. We then ship products based on that customer data to ensure their selling floors are appropriately stocked with products that match their shoppers’ needs. Our
system capabilities allow us to analyze our retail customers’ sales, demographic and geographic data to develop product assortment recommendations that maximize the productivity of their jeanswear selling space and optimize their inventory
investment.

We intend to drive growth through superior consumer insight and marketing strategies and continuous product
innovation. Growth in the U.S. will be focused in the mass market and western specialty businesses, and international growth will be driven by expansion of our existing businesses in Asia, Latin America and key European markets.

Imagewear Coalition

Our
Imagewear coalition consists of the Image business (occupational workwear apparel and uniforms) and the Licensed Sports Group (“LSG”) business (owned and licensed athletic apparel). The Image and LSG businesses represent approximately 56%
and 44%, respectively, of total coalition revenues.






The Image business provides uniforms and career occupational apparel
for workers in North America and internationally, under theRed Kap®brand (premium workwear),
theBulwark®brand (flame resistant and protective apparel primarily for the petrochemical, utility and mining industries) and theHorace Small®brand (apparel for law enforcement and public safety personnel). Products include a wide range of functionally
designed shirts, pants, coveralls and outerwear. Image revenues are significantly correlated with the overall level of employment in the U.S.

Approximately 70% of Image revenues are from industrial laundries, resellers and distributors that in turn supply customized workwear to employers for production, service and white-collar personnel. Since
industrial laundries and distributors maintain minimal inventories of work clothes, VF’s ability to offer rapid delivery of products in a broad range of sizes is an important advantage in this market. Our commitment to customer service,
supported by an automated central distribution center with several satellite locations, enables customer orders to be filled within 24 hours of receipt. As a result, theRed Kap®andBulwark®brands
have a strong presence in the reseller distributor market and are growing in the workwear retail market.

The Image business
also develops and manages uniform programs through custom-designed websites for major business customers and governmental organizations. These websites provide the employees of our customers with the convenience of shopping for their work and career
apparel via the Internet.

In our LSG business, we design and market sports apparel and fanwear under
licenses granted by major sports leagues, individual athletes and related organizations, including Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the Major League Baseball Players Association, the National Basketball Association, the National
Hockey League, the Nippon Professional Baseball League and selected major colleges and universities. In addition, the LSG business is a major supplier of licensedHarley-Davidson®apparel to Harley-Davidson dealerships.

Under license from Major League Baseball,
theMajestic®brand is the official on-field uniform of all 30 major league
teams.Majestic®brand adult and youth-size authentic, replica jerseys and fanwear are sold
through sporting goods and athletic specialty stores, department stores and major league stadiums. Sports apparel and fanwear marketed under other licensed labels are distributed through department, mass merchant, sporting goods and athletic
specialty stores and e-commerce partners. Our quick response capabilities allow us to deliver products to retailers within hours following major sporting events such as the Super Bowl, the World Series and conference or division playoff
championships.

Strategic opportunities to grow revenues include: the continued extension of product and service capabilities
to new industrial and service apparel distribution channels, markets, and geographies; expansion of Image’s traditional business-to-business workwear brands into consumer channels; market share gains in key licensed categories such as
women’s sports apparel; and the expansion of our college and university fanwear program.

Sportswear Coalition

The Sportswear coalition consists of theNautica®andKipling®brand businesses in North America (theKipling®brand outside of North America is managed by the Outdoor & Action Sports coalition).

Nautica®brand sportswear is marketed through department stores, specialty stores, VF-operated stores and at www.nautica.com. TheNautica®brand is one of the leading men’s sportswear collection brands in department stores in the U.S.
OtherNautica®product lines include men’s outerwear, underwear and swimwear and men’s and
women’s sleepwear. We operate over 85Nautica®brand stores in premium and better outlet centers across the U.S.

TheNautica®brand is licensed to independent parties in the U.S. for apparel categories not produced by VF (e.g., tailored clothing, dress shirts, neckwear, women’s swimwear
and outerwear, children’s clothing) and for non-apparel categories (e.g., accessories, fragrances, watches, eyewear, footwear, luggage, bed and bath






products, furniture). Outside the
U.S.,Nautica®products are licensed for sale in over 50 countries, including over
300Nautica®brand stores operated by independent licensees in Asia, North and South America
and the Middle East.

The Sportswear coalition also includes theKipling®business in North America whose products include handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and
accessories.Kipling®products are sold in the U.S. through department, specialty and luggage
stores, at over 30 VF-operated full-price and outlet stores and at www.kipling.com, and in Canada through specialty and department stores. In the U.S., theKipling®brand has seen significant growth, driven by new stores, comparable store growth and increased distribution.

We believe there is the potential to growNautica®brand revenue and improve profit performance through the growth of core Nautica sportswear products, increased average selling prices, improved product
assortments and an enhanced customer experience atNautica®brand outlet stores, growth in the
brand’s online business and expansion of the licensed business. There is also the potential for expanding theKipling®brand through our handbag and accessories relationship with Macy’s, Inc., e-commerce, the travel-related retail distribution channel and additional
VF-operated stores.

Contemporary Brands Coalition

Our Contemporary Brands coalition is focused on premium lifestyle brands, and includes the7 For All
Mankind®,Splendid®andElla
Moss®brands.

The7 For All Mankind®brand offers premium denim and related products for women and men. While the core business remains focused on denim, the collection also includes sportswear
products, such as knit and woven tops, sweaters, jackets and accessories. The7 For All
Mankind®brand is marketed primarily in North America and Europe through premium department stores,
specialty stores, 85 VF-operated stores and over 50 independently-operated partnership stores. Products are also sold online at www.7forallmankind.com.

TheSplendid®brand offers premium tops and casual
apparel for women, men and children, and theElla Moss®brand offers premium sportswear
for women and girls. These brands, noted for their soft wearable fabrics and vibrant colors, are marketed to upscale department and specialty stores primarily in the U.S. They are also sold through over 30 VF-operatedSplendid®brand stores and threeElla Moss®brand stores, and at www.splendid.com and www.ellamoss.com.

We believe the7 For All Mankind®,Splendid®andElla Moss®brands can grow their revenues through continued denim innovation, e-commerce, licensing arrangements and wholesale channel expansion. We are also focusing on
international growth opportunities, primarily through VF-operated and partnership stores in Europe, Asia and South America.

Direct-To-Consumer Operations

Our direct-to-consumer business includes full-price stores, outlet stores, e-commerce and, effective in 2014, concession retail stores. Under typical concession arrangements, VF pays a concession fee for
use of the space based on a percentage of retail sales. Prior to 2014, revenues from concession retail stores were included in the wholesale channel. Direct-to-consumer revenues were 26% of total VF revenues in 2014 compared with 24% in 2013 (22% in
2013 prior to the concession classification change from wholesale to the direct-to-consumer channel).

Our full-price stores
allow us to display a brand’s full line of products with fixtures and imagery that support the brand’s positioning and promise to consumers. These experiences provide high visibility for our brands and products and enable us to stay close
to the needs and preferences of our consumers. The complete and impactful presentation of products in our stores also helps to increase sell-through of VF products at our wholesale customers due to increased brand awareness, education and
visibility. VF-operated full-price stores generally provide gross margins that are well above VF averages.






In addition, VF operates outlet stores in both premium outlet malls and more traditional
value-based locations. These outlet stores serve an important role in our overall inventory management and profitability by allowing VF to sell a significant portion of excess, discontinued and out-of-season products at better prices than are
otherwise available from outside parties, while maintaining the integrity of our brands.

Our growing
global direct-to-consumer operations include 1,401 stores at the end of 2014. We operate retail store locations for the following brands:Vans®,Timberland®, The
North Face®,Nautica®,7 For All
Mankind®, Kipling®, Lee®,Wrangler®, lucy®,Napapijri®,Splendid®andElla
Moss®. We also operate 80VF Outlet®stores in the U.S. that sell a
broad selection of excess VF products, as well as other non-VF products. Approximately 70% of VF-operated stores offer products at full price, and the remainder are outlet locations. Approximately 65% of our stores are located in the Americas (60%
in the U.S.), 25% in Europe and 10% in Asia Pacific. Additionally, we have over 800 concession retail stores located principally in Europe and Asia.

E-commerce is our fastest growing direct-to-consumer channel and represented approximately 14% of our direct-to-consumer business in 2014. We currently market the following brands online:The North
Face®,Vans®,Timberland®, 7 For
All Mankind®, Kipling®,SmartWool®,
Lee®,Wrangler®,lucy®,Nautica®,Splendid®,Ella Moss®,JanSport®,Reef®, Napapijri®,
Eastpak®andEagle Creek®. We continue to expand our e-commerce initiatives by rolling out additional, country-specific brand sites in Europe and Asia, which enhances our ability to deliver a
superior, localized consumer experience.

We expect our direct-to-consumer business to continue to grow
at a faster pace than VF’s overall growth rate as we continue to drive higher comparable store sales, open new stores and expand our e-commerce presence. We opened 188 stores during 2014, concentrating on the brands where we see higher retail
growth potential —Vans®,The North
Face®,Timberland®andKipling®.

In addition to our direct-to-consumer operations, our licensees, distributors and other independent
parties own and operate over 3,000 partnership stores. These are primarily monobrand retail locations selling VF products that have the appearance of VF-operated stores. Most of these partnership stores are located in Europe and Asia, and are
concentrated inThe North Face®,Vans®,Timberland®,Kipling®,Nautica®,Napapijri®,Lee®andWrangler®brands.

Licensing Arrangements

As part of our strategy of expanding market
penetration of VF-owned brands, we enter into licensing agreements with independent parties for specific apparel and complementary product categories when such arrangements provide more effective manufacturing, distribution and marketing than could
be achieved internally. We provide support to these business partners and ensure the integrity of our brand names by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of licensed products.

Licensing arrangements relate to a broad range of VF brands. License agreements are for fixed terms of generally
three to five years, with conditional renewal options. Each licensee pays royalties to VF based on its sales of licensed products, with most agreements providing for a minimum royalty requirement. Royalties generally range from 4% to 10% of the
licensing partners’ net licensed products sales. Royalty income was $127.4 million in 2014 (1% of total revenues), primarily from theNautica®,Vans®,Lee®,Timberland®, andWrangler®brands. In addition, licensees of our brands are generally required to spend from 1% to 5%
of their net licensed product sales to advertise VF’s products. In some cases, these advertising amounts are remitted to VF for advertising on behalf of the licensees.

VF has also entered into license agreements to use trademarks owned by third parties. We market apparel under licenses granted by Major League Baseball, the Major League Baseball Players Association, the
National Football League, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc., major colleges and universities, and individual athletes and related organizations, most of which contain minimum annual
royalty and advertising requirements.






Manufacturing, Sourcing and Distribution

Product design and innovation, including fit, fabric, finish and quality, are important elements across our businesses. These functions
are performed by employees located in our global supply chain organization and our branded business units across the globe.

VF’s centralized global supply chain organization is responsible for sourcing and delivering products to our customers. VF is highly
skilled in managing the complexities associated with our global supply chain. On an annual basis, VF sources or produces approximately 522 million units spread across more than 30 brands. Our products are obtained from 28 VF-operated
manufacturing facilities and approximately 2,000 contractor manufacturing facilities in over 50 countries. Additionally, we operate 32 distribution centers and 1,401 retail stores. Managing this complexity is made possible by the use of a network of
information systems for product development, forecasting, order management and warehouse management, along with our core enterprise resource management platforms.

In 2014, 24% of our units were manufactured in VF-owned facilities and 76% were obtained from independent contractors, primarily in Asia. Products manufactured in VF facilities generally have a lower cost
and shorter lead times than products procured from independent contractors. Products obtained from contractors in the Western Hemisphere generally have a higher cost than products obtained from contractors in Asia. However, contracting in the
Western Hemisphere gives us greater flexibility, shorter lead times and allows for lower inventory levels. This combination of VF-owned and contracted production, along with different geographic regions and cost structures, provides a well-balanced,
flexible approach to product sourcing. We will continue to manage our supply chain from a global perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global production environment.

VF operates manufacturing facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe and the Middle East. A
significant percentage of denim bottoms and occupational apparel is manufactured in these plants, as well as a smaller percentage of footwear. For these owned production facilities, we purchase raw materials from numerous domestic and international
suppliers to meet our production needs. Raw materials include products made from cotton, leather, rubber, wool, synthetics and blends of cotton and synthetic yarn, as well as thread and trim (product identification, buttons, zippers, snaps, eyelets
and laces). In some instances, we contract the sewing of VF-owned raw materials into finished product with independent contractors. Manufacturing in the U.S. includes all Major League Baseball uniforms, along with screen printing and embroidery of
jerseys, T-shirts and fleece products. Fixed price commitments for fabric and certain supplies are generally set on a quarterly basis for the next quarter’s purchases. No single supplier represents more than 5% of our total cost of sales.

Independent contractors generally own the raw materials and ship finished ready-for-sale products to VF. These contractors
are engaged through VF sourcing hubs in Hong Kong (with satellite offices across Asia) and Panama. These hubs are responsible for coordinating the manufacturing and procurement of product, supplier management, product quality assurance, and
transportation and shipping functions in the Eastern and Western Hemispheres, respectively. Substantially all products in the Outdoor & Action Sports and Sportswear coalitions, as well as a portion of products for our Jeanswear and
Imagewear coalitions, are obtained through these sourcing hubs. For most products in our Contemporary Brands coalition, we contract the sewing and finishing of VF-owned raw materials through a network of independent contractors based in the U.S.

Management continually monitors political risks and developments related to duties, tariffs and quotas. We limit VF’s
sourcing exposure through, among other measures: (i) diversifying geographies with a mix of VF-operated and contracted production, (ii) shifting of production among countries and contractors, (iii) sourcing production to merchandise
categories where product is readily available and (iv) sourcing from countries with tariff preference and free trade agreements. VF does not directly or indirectly source products from suppliers in countries that are prohibited by the State
Department.

All VF-operated production facilities throughout the world, as well as all independent contractor facilities that
manufacture VF products, must comply with VF’s Global Compliance Principles. These principles,






established in 1997 and consistent with international labor standards, are a set of strict standards covering legal and ethical business practices, workers’ ages, work hours, health and
safety conditions, environmental standards and compliance with local laws and regulations. In addition, our owned factories must also undergo certification by the independent, nonprofit organization, Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production
(“WRAP”), which promotes global ethics in manufacturing.

VF, through its contractor monitoring program, audits the
activities of the independent businesses and contractors that produce VF products at locations across the globe. Each of the approximately 2,000 independent contractor facilities, including those serving our independent licensees, must be
pre-certified before producing VF products. This precertification includes passing a factory inspection and signing a VF Terms of Engagement agreement. We maintain an ongoing audit program to ensure compliance with these requirements by using
dedicated internal staff and externally contracted firms. Additional information about VF’s Code of Business Conduct, Global Compliance Principles, Terms of Engagement, Factory Compliance Guidelines, Factory Audit Procedure and Environmental
Compliance Guidelines, along with a Global Compliance Report, is available on the VF website at www.vfc.com.

VF did not
experience difficulty in fulfilling its raw material and contracting production needs during 2014. Absent any material changes, VF believes it would be able to largely offset any increases in product costs through (i) the continuing shift in
the mix of its business to higher margin brands, geographies and channels of distribution, (ii) increases in the prices of its products and (iii) cost reduction opportunities. The loss of any one supplier or contractor would not have a
significant adverse effect on our business.

Product is shipped from our independent suppliers and VF-operated manufacturing
facilities to distribution centers around the world. In some instances, product is shipped directly to our customers. Most distribution centers are operated by VF, and some support more than one brand. A portion of our distribution needs are met by
contract distribution centers.

Seasonality

VF’s quarterly operating results vary due to the seasonality of our individual businesses, and are historically stronger in the second half of the year. On a quarterly basis in 2014, consolidated
revenues ranged from a low of 20% of full year revenues in the second quarter to a high of 29% in both the third and fourth quarters, while consolidated operating margin ranged from a low of 9% in the second quarter to a high of 18% in the third
quarter. This variation results primarily from the seasonal influences on revenues of our Outdoor & Action Sports coalition, where 18% of the coalition’s revenues occurred in the second quarter compared to 30% in both the third and
fourth quarters of 2014. With changes in our mix of business and the growth of our retail operations, historical quarterly revenue and profit trends may not be indicative of future trends.

Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working capital increases during the first half of the year as inventory builds to
support peak shipping periods and then moderates during the second half of the year as those inventories are sold and accounts receivable are collected. Cash provided by operating activities is substantially higher in the second half of the year due
to higher net income during that period and reduced working capital requirements, particularly during the fourth quarter.

Advertising,
Customer Support and Community Outreach

During 2014, our advertising and promotion expense was $713.7 million,
representing 5.8% of total revenues. We advertise in consumer and trade publications, on radio and television, and through digital initiatives including social media and mobile platforms on the Internet. We also participate in cooperative
advertising on a shared cost basis with major retailers in print media, radio and television. We sponsor sporting, musical and special events, as well as athletes and personalities who promote our products. We employ marketing sciences to optimize
the impact of advertising and promotional spending and to identify the types of spending that provide the greatest return on our marketing investments.






We provide advertising support to our wholesale customers in the form of point-of-sale
fixtures and signage to enhance the presentation and brand image of our products. We also participate in shop-in-shops and concession retail arrangements, which are separate sales areas dedicated to a specific VF brand within our customers’
stores, to help differentiate and enhance the presentation of our products.

We contribute to incentive programs with our
wholesale customers, including cooperative advertising funds, discounts and allowances. We also offer sales incentive programs directly to consumers in the form of rebate and coupon offers.

The North Face

®

Planet Explore

®

The North Face Endurance Challenge

®

Explore Your Parks

™

Timberland

®

Path of Service

™

Wrangler

®

™

™

Vans

®

Vans

®

Vans

®

Nautica

®

Lee National Denim
Day

®

Sustainability

VF’s approach to Sustainability and Responsibility (“S&R”) is to responsibly manage its business, from the way it
makes, distributes and markets products to the ways it preserves the environment and supports local communities. During 2014, VF continued to build a global sustainability infrastructure to support the goals of S&R. This included the launch of a
global S&R scorecard to enable data collection and goal-setting, and an assessment to identify our sustainability risks and opportunities. VF also launched its inaugural S&R Report, a compilation of the many actions and investments
taking place across VF for our businesses to operate in a sustainable manner. Current initiatives include i) an on-going partnership with the Better Cotton Initiative to promote sustainable farming methods, ii) retrofitting owned facilities
with LED lighting and pursuing LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) or BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology) certification for new offices and distribution centers, and iii) continuing our
innovative approach to responsible chemical management in our supply chain.

Other Matters

Competitive Factors

Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer demand for VF’s brands and products. VF is well-positioned to compete in the apparel, footwear and accessories sector by developing high
quality, innovative products at competitive prices that meet consumer needs, providing high service levels, ensuring the right products are on the retail sales floor to meet consumer demand, investing significant amounts behind existing brands and
continuing to evaluate the potential for acquiring additional brands. We continually strive to improve in each of these areas. Many of VF’s brands have long histories and enjoy strong recognition within their respective consumer segments.






Intellectual Property

Trademarks, trade names, patents and domain names, as well as related logos, designs and graphics, provide substantial value in the
development and marketing of VF’s products and are important to our continued success. We have registered this intellectual property in the U.S. and in other countries where our products are manufactured and/or sold. We vigorously monitor and
enforce VF’s intellectual property against counterfeiting, infringement and violations of other rights where and to the extent legal, feasible and appropriate. In addition, we grant licenses to other parties to manufacture and sell products
utilizing our intellectual property in product categories and geographic areas in which VF does not operate.

Customers

VF products are primarily sold on a wholesale basis to specialty stores, department stores, national chains and mass
merchants. In addition, we sell products on a direct-to-consumer basis through VF-operated stores and e-commerce sites, which accounted for 26% of our total revenues in 2014. Our sales in international markets are growing and represented 38% of our
total revenues in 2014, the majority of which were in Europe.

Sales to VF’s ten largest customers, all of which are
retailers based in the U.S., amounted to 20% of total revenues in 2014, and 21% in both 2013 and 2012. Sales to the five largest customers amounted to approximately 15% of total revenues in 2014, and 16% in both 2013 and 2012. Sales to VF’s
largest customer totaled 8% of total revenues in 2014, 2013 and 2012, the majority of which were in the Jeanswear coalition.

Employees

VF had approximately 59,000 employees at the end of 2014, of which approximately 26,000 were located in the U.S. Approximately 600 employees in the U.S. are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In
international markets, a significant percentage of employees are covered by trade-sponsored or governmental bargaining arrangements. Employee relations are considered to be good.

Backlog

The dollar amount of VF’s order backlog as of any date may not be indicative of actual future shipments and, accordingly, is not material to an understanding of the business of VF taken as a whole.

Executive Officers of VF

The following are the executive officers of VF Corporation as of March 2, 2015. The executive officers are generally elected annually and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. There is no
family relationship among any of the VF Corporation executive officers.

Eric C. Wiseman, 59, has been
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of VF since August 2008, January 2008 and March 2006, respectively. He has been a Director of VF since October 2006. He has held a progression of leadership roles within VF since
1995.

Robert K. Shearer, 63, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of VF since 2005.
He served as Vice President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer from 1998 to 2005, Vice President — Controller from 1994 to 1998, Controller from 1989 to 1994, and Assistant Controller from 1986 to 1989.

Scott H. Baxter, 50, has been Vice President and Group President — Jeanswear Americas, Imagewear and South America
since May 2013. He served as Vice President and Group President — Jeanswear Americas and Imagewear from 2011 until May 2013, President of Imagewear, composed of both the Image and Licensed Sports Group businesses, from 2008 to 2011, and
President of the Licensed Sports Group from 2007 to 2008.

Laura C. Meagher, 54, has been Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary since 2012. She served as Vice President — Deputy General Counsel from 2008 to 2012, and Assistant General Counsel from 2004 to 2008.






Steve E. Rendle, 55, has been Senior Vice President
— Americas since April 2014. He served as Vice President and Group President — Outdoor & Action Sports Americas from May 2011 until April 2014, President of VF’s Outdoor Americas businesses from 2009 to 2011, President ofThe North Face®brand from 2004 to 2009 and Vice President of Sales ofThe North Face®brand from 1999 to 2004.

Scott
A. Roe, 50, has been Vice President — Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of VF since February 2013. He served as Vice President — Finance of VF from 2012 to 2013, as Vice President — Chief Financial Officer of VF
International from 2006 to 2012, and as Vice President — Chief Financial Officer of VF’s former intimate apparel business from 2002 to 2006. He joined VF in 1996.

Karl Heinz Salzburger, 57, has been Vice President of VF and President — VF International since
2009. He became President of VF’s European, Middle East, Africa and Asian operations in September 2006. He served as President of VF’s international outdoor businesses from 2001 to 2006. He joined VF with the acquisition ofThe North
Face®brand in 2000.

Additional
information is included under the caption “Election of Directors” in VF’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 28, 2015 (“2015 Proxy Statement”) that will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended January 3, 2015, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration
statements and other filings that VF has filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge from the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) and public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 and on VF’s website at
www.vfc.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. Copies of these reports may also be obtained free of charge upon written request to the Secretary of VF Corporation,
P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420. Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The following corporate governance documents can be accessed on VF’s website: VF’s Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of our Audit Committee,
Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee. Copies of these documents also may be obtained by any shareholder free of charge upon written request to the Secretary of VF Corporation, P.O. Box 21488,
Greensboro, NC 27420.

After VF’s 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, VF intends to file with the New York Stock
Exchange (“NYSE”) the certification regarding VF’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards as required by NYSE Rule 303A.12. Last year, VF filed this certification with the NYSE on April 25, 2014.

