Item 1.Business.



V.F. Corporation, organized in 1899, is a worldwide leader in
    branded lifestyle apparel and related products. Unless the
    context indicates otherwise, the terms “VF,”
    “we,” “us” and “our” used herein
    refer to V.F. Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our
    stated vision is: VF will grow by building lifestyle brands that
    excite consumers around the world.



For over 100 years, VF has grown by offering consumers high
    quality, high value branded apparel and related products. Since
    2004, we have been implementing a strategy that is transforming
    VF’s mix of business to include more lifestyle brands.
    Lifestyle brands are those brands that connect closely with
    consumers because they are aspirational and inspirational; they
    reflect consumers’ specific activities and interests.
    Lifestyle brands generally extend across multiple product
    categories and have higher than average gross margins.
    Accordingly, this transformation has included the acquisitions
    of many lifestyle brands in recent years, includingVans®,Reef®,Kipling®,Napapijri®,7 For All
    Mankind®,lucy®,Splendid®andElla
    Moss®.

    At the same time, we have continued to support all of our
    businesses through product line extensions, geographic
    expansion, retail store openings, product innovation, consumer
    research and marketing.



VF is a highly diversified apparel company — across
    brands, product categories, channels of distribution and
    geographies. VF owns a broad portfolio of brands in the
    jeanswear, outerwear, packs, luggage, footwear, sportswear,
    occupational and performance apparel categories. These products
    are marketed to consumers shopping in specialty stores, upscale
    and traditional department stores, national chains and mass
    merchants. A growing portion of our revenues, currently 18%, is
    derived from sales to consumers through VF-operated stores and
    internet sites. VF derives 30% of its revenues from outside the
    United States, primarily in Europe, Asia, Canada and Latin
    America. VF products are also sold in many countries through
    independent licensees and distributors. To provide our products
    across multiple channels of distribution in different geographic
    areas, we balance efficient and flexible internally-owned
    manufacturing with sourcing finished goods from independent
    contractors. We utilizestate-of-the-arttechnologies for inventory replenishment that enable us to
    effectively and efficiently get the right assortment of products
    which match consumer demand to our customers’ shelves.



VF’s businesses are organized primarily into product
    categories, and by brands within those categories, for both
    management and internal financial reporting purposes. These
    groupings of businesses are called “coalitions” and
    consist of the following: Outdoor & Action Sports,
    Jeanswear, Imagewear, Sportswear and Contemporary Brands. These
    coalitions are our reportable segments for financial reporting
    purposes. Coalition management has responsibility to build their
    brands, with certain financial, administrative and systems
    support and disciplines provided by central functions within VF.



We consider our Outdoor & Action Sports, Sportswear
    and Contemporary Brands coalitions to be our lifestyle
    coalitions, which have the potential to achieve higher long-term
    revenue, profit growth and profit margins than our other
    businesses. Our Jeanswear and Imagewear coalitions are our
    heritage businesses which have historically strong levels of
    profitability and cash flows but lower revenue growth rates.





The following table summarizes VF’s primary owned and
    licensed brands by coalition:



CoalitionPrimary BrandsPrimary ProductsOutdoor & Action SportsThe North
    Face®performance-oriented apparel, footwear, outdoor gearVans®skateboard-inspired footwear, apparelJanSport®backpacks, luggage, apparelEastpak®backpacks, apparelKipling®handbags, luggage, backpacks, accessories (outside North America)Napapijri®premium outdoor apparelReef®surf-inspired footwear, apparelEagle
    Creek®luggage, backpacks, travel accessorieslucy®women’s activewearJeanswearWrangler®denim and casual bottoms, topsLee®denim and casual bottoms, topsRiders®denim and casual bottoms, topsRustler®denim and casual bottoms, topsTimber Creek by
    Wrangler®denim and casual bottoms, topsImagewearRed
    Kap®occupational apparelBulwark®protective occupational apparelMajestic®athletic apparelMLB®(licensed)licensed athletic apparelNFL®(licensed)licensed athletic apparelHarley-Davidson®(licensed)licensed apparelSportswearNautica®men’s fashion sportswear, denim bottoms, sleepwear,
    accessories, underwearKipling®handbags, luggage, backpacks, accessories (within North America)Contemporary Brands7 For All
    Mankind®premium denim and casual bottoms, sportswear, accessoriesJohn
    Varvatos®luxury men’s apparel, footwear, accessoriesSplendid®premium women’s sportswearElla
    Moss®premium women’s sportswear





Financial information regarding VF’s coalitions is included
    in Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which
    are included at Item 8 of this report.



Outdoor &
    Action Sports Coalition



Our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition, VF’s
    fastest growing business, is a group of authentic lifestyle
    brands which are outdoor and activity-based. Product offerings
    include outerwear, performance wear, sportswear, footwear,
    equipment, backpacks, luggage and accessories.



The North
    Face®is the largest brand in our Outdoor & Action Sports
    Coalition. Its high performance outdoor apparel, equipment and
    footwear are sold around the world. (In Japan and South Korea,The North
    Face®trademarks are owned by a third party.)The North
    Face®apparel lines consist of performance wear, outerwear, snow
    sports gear, functional sportswear and footwear for men, women
    and children. Its equipment line consists of tents, sleeping
    bags, backpacks and accessories. Many ofThe North
    Face®products are designed for extreme applications, such as high
    altitude mountaineering and ice and rock climbing, although many
    consumers purchase these products because they represent a
    lifestyle to which they aspire.The North
    Face®products are marketed





through specialty outdoor and premium sporting goods stores in
    the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia and select department
    stores in the United States. In addition, these products are
    sold through over 60 VF-operated full price and outlet stores in
    the United States and Europe and online at www.thenorthface.com.
    The brand is also sold through agents, distributors, and over
    300The North
    Face®stores operated by independent third parties outside the United
    States.



VF manufactures and marketsVans®performance and casual footwear and apparel for skateboard,
    bicycle motocross (“BMX”), surf and snow sports
    participants and enthusiasts. Products are sold on a wholesale
    basis through national chain stores in the United States and
    through skate and surf shops and specialty stores in the United
    States, Canada, Europe and Asia. The brand’s products are
    also sold through over 270 ownedVans®full-price and outlet stores in the United States and in key
    European markets. These retail stores carry a wide variety ofVans®footwear, along with a growing assortment of apparel and
    accessory items. In 2010, we completed the acquisition of our
    former 50% owned joint venture that markets theVans®brand in Mexico. VF is the 70% owner of theVans Warped
    Tour®music festival, which presents over 40 punk rock bands in
    performances in over 40 cities across North America each
    summer as well as online at www.vans.com.



JanSport®backpacks, duffel bags, luggage and accessories are sold through
    department, office supply and national chain stores, as well as
    sports specialty stores and college bookstores in the United
    States.JanSport®backpacks have a leading market share in the United States. A
    technical line ofJanSport®backpacks is sold through outdoor and sporting goods stores.JanSport®fleece and T-shirts imprinted with college logos are sold
    through college bookstores and sporting goods stores in the
    United States. In Europe,Eastpak®andJanSport®backpacks, travel bags, luggage, and a line ofEastpak®clothing are sold primarily through department and specialty
    stores.Eastpak®is one of the leading backpack brands in Europe. TheJanSport®andEastpak®brands are also marketed throughout Asia by licensees and
    distributors.Eagle
    Creek®adventure travel gear products include luggage, backpacks and
    accessories sold through specialty luggage stores, outdoor
    stores and department stores throughout the United States and
    Europe.



Kipling®handbags, shoulder bags, backpacks, luggage and accessories are
    stylish, colorful and fun products that are both practical and
    durable. The brand name comes from the author ofThe Jungle
    Book, Rudyard Kipling, and that provides the connection to
    theKipling®monkey mascot, which symbolizes fun and adventure. A colorful
    monkey key ring is attached to every bag, with a different
    monkey design for each product collection. Products are sold
    through specialty and department stores in Europe, Asia and
    South America, as well as through over 40 VF-operated and over
    175 independently-operated stores and at www.kipling.com. TheKipling®business in North America is managed as part of the Sportswear
    Coalition.



Derived from the Finnish word for Arctic Circle, theNapapijri®brand offers premium-priced performance skiwear and
    outdoor-inspired casual outerwear, sportswear and accessories
    for men, women and children. TheNapapijri®brand enjoys especially strong consumer awareness in Italy,
    where it was created, and is expanding across Europe. Products
    are sold on a wholesale basis primarily to European specialty
    shops, and through VF-operated and independently-operated stores
    in several countries in Europe. TheNapapijri®brand is marketed through a majority-owned joint venture in
    Japan.



TheReef®brand of surf-inspired products includes sandals, shoes,
    swimwear and other casual apparel and accessories for men, women
    and children. Products are marketed primarily to surf shops,
    sporting goods and specialty chains, and department stores in
    the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. In recent years, we
    have expanded theReef®brand’s presence by acquiring rights previously held by
    independent distributors to marketReef®products in Europe, Canada and the Caribbean.



Thelucy®brand is an authentic women’s activewear brand designed for
    style, performance and fit that can be worn by today’s
    active woman from workout to weekend.lucy®apparel is sold in 65lucy®branded stores across the United States and via the internet at
    www.lucy.com. Thelucy®stores emphasize the brand’s four core types of
    activity-based apparel — yoga, gym, running and
    exploration.



We expect continued long-term growth in our Outdoor &
    Action Sports Coalition as we extend our brands into new product
    categories, open additional stores, expand geographically, and
    acquire additional outdoor or activity-based lifestyle brands.





Jeanswear
    Coalition



Our Jeanswear Coalition markets jeanswear and related casual
    products in the United States and in many international markets.
    The largest of these brands, theLee®andWrangler®brands, have long-standing traditions as authentic American
    jeans brands as they were established in 1889 and 1947,
    respectively, and have strong market positions.Lee®andWrangler®products are sold in nearly every developed country through a
    combination of wholesale accounts, owned stores and online
    through our brands’ websites. Products also include shorts,
    casual pants, knit and woven tops and outerwear, which are
    designed to complement the jeanswear products and extend our
    brands.



In domestic markets,Lee®products are sold primarily through mid-tier department stores
    and specialty stores.Wrangler®westernwear is marketed through western specialty stores. TheWrangler®,Rustler®andRiders®brands are marketed to mass merchant and regional discount
    stores. Based on available data, we believe our key brands have
    been gaining market share despite significant competitive
    activity in all channels where they are distributed. Including
    all of our jeanswear brands, we believe VF has the largest unit
    market share of jeans in the United States and is one of the
    largest marketers of jeans in the world. We also market cotton
    casual pants under theLee
    Casuals®,Timber Creek by
    Wrangler®andWrangler®brands.



Our vendor-managed inventory and retail floor space management
    programs with several of our major retailer customers give us a
    competitive advantage in our domestic jeanswear business. We
    receivepoint-of-saleinformation from these customers on a daily basis, at an
    individual store and style-size-color stockkeeping unit
    (“SKU”) level. We then ship products based on that
    customer data to ensure their selling floors are appropriately
    stocked with products that match their shoppers’ needs. Our
    systems capabilities allow us to analyze our retail
    customer’s sales, demographic and geographic data to
    develop product assortment recommendations that maximize the
    productivity of their jeanswear selling space and minimize their
    investment in inventory.



Jeanswear in most international markets is more fashion-oriented
    and has a higher selling price than similar products in the
    United States. The international jeans market is also more
    fragmented than the United States market, with competitors
    ranging from global brands to a number of smaller brands
    marketed in a specific country or region.



VF’s largest international jeanswear business is located in
    Western Europe.Lee®andWrangler®jeanswear products are sold through department stores and
    specialty stores where we employ some of the same retail floor
    space management programs described above. We also marketLee®andWrangler®products to mass market and specialty stores in Canada and
    Mexico, as well as to department stores and specialty stores in
    Asia and South America. In many international markets, we are
    expanding our reach through VF-operated stores, which are an
    important vehicle for presenting our brands’ image and
    marketing message directly to consumers. We are continuing to
    expand our jeanswear brands in emerging markets, and have
    experienced significant growth in China and India. In foreign
    markets where VF does not have owned operations,Lee®andWrangler®products are marketed through distributors, agents or licensees.Lee®andWrangler®products are sold in over 600 independently operated mono or
    multibrand stores primarily in Eastern Europe and Asia.



In the United States, we believe our Jeanswear Coalition is
    growing its jeans market share in the mass market, westernwear
    specialty, and national chain channels of distribution through
    superior consumer insight and marketing strategies and
    continuous product innovation. Internationally, growth will be
    driven by expansion of our existing businesses in Asia where we
    have averaged in excess of 21% revenue growth per year over the
    last three years, with India showing a revenue growth of 64% in
    2010.



Imagewear
    Coalition



Our Imagewear Coalition consists of the Image (occupational
    apparel and uniforms) and Licensed Sports (owned and licensed
    high profile sports and lifestyle apparel) businesses. Each
    business represents approximately one-half of coalition revenues.



The Image business provides uniforms and career occupational
    apparel for workers in North America and internationally, under
    theRed
    Kap®brand (a premium workwear brand with more than 75 years of
    history), theBulwark®brand (flame resistant and protective apparel primarily for the
    petrochemical, utility and mining industries), theHorace
    Small®brand (apparel for law enforcement and public safety personnel)
    and theChef





Designstmbrand (apparel for restaurant and food service staff). Products
    include work pants, slacks, work shirts, overalls, jackets and
    smocks. Image revenues are significantly affected by the overall
    level of U.S. industrial and service employment, which
    improved slightly in 2010 following two years of economic
    contraction. Approximately two-thirds of our Image revenues are
    from industrial laundries, resellers and distributors that in
    turn supply customized workwear to employers foron-the-jobwear by production, service and white-collar personnel. Since
    industrial laundries and uniform distributors maintain minimal
    inventories of work clothes, VF’s ability to offer rapid
    delivery of products in a broad range of sizes is an important
    advantage in this market. Our commitment to customer service,
    supported by an automated central distribution center with
    several satellite locations, enables customer orders to be
    filled within 24 to 48 hours of receipt and has helped theRed
    Kap®andBulwark®brands obtain a significant share of uniform apparel sold to
    laundries, resellers and other distributors.



Our Image business also develops and manages uniform programs
    through custom-designed websites for major business customers
    (e.g., FedEx Corporation, AT&T, Air Canada, Continental
    Airlines, American Airlines) and governmental organizations
    (e.g., U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Fire Department
    of New York City, Transportation Security Administration,
    National Park Service, New York City Transit Authority). These
    websites give these customers’ employees the convenience of
    shopping for their work and career apparel via the internet. We
    believe this business is the nation’s largest supplier of
    nonmilitary apparel to the U.S. government.



Majestic

®

Majestic

®

Harley-Davidson

®



The opportunities to grow our Imagewear Coalition revenues
    include (i) extension of its product and service
    capabilities to new industrial and service apparel distribution
    channels, markets, and geographies, (ii) growth of our
    Major League Baseball and National Football League programs,
    (iii) market share gains in key licensed categories such as
    women’s sports apparel, (iv) expansion of our college
    and university fanware program, and (v) extension of
    VF’s floor space management and quick response retail
    replenishment capabilities to more retail doors, placing the
    right product assortments on the sales floor in each geographic
    market.



Sportswear
    Coalition



TheNautica®brand is the primary lifestyle brand in the Sportswear
    Coalition.Nautica®men’s sportswear, noted for its classic styling, is
    marketed through department stores, specialty stores and
    VF-operated outlet stores in premium and better outlet centers.
    TheNautica Jeans
    Company®line features jeanswear and related tops for younger male
    consumers. We believe theNautica®brand is the number two men’s sportswear collection brand
    in department stores. OtherNautica®product lines include men’s outerwear, underwear and
    swimwear and men’s and women’s sleepwear.Nautica®women’s sportswear is marketed in the United States at mostNautica®outlet stores and at www.nautica.com.



The Sportswear Coalition operates over 90Nautica®outlet stores in premium and better outlet centers across the
    United States. These stores carryNautica®merchandise for men, women, boys, girls and infants. The
    products sold in the outlet stores are different from theNautica®styles sold to department and specialty store wholesale
    customers, although the design inspiration and color palette are
    consistent across both lines. These outlet stores also carryNautica®merchandise from licensees to complete their product assortment.
    The product assortment offered at www.nautica.com includes
    products from both the wholesale and retail lines as well as
    licensed merchandise. In





addition, independent licensees operate over 200Nautica®brand stores across the world. About 80% of these are full price
    stores and 20% are outlet stores with the majority of these
    stores in southeast Europe, Central America and China.



TheNautica®brand is licensed to independent parties in the United States
    for apparel categories not produced by VF (e.g., tailored
    clothing, dress shirts, neckwear, women’s swimwear and
    outerwear, children’s clothing) and for nonapparel
    categories (e.g., accessories, fragrances, watches, eyewear, bed
    and bath products, furniture).Nautica®products are licensed for sale in over 50 countries outside the
    United States. Our licensees’ annual wholesale sales ofNautica®licensed products are approximately $400 million.



The Sportswear Coalition also includes theKipling®business in North America whose products includeKipling®brand handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and accessories.Kipling®has seen significant growth in 2010 from increased distribution,
    two new VF-operated stores, increased sales of its products at
    most existing customers, and a newKipling®handbags and accessories program during 2010 that is exclusive
    with Macy’s Inc. department stores.Kipling®products are also sold in the United States through specialty
    luggage and bag stores, VF-operated stores and www.kipling.com
    and in Canada through specialty and department stores. About
    two-thirds of brand revenue is generated from products that are
    the same as those sold in Europe and other parts of the world,
    with the remainder designed and sold only in the United States.



We believe there is potential to improveNautica®brand revenue and profit performance through the growth of core
    Nautica sportswear products, increased pricing, improved product
    assortments and an enhanced customer experience at ourNautica®outlet stores, growth in our online business, and expansion of
    the licensed business internationally. There is also potential
    for expansion of ourKipling®brand through our handbag and accessories relationship with
    Macy’s Inc. as well as the opportunity to open additional
    VF-operated stores.



Contemporary
    Brands Coalition



Our Contemporary Brands Coalition is focused on premium upscale
    lifestyle brands. The coalition is comprised of the7 For All
    Mankind®,John
    Varvatos®,Splendid®andElla
    Moss®brands.



7 For All
    Mankind

®

7 For All
    Mankind

®

e-commerce,



TheJohn
    Varvatos®brand is a luxury apparel and accessories collection for men,
    including tailored clothing, sportswear, footwear and
    accessories. TheJohn Varvatos*USA®line of tailored clothing, sportswear, footwear and accessories
    is designed to appeal to a younger consumer at more accessible
    price points. Products are sold primarily in the United States
    through upscale department and specialty stores, VF-operatedJohn
    Varvatos®retail locations and online at www.johnvarvatos.com. This
    business is 80% owned by VF, with the balance owned by
    Mr. Varvatos.



In March 2009, VF acquired theSplendid®brand of women’s, men’s and children’s premium
    tops and casual apparel andElla
    Moss®brand of women’s premium sportswear. The brands, noted for
    their soft wearable fabrics and vibrant colors, are marketed to
    upscale department and specialty stores primarily in the United
    States. We have fourSplendid®stores, along withshop-in-shopsin some of our major retail accounts.



The recession significantly impacted sales of premium apparel
    products during 2008 and 2009, as many consumers reduced
    spending for luxury goods. This led to the closing of a
    significant number of specialty stores, as





well as a reduction in same store sales comparisons in the
    upscale department store channel. Although operating results of
    the upscale department stores have improved during 2010 the
    premium denim market remains particularly challenging. Further,
    the specialty store channel has not rebounded to pre-recession
    levels. However, we still see opportunities for growth through
    store openings, e-commerce, and wholesale, geographic and
    product expansion.



Direct-To-ConsumerOperations



VF-operated stores are part of our long-term strategy to drive
    revenue growth and profitability. Our full price stores allow us
    to showcase a brand’s full line of current season products,
    with fixtures and imagery that support the brand’s
    positioning. These stores provide high visibility for our brands
    and products and enable us to stay close to the needs and
    preferences of our consumers. The proper presentation of
    products in our stores, particularly in our showcase stores,
    also helps to increase consumer purchases of VF products sold
    through our wholesale customers. VF-operated full price stores
    generally provide operating margins that are equal to or above
    VF averages and a return on investment well above VF averages.
    In addition, VF operates outlet stores in both premium outlet
    malls and more traditional value-based locations. These outlet
    stores serve an important role in our overall inventory
    management and profitability by allowing VF to sell a
    significant portion of excess, discontinued andout-of-seasonproducts at better prices than are otherwise available from
    outside parties, while maintaining the integrity of our brands.



Our growing global retail operations include 786 stores at the
    end of 2010. Of that total, there are 711 monobrand stores
    (i.e., primarily one brand’s products offered in each
    store) that sellThe North
    Face®,Vans®,Nautica®,7 For All
    Mankind®,lucy®,Splendid®,Lee®,Wrangler®,

    Napapijri®,

    John
    Varvatos®,

    Kipling®,

    and
    Eastpak®.Approximately 78% of these stores offer products at full price,
    with the remainder being outlet locations offering excess,
    discontinued andout-of-seasonproducts at discounted prices. We also operate 75 VF Outlet
    stores in the United States that sell a broad selection of
    excess quantities of VF-branded products, as well as
    women’s intimate apparel, childrenswear, other apparel and
    accessories. Approximately 75% of the VF-operated stores are
    located in the United States, with the remaining stores located
    in Europe, Latin America and Asia.



Across the globe, internet sales (i.e.,e-commerce)comprise a small but rapidly growing portion of apparel,
    footwear and accessories sales. At VF, we currently marketThe North
    Face®,Vans®,Lee®,Wrangler®,7 For All
    Mankind®,lucy®,Nautica®,Kipling®,Splendid®,Ella
    Moss®andJohn
    Varvatos®online in the United States, plusThe North
    Face®and other brands across Europe. We will continue to expand oure-commerceinitiatives through continued rollout of brand sites in Europe
    and Asia, and enhancing each brand’s site to deliver a
    superior experience with each transaction.E-commerceis our fastest growingdirect-to-consumerchannel and represents approximately 8% of ourdirect-to-consumerbusiness.



Total retail store ande-commercerevenues accounted for 18% of VF’s consolidated Total
    Revenues in 2010 and 17% in 2009. We expect ourdirect-to-consumerbusiness to continue to grow at a faster pace than VF’s
    overall growth rate as we continue opening stores and expanding
    oure-commercepresence. During 2010, we opened 85 stores and are planning to
    open approximately 100 new retail locations in 2011. For 2011,
    retail capital investments of approximately $85 million
    will be concentrated where we see higher growth
    potential —Vans®,The North
    Face®,7 For All
    Mankind®and international.



In addition, our licensees, distributors and other independent
    parties operate over 1,700 partnership stores which are
    primarily monobrand stores that have the appearance of
    VF-operated stores. These stores — most of which are
    in Eastern Europe and Asia — are focused onThe
    North
    Face®,Kipling®,Nautica®,Lee®andWrangler®brands.



Licensing
    Arrangements



As part of our business strategy of expanding market penetration
    of VF-owned brands, we may enter into licensing agreements for
    specific apparel and complementary product categories if such
    arrangements with independent parties can provide more effective
    manufacturing, distribution and marketing of such products than
    could be achieved internally. We provide support to these
    business partners and ensure the integrity of our brand





names by taking an active role in the design, quality control,
    advertising, marketing and distribution of licensed products.



Licensing arrangements relate to a broad range of VF brands.
    License agreements are for fixed terms of generally three to
    five years, with conditional renewal options. Each licensee pays
    royalties to VF based on its sales of licensed products, with
    most agreements providing for a minimum royalty requirement.
    Royalties generally range from 5% to 7% of the licensing
    partners’ net licensed products sales. Gross Royalty Income
    was $78.0 million in 2010, with the largest contributions
    from theNautica®,Vans®,The North
    Face®,John
    Varvatos®,Lee®andWrangler®brands. In addition, licensees of our brands are generally
    required to spend from 1% to 5% of their net licensed product
    sales to advertise VF’s products. In some cases, these
    advertising amounts are remitted to VF for advertising on behalf
    of the licensees.



VF has also entered into license agreements to use trademarks
    owned by third parties. We market apparel under licenses granted
    by Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the
    National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League,
    Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc., major colleges and
    universities, and individual athletes and related organizations,
    most of which contain minimum annual licensing and advertising
    requirements.



Manufacturing,
    Sourcing and Distribution



Product design, fit, fabric, finish and quality are important in
    all of our businesses. These functions are performed by
    employees located in either our global supply chain organization
    or our branded business units across the globe.



VF’s centralized global supply chain organization sources
    product and is responsible for delivering products to our
    customers. VF is highly skilled in managing the complexities
    associated with the supply chain. VF’s revenues are
    comprised of over 400 million units spread across 30
    brands. VF operates 25 manufacturing facilities and utilizes at
    least 1,500 contractor manufacturing facilities in over 60
    countries. We operate approximately 30 distribution centers and
    786 retail stores. Managing this complexity is made possible by
    our use of information systems technologies — with
    sophisticated systems for product development, forecasting,
    order management and warehouse management, attached to our core
    enterprise resource management platform.



In 2010, 34% of our units were manufactured in VF-owned
    facilities and 66% were obtained from independent contractors,
    primarily in Asia. Products manufactured in VF facilities
    generally have a lower cost and shorter lead times than
    contracted production. Products obtained from contractors in the
    Western Hemisphere generally have a higher cost than products
    obtained from contractors in the Far East. But contracting in
    the Western Hemisphere gives us greater flexibility, shorter
    lead times and allows for lower inventory levels. This
    combination of VF-owned and contracted production, along with
    different geographic regions and cost structures, provides a
    well-balanced approach to product sourcing. We will continue to
    manage our supply chain from a global perspective and adjust as
    needed to changes in the global production environment.





Our independent contractors generally own the raw materials and
    ship finishedready-for-saleproducts to VF. These contractors are engaged through VF
    sourcing hubs in Hong Kong (with satellite offices across Asia)
    and





Panama. These hubs are responsible for product procurement,
    product quality assurance, supplier management, transportation
    and shipping functions in the Eastern and Western Hemispheres,
    respectively. Substantially all products in the
    Outdoor & Action Sports and Sportswear Coalitions, as
    well as a portion of product requirements for our Jeanswear and
    Imagewear Coalitions, are obtained through these sourcing hubs.
    For most products in our Contemporary Brands Coalition, we
    contract the sewing and finishing of VF-owned raw materials
    through a network of independent domestic contractors.



Management continually monitors political risks and developments
    related to duties, tariffs and quotas. We limit VF’s
    sourcing exposure through, among other measures,
    (i) extensive geographic diversification with a mix of
    VF-operated and contracted production, (ii) shifts of
    production among countries and contractors,
    (iii) allocation of production to merchandise categories
    where the free flow of product is available and
    (iv) sourcing from countries with tariff preference and
    free trade agreements. VF does not directly or indirectly source
    products from suppliers in countries identified by the State
    Department as state sponsors of terrorism and subject to
    U.S. economic sanctions and export controls.





VF did not experience difficulty in filling its raw material and
    contracting production needs during 2010. It is possible that we
    could experience some challenges in our supply chain during 2011
    due to increases in demand and pricing for raw materials,
    primarily related to the cost of cotton. Although VF is not
    immune to these pressures, we believe that we will be able to
    retain our competitive advantage due to our scale and
    significance to our suppliers. The loss of any one supplier or
    contractor would not have a significant adverse effect on our
    business.



Product is shipped from our independent suppliers and
    VF-operated manufacturing plants to distribution centers in the
    United States and international markets. In limited instances,
    product is shipped directly to our customers. Product is
    inspected, sorted and stored in our distribution centers until
    needed for packing and shipping to our wholesale customers or
    our stores. Most distribution centers are operated by VF, and
    some support more than one brand. Our distribution centers use
    computer-controlled inventory management technology for
    efficient tracking, moving and shipping of products. A small
    portion of our distribution needs are met by contract
    distribution centers.



Seasonality



VF’s operating results vary fromquarter-to-quarterthroughout the year due to the differing sales patterns of our
    individual businesses. On a quarterly basis and excluding the
    effect of acquisitions, consolidated Total Revenues for 2010
    ranged from a low of 21% of full year revenues in the second
    quarter to a high of 29% in the third quarter, while
    consolidated Operating Income ranged from a low of 17% in the
    second quarter to a high of 35% in the third quarter. This
    variation results primarily from the seasonal influences on
    revenues of our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition,
    where 18% of the Coalition’s revenues occurred in the
    second quarter and 33% in the third quarter of 2010. With
    changes in our mix of business and growth of our retail
    operations, historical quarterly revenue and





profit trends may not be indicative of future trends. We expect
    the portion of annual revenues and profits occurring in the
    second half of the year to continue to increase.



Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working
    capital generally increases during the first half of the year as
    inventory builds to support peak shipping periods and then
    decreases during the second half of the year as those
    inventories are sold and accounts receivable are collected. Cash
    provided by operating activities is substantially higher in the
    second half of the year due to higher net income during that
    period and reduced working capital requirements, particularly
    during the fourth quarter.



Advertising
    and Customer Support



During 2010, our advertising and promotion spending was
    $426.8 million, representing 5.5% of Net Sales. We
    advertise in consumer and trade publications, on national and
    local radio and television and on the internet. We also
    participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis
    with major retailers in print media, radio and television. We
    sponsor sporting, musical and special events and sponsor a
    number of athletes and personalities. We employ marketing
    sciences to optimize the impact of advertising and promotional
    spending and to identify the types of spending that provide the
    greatest return on our marketing investments.



We providepoint-of-salefixtures and signage to our wholesale customers to enhance the
    presentation and brand image of our products. We utilizeshop-in-shops,which are separate sales areas dedicated to a specific VF brand
    within our customers’ stores, to help differentiate and
    enhance the presentation of our products. We participate in
    concession arrangements with department store customers in China
    and other international markets. In a typical concession
    arrangement, the department store provides a dedicated sales
    area, along with check-out, credit and other retail services,
    while VF owns and bears the risk of inventory ownership.
    Concession sales associates may be employees of VF or the
    department store.



We participate in incentive programs with our retailer
    customers, including discounts, allowances and cooperative
    advertising funds. We also offer sales incentive programs
    directly to consumers in the form of rebate and coupon offers.



We maintain internet sites for most of our brands. Many of them
    aree-commercesites where consumers can order products from VF. Other websites
    provide information about our brands and products and may direct
    consumers to our wholesale customers where they can purchase our
    products. We also operate severalbusiness-to-businesssites where our retail customers can order VF products.



Many of our coalitions employ a staff of in-store marketing and
    merchandising coordinators located in major cities across the
    United States. These individuals visit our customers’
    retail locations to ensure that our products, and those of our
    licensees, are properly presented on the merchandise sales floor
    and to inform the customers’ sales associates about our
    products and related promotions.



In addition to sponsorships and activities that directly benefit
    our products and brands, VF and its associates actively support
    our communities and various charities. For example,The North
    Face®has committed to programs that encourage and enable outdoor
    participation, such as Planet Explore (www.planetexplore.com),
    the Never Stop Exploring Award, and the Explore Your Parks
    program.Nautica®has partnered with Oceana, anot-for-profitorganization focused on ocean conservation. And 2010 marked the
    fifteenth year of support forLee National Denim
    Day®,

    one of the country’s largestsingle-dayfund-raisers for breast cancer which has raised over
    $80 million to fight breast cancer since inception. VF also
    supports companywide sustainability efforts, and recognizes the
    “VF 100” as a means of honoring the 100 VF associates
    world-wide having the highest number of volunteer service hours
    during the year.





Other
    Matters



Competitive
    Factors



Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer demand
    for VF’s brands and products. VF is well-positioned to
    compete in the apparel industry by developing high quality
    innovative products at competitive prices which meet consumer
    needs, providing high service levels, ensuring the right
    products are on the retail sales floor to meet consumer demand,
    and investing significant amounts behind existing brands. We
    continually strive to improve each of these areas. Many of
    VF’s brands have long histories and enjoy high recognition
    within their respective consumer segments.



Trademarks



Trademarks, patents and domain names, as well as related logos,
    designs and graphics, provide substantial value in the marketing
    of VF’s products and are important to our continued
    success. We have registered this intellectual property in the
    United States and in other countries where our products are
    manufacturedand/orsold.
    We vigorously monitor and enforce VF’s intellectual
    property against counterfeiting, infringement and violations of
    other rights where and to the extent legal, feasible and
    appropriate. In addition, we grant licenses to other parties to
    manufacture and sell products utilizing our intellectual
    property in product categories and geographic areas in which VF
    does not operate.



Customers



VF products are primarily sold through our sales force and
    independent sales agents and distributors. VF’s customers
    are specialty stores, department stores, national chains and
    mass merchants in the United States and in international
    markets. Of our Total Revenues, 30% are in international
    markets, the majority of which are in Europe, and 18% aredirect-to-consumerthrough VF-operated stores ande-commercesites (including stores and internet sites in international
    markets).



Sales to VF’s ten largest customers, all of which are
    retailers based in the United States, amounted to 26% of Total
    Revenues in 2010, 27% in 2009 and 26% in 2008. These larger
    customers included (in alphabetical order) Kohl’s
    Corporation, Macy’s, Inc., J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Sears
    Holdings Corporation, Target Corporation and Wal-Mart Stores,
    Inc. Sales to the five largest customers amounted to
    approximately 21% of Total Revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008.
    Sales to VF’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.,
    totaled 10% of Total Revenues in 2010 and 11% in 2009 and 2008,
    the majority of which were in the Jeanswear Coalition.



Employees



VF employed approximately 47,000 men and women at the end of
    2010, of which approximately 20,300 were located in the United
    States. Approximately 680 employees in the United States
    are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In
    international markets, a significant percentage of employees are
    covered by trade-sponsored or governmental bargaining
    arrangements. Employee relations are considered to be good.



Backlog



The dollar amount of VF’s order backlog as of any date is
    not meaningful, may not be indicative of actual future shipments
    and, accordingly, is not material for an understanding of the
    business of VF taken as a whole.





Executive
    Officers of VF



The following are the executive officers of VF Corporation as of
    February 19, 2011. The executive officers are generally
    elected annually and serve at the pleasure of the Board of
    Directors. There is no family relationship among any of the VF
    Corporation executive officers.



Period ServedNamePositionAgeIn Such Office(s)Eric C. WisemanChairman of the BoardChief Executive OfficerPresidentDirector55August 2008 to dateJanuary 2008 to dateMarch 2006 to dateOctober 2006 to dateRobert K. ShearerSenior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer59June 2005 to dateBradley W. BattenVice President — Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer55October 2004 to dateCandace S. CummingsVice President — Administration and General CounselSecretary63March 1996 to dateOctober 1997 to dateMichael T. GannawayVice President — VF Direct/ Customer Teams59January 2008 to dateFrank C. Pickard IIIVice President — Treasurer66April 1994 to dateBoyd A. RogersVice President; President — Supply Chain61June 2005 to dateKarl Heinz SalzburgerVice President; President — VF International53January 2009 to dateSteve RendleVice President; Group President — Outdoor &
    Action Sports Americas51January 2011 to dateScott BaxterVice President; Group President — Jeanswear Americas
    & Imagewear46January 2011 to date





Mr. Wisemanwas named President and Chief Operating
    Officer of VF in March 2006, Director of VF in October 2006,
    Chief Executive Officer in January 2008 and Chairman of the
    Board in August 2008. He has held a progression of leadership
    roles within and across VF’s Coalitions since 1995.



Mr. Shearerjoined VF in 1986 as Assistant
    Controller and was elected Controller in 1989 and Vice
    President — Controller in 1994. He was elected Vice
    President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer in
    1998 and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in
    June 2005.



Mr. Battenrejoined VF in September 2004 and was
    named as Vice President — Controller in October 2004.
    Mr. Batten had previously served as Vice
    President & Chief Financial Officer of VF’s
    former intimate apparel business from 1998 to July 2000.



Mrs. Cummingsjoined VF as Vice
    President — General Counsel in 1995 and became Vice
    President — Administration and General Counsel in 1996
    and Secretary in 1997.



Mr. Gannawayjoined VF in July 2004 as Vice
    President — Customer Management. In January 2008, his
    responsibilities were broadened to Vice President — VF
    Direct/Customer Teams.



Mr. Pickardjoined VF in 1976 and was elected
    Assistant Controller in 1982, Assistant Treasurer in 1985,
    Treasurer in 1987 and Vice President — Treasurer in
    1994.



Mr. Rogersjoined VF in 1971 and served in a number
    of positions until his appointment as Vice President —
    Operations in 1994. He was appointed Vice President —
    Process Development Supply Chain in 2000 and Vice





President — Process and Technology in 2002. In March
    2004, he served as Vice President — Global Supply
    Chain and Technology until his appointment in June 2005 as Vice
    President of VF and President — Supply Chain.



Mr. Salzburgerjoined The North Face in 1997 as
    Chief Executive Officer of European operations and was appointed
    President of The North Face in 1999. Following the VF
    acquisition of The North Face in 2000, Mr. Salzburger
    served as President of VF’s International Outdoor Coalition
    from 2001 until his appointment as President of VF’s
    European, Middle East, Africa and Asian operations in September
    2006. In January 2009, Mr. Salzburger was appointed Vice
    President of VF and President — VF International.



Mr. Rendlejoined The North Face in 1999 and shortly
    afterward was promoted to Vice President of Sales. From 2004 to
    2009, he served as President of The North Face. Prior to being
    appointed to his current role in January 2011, he served as
    President of VF’s Outdoor Americas coalition.



Mr. Baxterjoined VF Corporation in 2007 as
    President of the Licensed Sports Group. In 2008, he was named
    Coalition President for the Imagewear Coalition, comprised of
    both the Image and the licensed Sports Group businesses.



Additional information is included under the caption
    “Election of Directors” in VF’s definitive Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
    April 26, 2011 (“2011 Proxy Statement”) that will
    be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within
    120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended
    January 1, 2011, which information is incorporated herein
    by reference.



Available
    Information



All periodic and current reports, registration statements and
    other filings that VF has filed or furnished to the Securities
    and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual
    reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are available free of
    charge from the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) and public
    reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
    20549 and on VF’s website at www.vfc.com. Such documents
    are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic
    filing of the material with the SEC. Copies of these reports
    (excluding exhibits) may also be obtained free of charge upon
    written request to the Secretary of VF Corporation,
    P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420. Information on
    the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by
    calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.



The following corporate governance documents can be accessed on
    VF’s website: VF’s Corporate Governance Principles,
    Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of our Audit
    Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and
    Nominating and Governance Committee. Copies of these documents
    also may be obtained by any shareholder free of charge upon
    written request to: Secretary of VF Corporation,
    P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420.



After VF’s 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, VF intends
    to file with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the
    certification regarding VF’s compliance with the
    NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards as required
    by NYSE Rule 303A.12. Last year, VF filed this
    certification with the NYSE on April 30, 2010.



