Item 1.Business.

V.F.
Corporation, organized in 1899, is a worldwide leader in branded lifestyle apparel, footwear and related products. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “VF,” “we,” “us” and “our” used herein refer
to V.F. Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our stated vision is: VF will grow by building leading lifestyle brands that excite consumers around the world.

For over 100 years, VF has offered consumers high quality, high value branded products. VF’s strategy is to
continue transforming our mix of business to include more lifestyle brands. Lifestyle brands connect closely with consumers because they are aspirational and inspirational; they reflect consumers’ specific activities and interests. Lifestyle
brands generally extend across multiple product categories and have higher than average gross margins. Accordingly, this transformation has included the acquisitions of many lifestyle brands, includingTimberland®,Vans®,Reef®,Kipling®,Napapijri®,7 For All
Mankind®,lucy®,Splendid®andElla Moss®. At the same time, we have continued to invest in all of our businesses through geographic
expansion, retail store openings, product line extensions, product innovation, consumer research and advertising.

VF is
highly diversified — across brands, product offerings, channels of distribution and geographies. VF owns a broad portfolio of brands in the jeanswear, outerwear, footwear, packs, luggage, sportswear, occupational and performance apparel
categories. These products are marketed to consumers shopping in specialty stores, upscale and traditional department stores, national chains and mass merchants. Our direct-to-consumer operations generate a growing portion of our revenues, currently
21%, from sales to consumers through VF-operated stores and e-commerce sites. VF derives 37% of its revenues from outside the United States, primarily in Europe, Asia, Canada, Mexico and Latin America. VF branded products are also sold in many
countries through licensees, distributors and independently-operated partnership stores. To provide diversified products across multiple channels of distribution in different geographic areas, we balance efficient and flexible owned manufacturing
with sourcing of finished goods from independent contractors. We utilize state-of-the-art technologies for inventory replenishment that enable us to effectively and efficiently get the right assortment of products which match consumer demand to our
customers’ shelves.

VF’s businesses are organized primarily into product categories, and by brands within those
categories, for both management and internal financial reporting purposes. These groupings of businesses are called “coalitions” and consist of the following: Outdoor & Action Sports, Jeanswear, Imagewear, Sportswear and
Contemporary Brands. These coalitions are our reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. Coalition management has responsibility to build and operate their brands, with certain financial, administrative and systems support and disciplines
provided by central functions within VF.

We consider the Outdoor & Action Sports, Sportswear and Contemporary Brands
Coalitions to be our lifestyle coalitions, which have the potential to achieve higher long-term revenue, profit growth and profit margins than our other businesses. The Jeanswear and Imagewear Coalitions are our heritage businesses which have
historically strong levels of profitability and cash flows but lower revenue growth rates.






The following table summarizes VF’s primary owned and licensed brands by coalition:



CoalitionPrimary BrandsPrimary ProductsOutdoor & Action SportsThe North Face®High performance apparel, footwear, outdoor gearTimberland®Outdoor adventure-oriented footwear and apparelVans®Skateboard-inspired footwear, apparelKipling®Handbags, luggage, backpacks, accessories (outside North America)Napapijri®Premium outdoor apparelReef®Surf-inspired footwear, apparelEastpak®Backpacks, apparelJanSport®Backpacks, luggage, apparelSmartWool®Merino wool socks, apparel and accessorieslucy®Women’s activewearEagle
Creek®Luggage, packs, travel accessoriesJeanswearWrangler®Denim and casual bottoms, topsLee®Denim and casual bottoms, topsLee Casuals®Denim and casual bottoms, topsRiders®Denim and casual bottoms, topsRustler®Denim and casual bottoms, topsTimber Creek by Wrangler®Denim and casual bottoms, topsRock & Republic®Fashion denim and sportswearImagewearRed Kap®Occupational apparelBulwark®Protective occupational apparelHorace Small®Occupational apparelMajestic®Athletic apparelMLB®(licensed)Licensed athletic apparelNFL®(licensed)Licensed athletic apparelHarley-Davidson®(licensed)Licensed apparelSportswearNautica®Fashion sportswear, denim bottoms, sleepwear, accessories, underwearKipling®Handbags, luggage, backpacks, accessories (within North America)Contemporary Brands7 For All Mankind®Premium denim and casual bottoms, sportswear, accessoriesSplendid®Premium women’s sportswearElla Moss®Premium women’s sportswear

Financial information regarding VF’s coalitions is included in Note Q to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, which are included at Item 8 of this report.

Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition

Our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition, VF’s fastest growing business, is a group of authentic lifestyle brands which are
outdoor and activity-based. Product offerings include outerwear, performance wear, snow sports gear, sportswear, footwear, equipment, backpacks, luggage and accessories.






The North Face®is the largest brand in our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition, and is sold around the world. (In Japan and South Korea,The North Face®trademarks are owned by a third party.)The North Face®apparel lines consist of performance wear, outerwear, snow sports gear, sportswear and footwear for men, women and children. Its equipment line consists of tents,
sleeping bags, backpacks and accessories. Many ofThe North Face®products are designed for extreme
applications, such as high altitude mountaineering and ice and rock climbing, although many consumers purchase these products because they represent a lifestyle to which they aspire.The North
Face®products are marketed through specialty outdoor and premium sporting goods stores in the United
States, Canada, Europe and Asia and select department stores in the United States. In addition, products are sold through over 100 VF-operated stores in the United States, Europe and Asia and online at www.thenorthface.com. The brand is also sold
outside the United States through agents, distributors, and over 390The North Face®partnership stores
operated by independent third parties.

TheTimberland®brand offers outdoor adventure and leisure products that combine performance benefits and versatile styling,
including premium quality footwear, apparel and accessories for men, women and children.Timberland®brand footwear offerings include boots, hiking boots and shoes, casual shoes, boat shoes, sandals, and custom shoes. TheTimberland Boot Company®is a premium footwear series that pays homage to the turn-of-the century art of shoemaking in New England. TheTimberland PRO®series is developed to address the distinct footwear needs of skilled tradespeople and working professionals. TheEarthkeepers®collection utilizes renewable, organic, and recycled materials to reduce environmental
impact. We sellTimberland®products to retailers on a wholesale basis, as well as through independent
distributors and licensees. In addition, we sell these products through 200 VF-operated stores, over 430 independently-operated partnership stores, and online at www.timberland.com.

Vans®brand performance and casual footwear and apparel is designed for skateboard, bicycle motocross (“BMX”), surf and snow sports participants and
enthusiasts. Products are sold on a wholesale basis through national chain stores, through skate and surf shops, and specialty stores in the United States. Products are sold through over 350 VF-operatedVans®stores located in North America, Europe and Asia, through over 150 partnership stores operated by independent
third parties primarily in Asia and online at www.vans.com. The retail stores carry a wide variety ofVans®footwear, along with a growing assortment of apparel and accessory items. VF is the 70% owner of
theVans Warped Tour®music festival, which presents over 45 rock bands performing in nearly 40 cities
across North America each summer.

Kipling®handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and accessories are stylish, colorful and fun products that are both practical and durable. The brand is named after the
author ofThe Jungle Book, Rudyard Kipling. That heritage also provides the connection to theKipling®monkey mascot key ring attached to every bag. Products are sold through specialty and department
stores in Europe, Asia and South America, as well as through 35 VF-operated stores, over 125 independently-operated partnership stores and at www.kipling.com. TheKipling®business in North America is managed as part of the Sportswear Coalition.

Derived from the Finnish word for Arctic Circle, theNapapijri®brand offers premium-priced performance skiwear and outdoor-inspired casual outerwear, sportswear and accessories for men, women and children. Products are sold
on a wholesale basis primarily to specialty shops in Europe and Asia. Products are also sold in Europe and Asia through both VF-operated and independently-operated partnership stores.

TheReef®brand of surf-inspired products includes sandals, shoes, swimwear and other casual apparel and accessories for men, women and children. Products are sold to surf
shops, sporting goods and specialty chains, department stores, and distributors in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. Products are also sold at www.reef.com. TheReef Redemption®product series incorporates renewable, recycled and/or organic materials, wherever reasonably possible, to produce
uniqueReef®product without sacrificing fit, quality, comfort or style.

JanSport®backpacks, duffel bags, luggage and accessories are sold through department, office supply and national chain stores, as well as sports specialty stores and
college bookstores in the United States.JanSport®






backpacks have a leading market share in the United States. A technical line ofJanSport®backpacks is sold through outdoor and sporting goods stores.JanSport®fleece and T-shirts imprinted with college logos are sold through college bookstores and sporting goods stores in the United States. In Europe,Eastpak®backpacks, travel bags, luggage, and a line ofEastpak®clothing are sold primarily through department and specialty stores.Eastpak®is one of the leading backpack brands in Europe. TheJanSport®andEastpak®brands are also marketed throughout Asia by licensees and distributors.Eagle Creek®adventure travel
gear products include luggage, backpacks and accessories sold through specialty luggage, outdoor, and department stores primarily in North America and Europe, and online at www.eaglecreek.com.

TheSmartWool®brand offers active outdoor consumers a premium, technical layering system of merino wool socks, apparel and accessories that are designed to work together in fit,
form and function.SmartWool®brand products are sold through premium outdoor and specialty retailers
primarily in the United States and Europe, and online at www.smartwool.com.

Thelucy®brand is an authentic women’s activewear brand designed for style, performance and fit that can be worn by
today’s active woman from workout to weekend.lucy®apparel is sold in the United States through
over 55 VF-operatedlucy®stores, on a wholesale basis to U.S. specialty retailers and regional
department stores, and online at www.lucy.com.

We expect continued long-term growth in our Outdoor & Action Sports
Coalition as we focus on product innovation, extend our brands into new product categories, open additional stores, expand geographically, and acquire additional lifestyle brands.

Jeanswear Coalition

Our Jeanswear Coalition markets
jeanswear and related casual products in the United States and in many international markets. The largest of these brands, theLee®andWrangler®brands, have long-standing traditions as authentic American jeans brands as they were established in 1889 and 1947, respectively, and have strong market positions.Lee®andWrangler®products are sold in nearly every developed country through a combination of wholesale accounts, VF-operated stores, independently-operated partnership stores and online through our brands’ websites. Products also include shorts, casual pants,
knit and woven tops and outerwear, which are designed to complement the jeanswear products and extend our brands. We also market jeanswear and related casual products under theLee Casuals®andTimber Creek by
Wrangler®brands.

In domestic markets,Lee®branded products are sold primarily through mid-tier department stores and specialty stores.Wrangler®westernwear is marketed primarily through western specialty stores. TheWrangler®,Rustler®andRiders®by Lee®brands are marketed to mass merchant and regional discount stores. Additionally, we own the trademark and intellectual property ofRock & Republic®,and we have an exclusive wholesale distribution and licensing arrangement with Kohl’s Corporation that
covers allRock & Republic®apparel, accessories, and other merchandise in the United States.

Our advanced vendor-managed inventory and retail floor space management programs with many of our major retailer customers
give us a competitive advantage in our domestic jeanswear business. We receive point-of-sale information from these customers on a daily or weekly basis, at an individual store and style-size-color stockkeeping unit (“SKU”) level. We then
ship products based on that customer data to ensure their selling floors are appropriately stocked with products that match their shoppers’ needs. Our systems capabilities allow us to analyze our retail customers’ sales, demographic and
geographic data to develop product assortment recommendations that maximize the productivity of their jeanswear selling space and optimize their inventory investment.

Jeanswear in most international markets is more fashion-oriented and has a higher selling price than similar products in the United States. The international jeans market is also more fragmented than the
United States market, with competitors ranging from global brands to a number of smaller brands marketed in a specific country or region.






VF’s largest international jeanswear businesses are located in
Europe and Asia.Lee®andWrangler®jeanswear products are sold through department stores and specialty stores. We also marketLee®andWrangler®products to mass market, department and specialty stores in Canada and Mexico, as well as to department stores and specialty stores in Asia and South America. In key international markets, we are expanding our reach through VF-operated stores,
which are an important vehicle for presenting our brands’ image and marketing message directly to consumers. We are continuing to expand our jeanswear brands in emerging markets, and our Lee®brand, in particular, has experienced significant growth in China. In foreign markets where VF does not have owned operations,Lee®andWrangler®products are marketed through distributors, agents, licensees, and over 700 independently operated single brand or multibrand partnership stores.

In the United States, we believe our Jeanswear Coalition is growing its jeans market share in the mass market, western specialty, and
national chain channels of distribution through superior consumer insight and marketing strategies and continuous product innovation. Internationally, growth will be driven by expansion of our existing businesses in Asia.

Imagewear Coalition

Our
Imagewear Coalition consists of the Image business (occupational apparel and uniforms) and Licensed Sports business (owned and licensed high profile athletic apparel). The Image and Licensed Sports businesses represent approximately 55% and 45%,
respectively, of total coalition revenues.

The Image business provides uniforms and career occupational
apparel for workers in North America and internationally, under theRed Kap®brand (a premium workwear
brand with 90 years of history), theBulwark®brand (flame resistant and protective apparel primarily for
the petrochemical, utility and mining industries), and theHorace Small®brand (apparel for law
enforcement and public safety personnel with over 60 years of history). Products include a wide range of functionally designed shirts, pants, coveralls and outerwear. Image revenues are significantly correlated with the overall level of
manufacturing and service industry employment in the United States. Approximately 70% of Image revenues are from industrial laundries, resellers and distributors that in turn supply customized workwear to employers for production, service and
white-collar personnel. Since industrial laundries and distributors maintain minimal inventories of work clothes, VF’s ability to offer rapid delivery of products in a broad range of sizes is an important advantage in this market. Our
commitment to customer service, supported by an automated central distribution center with several satellite locations, enables customer orders to be filled within 24 to 48 hours of receipt and has helped theRed Kap®andBulwark®brands obtain a significant share of uniform apparel sold to industrial laundries, resellers and distributors.

The Image business also develops and manages uniform programs through custom-designed websites for major business customers (e.g., FedEx
Corporation, AT&T, Air Canada, American Airlines) and governmental organizations (e.g., U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Fire Department of New York City, Transportation Security Administration, National Park Service). These websites
provide the employees of our customers with the convenience of shopping for their work and career apparel via the Internet.

In the Licensed Sports business, we design and market sports apparel and fanwear under licenses granted by the major sports leagues, individual athletes and related organizations, including Major League
Baseball, the National Football League, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, MLB Players Association, and selected major colleges and universities. In addition, the Licensed Sports division is a major supplier of licensedHarley-Davidson®apparel to Harley-Davidson dealerships.

Under license from Major League Baseball, theMajestic®brand is the official on-field uniform of all 30 major league teams.Majestic®brand adult and youth-size authentic, replica jerseys and fanwear are sold through sporting goods and athletic specialty stores, department stores and major
league stadiums. Adult and youth sports apparel marketed under other licensed labels are distributed through department, mass market, sporting goods and athletic specialty stores. Our quick response capabilities allow us to deliver products to
retailers within hours






following major sporting events such as the Super Bowl, the World Series, and conference or division playoff championships.

The opportunities to grow Imagewear Coalition revenues include (i) extension of product and service
capabilities to new industrial and service apparel distribution channels, markets, and geographies, (ii) expansion of Image’s traditional business-to-business workwear brands into consumer channels, (iii) growth of theMajestic®brand for Major League Baseball as well as our licensed National Football League business, (iv) market
share gains in key licensed categories such as women’s sports apparel, (v) expansion of our college and university fanwear program, and (vi) extension of VF’s floor space management expertise, through quick response replenishment
capabilities and domestic manufacturing, placing the right product assortments on the retail floor in each geographic market.

Sportswear
Coalition

Nautica®is the primary lifestyle brand in the Sportswear Coalition.Nautica®brand men’s sportswear is marketed through department stores, specialty stores, VF-operated outlet stores and at www.nautica.com. We believe theNautica®brand is one of the leading men’s sportswear collection brands in department stores in the United States.
OtherNautica®product lines include men’s outerwear, underwear and swimwear and men’s and
women’s sleepwear.Nautica®women’s sportswear is sold in the United States at mostNautica®outlet stores and at www.nautica.com.

We operate over 85Nautica®outlet stores in premium and better outlet centers across the United States. These stores carryNautica®merchandise for men, women and children. Most products sold in the outlet stores are different from theNautica®styles sold on a wholesale basis to department and specialty store customers, although the
design inspiration and color palette are consistent across both lines. These outlet stores also carryNautica®merchandise from licensees to complete their product assortment. Products from both the
wholesale and retail lines as well as licensed merchandise can be purchased online at www.nautica.com.

TheNautica®brand is licensed to independent parties in the United States for apparel categories not produced by VF (e.g., tailored clothing, dress shirts, neckwear,
women’s swimwear and outerwear, children’s clothing) and for non-apparel categories (e.g., accessories, fragrances, watches, eyewear, footwear, luggage, bed and bath products, furniture).Nautica®products are licensed for sale in over 45 countries outside the United States. Our licensees’ annual
wholesale sales ofNautica®licensed products are approximately $490 million. In addition, independent
licensees operate over 225Nautica®brand stores across the world. About 85% of these are full price
stores and 15% are outlet stores with the majority of these stores in Asia, North and South America and the Middle East.

The Sportswear Coalition also includes theKipling®business
in North America whose products includeKipling®brand handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and
accessories.Kipling®products are sold in the United States through department, specialty and luggage
stores, VF-operated stores and at www.kipling.com and in Canada through specialty and department stores. In the United States, theKipling®brand has seen significant growth in 2012, driven by increased distribution and new VF-operated stores.

We believe there is the potential to improveNautica®brand revenue and profit performance through the growth of core Nautica sportswear products, increased average selling prices, improved product assortments and an
enhanced customer experience atNautica®outlet stores, growth in the brand’s online business, and
expansion of the licensed business, both domestically and internationally. There is also the potential for expanding theKipling®brand through our handbag and accessories relationship with Macy’s, Inc., the
travel-related retail distribution channel, e-commerce, and additional VF-operated stores.






Contemporary Brands Coalition

Our Contemporary Brands Coalition is focused on premium upscale lifestyle brands, and includes the7 For All
Mankind®,Splendid®andElla Moss®brands.

7 For All Mankind®is a Los Angeles-based brand of premium denim jeans and related products for women and men. While the core business remains focused on denim, the collection also
includes sportswear products, such as knit and woven tops, sweaters, jackets and accessories. Products are noted for their fit and for innovation in design, fabric and finish.7 For All Mankind®is a leading premium jeans brand in the United States, with the premium segment defined as jeans retailing for $100 or more. Retail price points for the
brand’s core jeans range from $149 to $215 for basics, with higher price points for more fashion-forward products. With more than 60% of its sales in the United States, the brand is marketed through premium department stores, such as
Bloomingdale’s, Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus, Saks, through specialty stores and through VF-operated stores. International sales are through department stores, specialty stores, VF-operated stores and over 60 independently-operated partnership
stores, the majority of which are in Europe and Asia. The7 For All Mankind®brand has over 65
VF-operated stores in the United States, Europe, and Canada. Products are also sold online at www.7forallmankind.com.

We believe the7 For All Mankind®brand can grow its
revenues through new stores, e-commerce, additional sportswear product offerings, licensing and increasing productivity in the wholesale channel. We are also focusing on international growth opportunities, primarily through VF-operated and
partnership stores and further geographic expansion in Europe and Asia.

TheSplendid®brand offers premium tops and casual apparel for women, men and children, and theElla Moss®brand offers premium sportswear for women and girls. These brands, noted for their soft wearable fabrics and
vibrant colors, are marketed to upscale department and specialty stores primarily in the United States. They are also sold through 17 VF-operatedSplendid®stores and oneElla
Moss®store, and at www.splendid.com and www.ellamoss.com.

Direct-To-Consumer Operations

Our direct-to-consumer business includes full-price stores, outlet stores, and e-commerce. Direct-to-consumer revenues accounted for 21% of VF’s consolidated total revenues in 2012, as compared to
19% in 2011.

Our full price stores allow us to showcase a brand’s full line of current season products, with fixtures
and imagery that support the brand’s positioning. These stores provide high visibility for our brands and products and enable us to stay close to the needs and preferences of our consumers. The proper presentation of products in our stores,
particularly in our showcase stores, also helps to increase sell-through of VF products at our wholesale customers. VF-operated full price stores generally provide gross margins and operating margins that are higher than VF averages and a return on
investment well above VF averages. In addition, VF operates outlet stores in both premium outlet malls and more traditional value-based locations. These outlet stores serve an important role in our overall inventory management and profitability by
allowing VF to sell a significant portion of excess, discontinued and out-of-season products at better prices than are otherwise available from outside parties, while maintaining the integrity of our brands.

Our growing global retail operations include 1,129 stores at the end of 2012. Of that total, there are 1,049 single
brand stores (i.e., primarily one brand’s product offerings in each store) that sellThe North
Face®,Timberland®, Vans®,Nautica®,7 For All Mankind®,lucy®,Splendid®,Ella Moss®,Lee®,Wrangler®,Napapijri®, Kipling®,andEastpak®brand products. We also operate 80VF Outlet®stores in the United States that sell a broad selection of excess quantities of VF-branded products, as well as women’s intimate apparel, childrenswear,
other apparel and accessories. Approximately 70% of VF-operated stores offer products at full






price, and the remainder are outlet locations. Approximately 60% of our stores are located in the United States and the remaining 40% are located in Europe, Latin America and Asia.

E-commerce is our fastest growing direct-to-consumer channel and represents approximately 11% of our
direct-to-consumer business. We currently marketThe North Face®,Timberland®, SmartWool®, Vans®,Lee®,Wrangler®,7 For All
Mankind®,lucy®,Nautica®,Kipling®,Splendid®,Ella Moss®,Eastpak®,Napapijri®,Eagle Creek®, andReef®products online in the United States, plusThe North Face®, Timberland®, Vans®, 7 For All Mankind®,Kipling®,Napapijri®, Eastpak®,and other brands internationally. We are continuing to
expand our e-commerce initiatives by rolling out additional brand sites in Europe and Asia, and enhancing each brand’s site to deliver a superior consumer experience.

We expect our direct-to-consumer business to continue to grow at a faster pace than VF’s overall growth rate as
we continue opening stores and expanding our e-commerce presence. We opened 141 stores during 2012 and we are planning to open approximately 160 additional locations in 2013, concentrated in the businesses where we see higher retail growth potential
—Vans®,The North Face®,Timberland®,Splendid®,and international.

In addition to our direct-to-consumer operations, our licensees, distributors and other independent parties own and
operate over 2,500 partnership stores. These are primarily monobrand stores selling VF-branded products, and have the appearance of VF-operated stores. Most of these partnership stores are located in Europe and Asia, and are concentrated inThe
North Face®,Vans®,Timberland®,Kipling®,Nautica®,Napapijri®,Lee®, andWrangler®brands.

Licensing Arrangements

As part of our business strategy of expanding market penetration of VF-owned brands, we may enter into licensing agreements for specific
apparel and complementary product categories if such arrangements with independent parties can provide more effective manufacturing, distribution and marketing of such products than could be achieved internally. We provide support to these business
partners and ensure the integrity of our brand names by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of licensed products.

Licensing arrangements relate to a broad range of VF brands. License agreements are for fixed terms of generally
three to five years, with conditional renewal options. Each licensee pays royalties to VF based on its sales of licensed products, with most agreements providing for a minimum royalty requirement. Royalties generally range from 4% to 10% of the
licensing partners’ net licensed products sales. Royalty income was $113.8 million in 2012 (1% of total revenues), primarily from theNautica®,Vans®,Timberland®, The North Face®,Lee®,,Rock & Republic®,andWrangler®brands. In addition, licensees of our brands are generally required to spend from 1% to 5% of their net licensed product sales to advertise VF’s products. In some cases, these advertising amounts are remitted to VF for advertising on behalf
of the licensees.

VF has also entered into license agreements to use trademarks owned by third parties. We market
apparel under licenses granted by Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc., major colleges and universities, and individual athletes and
related organizations, most of which contain minimum annual royalty and advertising requirements.

Manufacturing, Sourcing and Distribution

Product design, fit, fabric, finish and quality are important in all of our businesses. These functions are performed by
employees located in our global supply chain organization and our branded business units across the globe.






VF’s centralized global supply chain organization is responsible for sourcing and
delivering products to our customers. VF is highly skilled in managing the complexities associated with our global supply chain. On an annual basis, VF sources or produces approximately 450 million units spread across 36 brands. VF operates 29
manufacturing facilities and utilizes approximately 1,900 contractor manufacturing facilities in 60 countries. We operate 29 distribution centers and 1,129 retail stores. Managing this complexity is made possible by the use of a network of
information systems for product development, forecasting, order management and warehouse management, attached to our core enterprise resource management platforms.

In 2012, 28% of our units were manufactured in VF-operated facilities and 72% were obtained from independent contractors, primarily in Asia. Products manufactured in VF facilities generally have a lower
cost and shorter lead times than contracted production. Products obtained from contractors in the Western Hemisphere generally have a higher cost than products obtained from contractors in Asia. But contracting in the Western Hemisphere gives us
greater flexibility, shorter lead times and allows for lower inventory levels. This combination of VF-owned and contracted production, along with different geographic regions and cost structures, provides a well-balanced approach to product
sourcing. We will continue to manage our supply chain from a global perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global production environment.

VF operates manufacturing facilities in Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe and the Middle East. A significant percentage of denim bottoms and occupational apparel are manufactured in
these plants, as well as a smaller percentage of footwear. For these owned production facilities, we purchase raw materials from numerous domestic and international suppliers to meet our production needs. Raw materials include products made from
cotton, leather, rubber, wool, synthetics and blends of cotton and synthetic yarn, as well as thread and trim (product identification, buttons, zippers, snaps, eyelets and laces). In some instances, we contract the sewing of VF-owned raw materials
into finished product with independent contractors. Manufacturing in the United States includes all Major League Baseball uniforms, along with screen printing and embroidery of jerseys, T-shirts and fleece products. Fixed price commitments for
fabric and certain supplies are generally set on a quarterly basis for the next quarter’s purchases. No single supplier represents more than 5% of our total cost of sales.

Independent contractors generally own the raw materials and ship finished ready-for-sale products to VF. These contractors are engaged
through VF sourcing hubs in Hong Kong (with satellite offices across Asia) and Panama. These hubs are responsible for coordinating the manufacturing and procurement of product, supplier management, product quality assurance, and transportation and
shipping functions in the Eastern and Western Hemispheres, respectively. Substantially all products in the Outdoor & Action Sports and Sportswear Coalitions, as well as a portion of products for our Jeanswear and Imagewear Coalitions, are
obtained through these sourcing hubs. For most products in our Contemporary Brands Coalition, we contract the sewing and finishing of VF-owned raw materials through a network of independent contractors based in the United States.

Management continually monitors political risks and developments related to duties, tariffs and quotas. We limit VF’s sourcing
exposure through, among other measures, (i) diversifying geographies with a mix of VF-operated and contracted production, (ii) shifting of production among countries and contractors, (iii) sourcing production to merchandise categories
where product is readily available and (iv) sourcing from countries with tariff preference and free trade agreements. VF does not directly or indirectly source products from suppliers in countries identified by the State Department as state
sponsors of terrorism and subject to U.S. economic sanctions and export controls.

All VF-operated production facilities
throughout the world, as well as all independent contractor facilities that manufacture VF-branded products, must comply with VF’s Global Compliance Principles. These principles, established in 1997 and consistent with international labor
standards, are a set of strict standards covering legal and ethical business practices, workers’ ages, work hours, health and safety conditions, environmental standards, and compliance with local laws and regulations. In addition, our owned
factories must also undergo certification by the independent, nonprofit organization, Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (“WRAP”), which






promotes global ethics in manufacturing. VF, through its contractor monitoring program, audits the activities of the independent businesses and contractors that produce VF-branded goods at
locations across the globe. Each of the approximately 1,900 independent contractor facilities, including those serving our independent licensees, must be pre-certified before producing any VF products. This precertification includes passing a
factory inspection and signing a VF Terms of Engagement agreement. We maintain an ongoing audit program to ensure compliance with these requirements by using dedicated internal staff and externally contracted firms. Additional information about
VF’s Code of Business Conduct, Global Compliance Principles, Terms of Engagement, Factory Compliance Guidelines, Factory Audit Procedure and Environmental Compliance Guidelines, along with a Global Compliance Report, is available on the VF
website at www.vfc.com.

VF did not experience difficulty in filling its raw material and contracting production needs during
2012 and does not anticipate any difficulty in 2013. We believe that we will be able to remain cost competitive in 2013 due to our scale and significance to our suppliers. Absent any material changes, VF believes it would be able to largely offset
any increases in product costs through: (i) the continuing shift in the mix of its business to higher margin brands, geographies and channels of distribution; (ii) increases in the prices of its products; and (iii) cost reduction
opportunities. The loss of any one supplier or contractor would not have a significant adverse effect on our business.

Product is shipped from our independent suppliers and VF-operated manufacturing facilities to distribution centers in the United States
and international locations. In some instances, product is shipped directly to our customers. Most distribution centers are operated by VF, and some support more than one brand. A portion of our distribution needs are met by contract distribution
centers.

Seasonality

VF’s operating results vary from quarter-to-quarter throughout the year due to the differing sales patterns of our individual businesses. On a quarterly basis, consolidated total revenues for 2012
ranged from a low of 20% of full year revenues in the second quarter to a high of 29% in the third quarter, while consolidated operating income ranged from a low of 11% in the second quarter to a high of 37% in the third quarter. This variation
results primarily from the seasonal influences on revenues of our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition, where 18% of the Coalition’s revenues occurred in the second quarter and 32% in the third quarter of 2012. With changes in our mix of
business and growth of our retail operations, historical quarterly revenue and profit trends may not be indicative of future trends. We expect the portion of annual revenues and profits occurring in the second half of the year to continue to
increase.

Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working capital increases during the first half of the year
as inventory builds to support peak shipping periods and then decreases during the second half of the year as those inventories are sold and accounts receivable are collected. Cash provided by operating activities is substantially higher in the
second half of the year due to higher net income during that period and reduced working capital requirements, particularly during the fourth quarter.

Advertising and Customer Support

During 2012, our advertising and
promotion spending was $574.6 million, representing 5.3% of net sales. We advertise in consumer and trade publications, on radio and television, and through digital initiatives including social media, mobile platforms and the Internet. We also
participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with major retailers in print media, radio and television. We sponsor sporting, musical and special events, as well as athletes and personalities who promote our products. We employ
marketing sciences to optimize the impact of advertising and promotional spending and to identify the types of spending that provide the greatest return on our marketing investments.

We provide advertising support to our wholesale customers in the form of point-of-sale fixtures and signage to enhance the presentation
and brand image of our products. We also participate in shop-in-shops and






concession arrangements, which are separate sales areas dedicated to a specific VF brand within our customers’ stores, to help differentiate and enhance the presentation of our products.

We participate in incentive programs with our retailer customers, including discounts, allowances and cooperative advertising
funds. We also offer sales incentive programs directly to consumers in the form of rebate and coupon offers.

In addition to sponsorships and activities that directly benefit our products and brands, VF and its associates actively support our communities and various charities. For example,The North Face®brand has committed to programs that encourage and enable outdoor participation, such asPlanet Explore®(www.planetexplore.com), theNever Stop Exploring®Award, and theExplore Your
ParksTMprogram. TheTimberland®brand has a heritage of volunteerism, including thePath of Service™ program that offers full-time
employees up to 40 hours of paid time off a year to serve their local communities. TheTimberland®brand
also sponsors two annual global service events, Earth Day in the spring and Serv-a-palooza in the fall, when employees provide assistance to local communities through various volunteer efforts. TheNautica®brand supports Oceana, a not-for-profit organization focused on ocean conservation. In addition, 2012 marked the
seventeenth year of support forLee National Denim Day®, one of the country’s largest single-day
fund-raisers for breast cancer that has raised over $88 million since its inception to fight breast cancer. VF also supports company-wide sustainability efforts, and recognizes the “VF 100” to honor the 100 VF associates worldwide having
the highest number of volunteer service hours during the year.

Other Matters

Competitive Factors

Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer demand for VF’s brands and products. VF is well-positioned to compete in the apparel industry by developing high quality innovative products
at competitive prices that meet consumer needs, providing high service levels, ensuring the right products are on the retail sales floor to meet consumer demand, investing significant amounts behind existing brands, and continuing to evaluate the
potential for acquiring additional brands. We continually strive to improve in each of these areas. Many of VF’s brands have long histories and enjoy strong recognition within their respective consumer segments.

Trademarks

Trademarks, patents and domain names, as well as related logos, designs and graphics, provide substantial value in the marketing of VF’s products and are important to our continued success. We have
registered this intellectual property in the United States and in other countries where our products are manufactured and/or sold. We vigorously monitor and enforce VF’s intellectual property against counterfeiting, infringement and violations
of other rights where and to the extent legal, feasible and appropriate. In addition, we grant licenses to other parties to manufacture and sell products utilizing our intellectual property in product categories and geographic areas in which VF does
not operate.

Customers

VF products are primarily sold on a wholesale basis to specialty stores, department stores, national chains and mass merchants. In addition, we sell products on a direct-to-consumer basis through
VF-operated stores and e-commerce sites, which accounted for 21% of our total revenues in 2012. Our sales in international markets are growing and represented 37% of our total revenues in 2012, the majority of which were in Europe.

Sales to VF’s ten largest customers, all of which are retailers based in the United States, amounted to 21% of total revenues in
2012, 23% in 2011 and 26% in 2010. Sales to the five largest customers amounted to approximately 16% of total revenues in 2012, 18% in 2011, and 21% in 2010. Sales to VF’s largest customer,






Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., totaled 8% of total revenues in 2012, 9% in 2011 and 10% in 2010, the majority of which were in the Jeanswear coalition.

Employees

VF had approximately 57,000 employees at the end of 2012, of which approximately 25,000 were located in the United States. Approximately 630 employees in the United States are covered by collective
bargaining agreements. In international markets, a significant percentage of employees are covered by trade-sponsored or governmental bargaining arrangements. Employee relations are considered to be good.

Backlog

The dollar amount of VF’s order backlog as of any date is not meaningful, may not be indicative of actual future shipments and, accordingly, is not material for an understanding of the business of VF
taken as a whole.

Executive Officers of VF

The following are the executive officers of VF Corporation as of February 27, 2013. The executive officers are generally elected annually and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. There is
no family relationship among any of the VF Corporation executive officers.

Eric C. Wiseman, 57, is
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of VF. He has held these roles since August 2008, January 2008 and March 2006, respectively. He has been a Director of VF since October 2006. He has held a progression of leadership
roles with VF since 1995.

Robert K. Shearer, 61, has been Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of VF since 2005. He served as Vice President – Finance and Chief Financial Officer from 1998 to 2005, Vice President – Controller from 1994 to 1998, Controller from 1989 to 1994, and Assistant Controller from 1986 to
1989.

Scott H. Baxter, 48,has been Group Vice President for the Jeanswear Americas & Imagewear
Coalitions since 2011. He served as President of the Imagewear Coalition, composed of both the Image and Licensed Sports group businesses, from 2008 to 2011, and President of the Licensed Sports Group from 2007 to 2008.

Michael T. Gannaway, 61, has been Vice President – VF Direct/Customer Teams since 2008. He served as Vice
President – Customer Management from 2004 to 2008.

Laura C. Meagher, 52, has been Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary since 2012. She served as Vice President – Deputy General Counsel from 2008 to 2012, and Assistant General Counsel from 2004 to 2008.

Steve E. Rendle, 53, has been Group Vice President for the Outdoor & Action Sports
Americas Coalition since 2011. He served as President of VF’s Outdoor Americas businesses from 2009 to 2011, President ofThe North Face®brand from 2004 to 2009 and Vice President of Sales ofThe North Face®brand from 1999 to 2004.

Scott
A. Roe, 48, has been Vice President – Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of VF since February 2013. He served as Vice President – Finance of VF from 2012 to 2013, as Vice President – Chief Financial Officer of
VF International from 2006 to 2012, and as Vice President – Chief Financial Officer of VF’s former intimate apparel business from 2002 to 2006. He joined VF in 1996.

Karl Heinz Salzburger, 55, has been Vice President of VF and President – VF International since
2009. He became President of VF’s European, Middle East, Africa and Asian operations in September 2006. He served as President of VF’s international outdoor businesses from 2001. He joined VF with the acquisition ofThe North Face®brand in 2000.






Additional information is included under the caption “Election of Directors” in
VF’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 23, 2013 (“2013 Proxy Statement”) that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of our
fiscal year ended December 29, 2012, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration statements and other filings that VF has filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”), including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are available
free of charge from the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) and public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 and on VF’s website at www.vfc.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic
filing of the material with the SEC. Copies of these reports may also be obtained free of charge upon written request to the Secretary of VF Corporation, P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420. Information on the operation of the public reference room
can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The following corporate governance documents can be accessed on
VF’s website: VF’s Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee. Copies of these documents
also may be obtained by any shareholder free of charge upon written request to the Secretary of VF Corporation, P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420.

After VF’s 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, VF intends to file with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the certification regarding VF’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate
governance listing standards as required by NYSE Rule 303A.12. Last year, VF filed this certification with the NYSE on May 10, 2012.

