Item 1.Business.



V.F. Corporation, organized in 1899, is a worldwide leader in
    branded lifestyle apparel and related products. Unless the
    context indicates otherwise, the terms “VF,”
    “we,” “us” and “our” used herein
    refer to V.F. Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Our
    stated vision is: VF will grow by building lifestyle brands that
    excite consumers around the world.



For over 100 years, VF has grown by offering consumers high
    quality, high value branded apparel and related products. In
    recent years, we have been implementing a growth plan that is
    transforming VF’s mix of business to include more lifestyle
    brands. Lifestyle brands are those brands that connect closely
    with consumers because they are aspirational and inspirational;
    they reflect consumers’ specific activities and interests.
    Lifestyle brands generally extend across multiple product
    categories and have higher than average gross margins.
    Accordingly, this transformation has included the acquisitions
    of growing lifestyle brands, such asVans®,Reef®,Kipling®,Napapijri®,7 For All
    Mankind®,Splendid®andElla
    Moss®.

    At the same time, we have continued to invest in our other
    businesses through product line extensions, geographic expansion
    particularly in Asia, new retail store openings, product
    innovation, consumer research and other marketing initiatives.
    In addition, an important step in VF’s transformation was
    the sale in 2007 of our women’s imtimate apparel business,
    which had over $800 million in revenues but lower profit
    and growth prospects.



VF is a highly diversified apparel company — across
    brands, product categories, channels of distribution and
    geographies. VF owns a broad portfolio of brands in the
    jeanswear, outerwear, packs, footwear, sportswear and
    occupational apparel categories. These products are marketed to
    consumers shopping in specialty stores, upscale and traditional
    department stores, national chains and mass merchants. A growing
    portion of our revenues, currently 17%, are derived from sales
    directly to consumers through VF-operated retail stores and
    internet sites. A global company, VF derives 30% of its revenues
    from outside the United States, primarily in Europe, Asia,
    Canada and Latin America. VF products are also sold in some
    countries through licensees and distributors. To provide many
    types of products across numerous channels of distribution in
    different geographic areas, we balance efficient and flexible
    internally-owned manufacturing with sourcing of finished goods
    from independent contractors. We utilizestate-of-the-arttechnologies for inventory replenishment that enable us to get
    consumer-right products, on time, to our customers’ shelves.



VF’s businesses are organized primarily into product
    categories, and by brands within those categories, for both
    management and internal financial reporting purposes. These
    groupings of businesses are called “coalitions” and
    consist of the following: Outdoor & Action Sports,
    Jeanswear, Imagewear, Sportswear and Contemporary Brands. These
    coalitions are our reportable segments for financial reporting
    purposes. Coalition management has responsibility to build their
    brands, with certain financial, administrative and systems
    support and disciplines provided by consolidated functions
    within VF.



We consider our Outdoor & Action Sports, Sportswear
    and Contemporary Brands coalitions to be our lifestyle
    coalitions, with the potential to achieve higher long-term
    revenue and profit growth than our other businesses. Our
    Jeanswear and Imagewear coalitions are our heritage businesses
    where our focus is on maintaining our historically strong levels
    of profitability and cash flows but with lower revenue growth.






The following table summarizes VF’s primary owned and
    licensed brands by coalition:



CoalitionPrimary BrandsPrimary ProductsOutdoor & Action SportsThe North
    Face®performance-oriented apparel, footwear, outdoor gearVans®skateboard-inspired footwear, apparelJanSport®backpacks, luggage, apparelEastpak®backpacks, apparelKipling®handbags, luggage, backpacks, accessories (except in North
    America)Napapijri®premium outdoor apparelReef®surf-inspired footwear, apparelEagle
    Creek®luggage, packs, travel accessoriesJeanswearWrangler®denim and casual bottoms, topsWrangler
    Hero®denim bottomsLee®denim and casual bottoms, topsRiders®denim and casual bottoms, topsRustler®denim and casual bottoms, topsTimber Creek by
    Wrangler®casual bottoms, topsImagewearRed
    Kap®occupational apparelBulwark®occupational apparelMajestic®athletic apparelMLB®(licensed)licensed athletic apparelNFL®(licensed)licensed athletic apparelHarley-Davidson®(licensed)licensed apparelSportswearNautica®men’s fashion sportswear, denim bottoms, sleepwear,
    accessoriesKipling®handbags, luggage, backpacks, accessories (in North America)Contemporary Brands7 For All
    Mankind®premium denim bottoms, sportswearJohn
    Varvatos®luxury men’s apparel, footwear, accessoriesSplendid®premium women’s sportswearElla
    Moss®premium women’s sportswearlucy®women’s activewear





Financial information regarding VF’s coalitions, as well as
    geographic information, are included in Note R to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included at
    Item 8 of this report.



Outdoor &
    Action Sports Coalition



Our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition, VF’s
    fastest growing business, is a group of outdoor and
    activity-based businesses that represent a collection of
    lifestyle brands. Product offerings include outerwear,
    sportswear, footwear, equipment, backpacks, daypacks, luggage
    and accessories.



The North
    Face®is our largest Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition
    brand. Its high performance outdoor apparel, equipment and
    footwear are sold across North and South America, Europe and
    Asia. (In Japan and South Korea,The North
    Face®trademarks are owned by a third party.)The North
    Face®apparel lines consist of outerwear, snow sports gear and
    functional sportswear and footwear for men, women and children.
    Its equipment line consists of tents, sleeping bags, backpacks,
    daypacks and accessories. Many ofThe North
    Face®products are






designed for extreme applications, such as high altitude
    mountaineering and ice and rock climbing, although many
    consumers also purchase these products because they represent a
    lifestyle to which they aspire.The North
    Face®products are marketed through specialty outdoor and premium
    sporting goods stores in the United States, Canada, Europe and
    Asia and select department stores in the United States. In
    addition, these products are sold through over 50 VF-operated
    full price retail and outlet stores in the United States and
    Europe and online at www.thenorthface.com. The brand is also
    sold through over 250The North
    Face®retail stores operated by independent third parties dedicated to
    sellingThe North
    Face®products in Europe and Asia.



VF manufactures and marketsVans®performance and casual footwear and apparel for skateboard,
    bicycle motocross (“BMX”), surf and snow sports
    participants and enthusiasts. Products are sold on a wholesale
    basis through national chain stores in the United States and
    through skate and surf shops and specialty stores in the United
    States, Canada, Europe and Asia. The brand’s products are
    also sold through over 200 ownedVans®full-price retail and outlet stores primarily in the western
    United States and in key European markets. These retail stores
    carry a wide variety ofVans®footwear, along with a growing assortment of apparel and
    accessory items, most of which bear theVans®trademarks. TheVans®brand is marketed through a 50%-owned joint venture in Mexico.
    TheVans®brand has been recognized as part of “The
    Facebook®50,” a ranking of brands developed bySlatemagazine’sThe Big Moneywebsite that are making
    the best use of the social networking site,Facebook®.

    VF is the 70% owner of theVans Warped
    Tour®music festival, which presents over 50 alternative rock and
    heavy metal bands in performances in over 40 cities across
    North America each summer.



JanSport®backpacks, duffel bags, luggage and accessories are sold through
    department, office supply and national chain stores, as well as
    sports specialty stores and college bookstores in the United
    States.JanSport®daypacks have a leading market share in the United States. A
    technical line ofJanSport®backpacks is sold through outdoor and sporting goods stores.JanSport®fleece and T-shirts imprinted with college logos are sold
    through college bookstores and department stores in the United
    States. In Europe,Eastpak®andJanSport®backpacks and a line ofEastpak®clothing are sold primarily through department and specialty
    stores, where theEastpak®brand is the leading backpack brand. TheJanSport®andEastpak®brands are also marketed throughout Asia by licensees and
    distributors.Eagle
    Creek®adventure travel gear products include luggage, daypacks and
    accessories sold through specialty luggage stores, outdoor
    stores and department stores throughout the United States and
    Europe.



Derived from the Finnish word for Arctic Circle, theNapapijri®brand offers premium-priced performance skiwear and
    outdoor-inspired casual outerwear, sportswear and accessories
    for men, women and children. TheNapapijri®brand enjoys especially strong consumer awareness in Italy,
    where it was created, and is expanding across Europe. Products
    are sold on a wholesale basis primarily to European specialty
    shops, such as sport stores and fashion boutiques, and through
    VF-operated and independently-operated retail stores in several
    countries in Europe. TheNapapijri®brand is marketed through a majority-owned joint venture in
    Japan.



Kipling®handbags, shoulder bags, backpacks, luggage and accessories are
    stylish, colorful and fun products that are both practical and
    durable. The brand name comes from the author ofThe Jungle
    Book, Rudyard Kipling, and that provides the connection to
    theKipling®monkey mascot, which symbolizes fun and adventure. A colorful
    monkey key ring is attached to every bag, with a different
    monkey design for each product collection. Products are sold
    through specialty and department stores in Europe, Asia and
    South America, as well as through over 30 VF-operated and over
    175 independently-operated retail stores. TheKipling®business in North America is managed as part of the Sportswear
    Coalition.



TheReef®brand of surf-inspired products includes sandals, shoes,
    swimwear and other casual apparel and accessories for men, women
    and children. Products are marketed primarily to surf shops,
    sporting goods and specialty chains, and department stores in
    the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. In recent years, we
    have expanded theReef®brand’s presence by acquiring rights previously held by
    independent distributors to marketReef®products in Europe and Canada.



We expect continued long-term growth in our Outdoor &
    Action Sports Coalition as we extend our brands into new product
    categories, open additional retail stores, expand geographically
    and acquire additional outdoor or activity-based lifestyle
    brands. Also, beginning in 2010, responsibility for thelucy®brand has been moved to this Coalition. Specifically, management
    of theThe North
    Face®andlucy®business units will work closely together to better leverage
    VF’s activity-based product development and retail
    operations experience.






Jeanswear
    Coalition



Our Jeanswear Coalition markets jeanswear and related casual
    products in the United States and in many international markets.
    The largest of these brands, theLee®andWrangler®brands, have long-standing traditions as authentic American
    jeans brands as they were established in 1889 and 1947,
    respectively, and have strong market positions.Lee®andWrangler®products are sold in nearly every developed country. Products
    also include shorts, casual pants, knit and woven tops and
    outerwear, which are designed to complement the jeanswear
    products and have helped to extend our brands.



In domestic markets,Lee®products are sold primarily through national chain stores and
    specialty stores.Wrangler®westernwear is marketed through western specialty stores. TheWrangler
    Hero®,Rustler®andRiders®brands are marketed to mass merchant and regional discount
    stores. Based on available data, we believe our key brands have
    been gaining market share despite significant competitive
    activity. Including all of its jeanswear brands, we believe that
    VF has the largest unit market share of jeans in the United
    States and is one of the largest marketers of jeans in the
    world. We also market cotton casual pants under theLee
    Casuals®,Timber Creek by
    Wrangler®andWrangler®Khakis brands.



Our vendor-managed inventory and retail floor space management
    programs with several of our major retailer customers give us a
    competitive advantage in our domestic jeanswear business. We
    receivepoint-of-saleinformation from these customers on a daily basis, on an
    individual store and style-size-color stockkeeping unit
    (“SKU”) level. We then ship products based on that
    customer data to ensure their selling floors are appropriately
    stocked with products that match their shoppers’ needs. Our
    systems capabilities allow us to analyze our retail
    customer’s sales, demographic and geographic data to
    develop product assortment recommendations that maximize the
    productivity of their jeanswear selling space and minimize their
    investment in inventory.



Jeanswear in most international markets is more fashion-oriented
    and has a higher selling price than similar products in the
    United States. The jeans market internationally is also more
    fragmented than in the United States, with competitors ranging
    from global brands to a number of smaller brands marketed in a
    specific country or region.



VF’s largest international jeanswear business is located in
    Western Europe.Lee®andWrangler®jeanswear products are sold through department stores and
    specialty stores where we employ some of the same retail floor
    space management programs described above. We also marketLee®andWrangler®products to mass market and specialty stores in Canada and
    Mexico, as well as to department stores and specialty stores in
    Asia and South America. In many international markets, we are
    expanding our reach through VF-operated retail stores, which are
    an important vehicle for presenting our brands’ image and
    marketing message directly to consumers. We are continuing to
    expand our jeanswear brands in emerging markets, such as China
    and through our majority-owned joint venture in India. In
    foreign markets where VF does not have owned operations,Lee®andWrangler®jeanswear and related products are marketed through
    distributors, agents or licensees.Lee®andWrangler®products are sold in over 500 independently operated mostly
    monobrand retail stores, primarily in Eastern Europe and Asia.



In the United States, we believe our Jeanswear Coalition is
    growing its jeans market share in the mass market and national
    chain channels of distribution through superior consumer insight
    and marketing strategies and continuous product innovation. In
    our international businesses, growth will be driven by expansion
    of our existing business in Asia where we have averaged in
    excess of 25% growth per year over the last three years.



Imagewear
    Coalition



Our Imagewear Coalition consists of the Image division
    (occupational apparel and uniforms) and the Licensed Sports
    division (owned and licensed high profile sports and lifestyle
    apparel). Each division represents approximately one-half of
    Coalition revenues.



The Image division provides uniforms and career occupational
    apparel for workers in North America and internationally,
    primarily in Europe, under theRed
    Kap®brand (a premium workwear brand with more than 75 years of
    history), theBulwark®brand (flame resistant and protective apparel primarily for the
    petrochemical, utility and mining industries), theThe
    Force®brand (apparel for law enforcement and public safety personnel)
    and theChef
    Designstmbrand (apparel for restaurant and food service staff). Products
    include work pants, slacks, work shirts, overalls, jackets and
    smocks. Image division revenues are significantly affected by
    the overall level of U.S. industrial and service
    employment, which has been declining for the last two years.
    Approximately two-thirds






of Image division sales are to industrial laundries, resellers
    and distributors that in turn supply customized workwear to
    employers foron-the-jobwear by production, service and white-collar personnel. Since
    industrial laundries and uniform distributors maintain minimal
    inventories of work clothes, VF’s ability to offer rapid
    delivery of products in a broad range of sizes is an important
    factor in this market. Our commitment to customer service,
    supported by an automated central distribution center with
    several satellite locations, enables customer orders to be
    filled within 24 to 48 hours of receipt and has helped theRed
    Kap®andBulwark®brands obtain a significant share of uniform apparel sold to
    laundries, resellers and other distributors.



The Image division also develops and manages uniform programs
    through custom-designed websites for major business customers
    (e.g., FedEx Corporation, AT&T, Air Canada, Continental
    Airlines and American Airlines) and governmental organizations
    (e.g., U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Fire Department
    of New York City, Transportation Security Administration,
    National Park Service and New York City Transit Authority).
    These websites give employees of these customers the convenience
    of shopping for their work and career apparel via the internet.
    This division is the nation’s largest supplier of
    nonmilitary apparel to the U.S. government.



In the Licensed Sports division, we design and market sports
    apparel and fanwear under licenses granted by the major sports
    leagues, individual athletes and related organizations,
    including Major League Baseball, the National Football League,
    the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League,
    NASCAR, MLB Players Association, and many major colleges and
    universities. Under license from Major League Baseball,Majestic®brand uniforms are worn exclusively on-field by all 30 major
    league teams.Majestic®brand adult and youth-size authentic, replica jersey and casual
    fanwear are sold through sporting goods and athletic specialty
    stores, department stores and major league stadiums. Adult and
    youth sports apparel products marketed under other licensed
    labels are distributed through department, mass market, sporting
    goods and athletic specialty stores. In addition, the Licensed
    Sports division is a major supplier of licensedHarley-Davidson®apparel marketed to Harley-Davidson dealerships. With the
    exception of the Major League Baseball license, loss of any
    license would not have a material effect on the Imagewear
    Coalition.



The opportunities to grow our Imagewear Coalition revenues
    include (i) extension of its product and service
    capabilities into new industrial and service apparel markets,
    (ii) growth of itsMajestic®brand for Major League Baseball and growth of our National
    Football League business through rights for additional apparel
    categories and new channels of distribution, (iii) market
    share gains in key licensed categories and (iv) extension
    of VF’s floor space management and replenishment
    capabilities to more retail doors, placing product-right
    assortments on the sales floor in each geographic market.



Sportswear
    Coalition



TheNautica®brand is the principal lifestyle brand of the Sportswear
    Coalition.Nautica®men’s sportswear, noted for its classic styling, is
    marketed through department stores and VF-operated outlet stores
    in better outlet centers. TheNautica Jeans
    Company®line features fashionable jeanswear and related tops for younger
    male consumers. We believe theNautica®brand is the number two men’s sportswear collection brand
    in department stores. This retail channel has undergone
    significant consolidation in the last few years, resulting in
    numerous store closings, which has negatively impacted sales ofNautica®brand products. OtherNautica®product lines include men’s outerwear, underwear and
    swimwear and men’s and women’s sleepwear.Nautica®women’s sportswear is marketed in the United States at mostNautica®outlet stores and at www.nautica.com.



The Sportswear Coalition operates over 100Nautica®retail outlet stores in better outlet malls across the United
    States. These stores carryNautica®merchandise for men, women, boys, girls and infants. The product
    styles sold in the outlet stores are different from theNautica®styles sold to department and specialty store wholesale
    customers. These outlet stores also carryNautica®merchandise from licensees to complete their product assortment.
    In addition, independent licensees operate over 150Nautica®brand retail stores across the world.



TheNautica®brand is licensed to independent parties in the United States
    for apparel categories not produced by VF (e.g., tailored
    clothing, dress shirts, neckwear, women’s swimwear,
    children’s clothing, and accessories such as fragrances,
    watches and eyewear) and for nonapparel categories (e.g., bed
    and bath linens and accessories).Nautica®products are licensed for sale in over 60 countries outside the
    United States. Our licensees’ wholesale sales ofNautica®licensed products total approximately $400 million annually.






The Sportswear Coalition also includes theKipling®business in North America. Products includeKipling®brand handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and accessories.
    Beginning in 2010,Kipling®handbags and accessories in the department store channel in the
    United States will be sold exclusively through Macy’s
    department stores. In addition, all product categories are sold
    in the United States through specialty luggage and bag stores,
    VF-operated retail stores and www.kipling.com and in Canada
    through specialty and department stores. About two-thirds of
    products sold in the United States are the same as those sold in
    Europe and other parts of the world, with the remainder designed
    for the U.S. market only.



We believe there is potential to improveNautica®brand revenue and profit performance through more accessible
    price points, store growth in existingNautica®retail outlet stores, growth in our online business and
    expansion of the licensed business internationally, particularly
    in Asia. There is also potential for expansion of ourKipling®brand through our handbags and accessories relationship with
    Macy’s, Inc.



Contemporary
    Brands Coalition



Our Contemporary Brands Coalition is focused on premium-priced
    lifestyle brands. Formed in August 2007, the coalition was
    originally composed of the7 For All
    Mankind®andlucy®brands. During 2009, the Coalition was expanded to include theJohn
    Varvatos®brand (previously part of the Sportswear Coalition), which
    shares many product, customer and supply chain characteristics
    of the other Contemporary Brands businesses, and theSplendid®andElla
    Moss®brands, which were acquired during the year.



7 For All
    Mankind

®

7 For All
    Mankind

®

Advertising
    Age

7 For All
    Mankind

®

direct-to-consumer

e-commerce,



TheJohn
    Varvatos®brand is a luxury apparel and accessories collection for men,
    including tailored clothing, sportswear, footwear and
    accessories. TheJohn Varvatos*USA®line of tailored clothing, sportswear, footwear and accessories
    is designed to appeal to a younger consumer at somewhat more
    accessible price points. Products are sold through upscale
    department and specialty stores, primarily in the United States,
    several VF-operatedJohn
    Varvatos®retail locations and online at www.johnvarvatos.com. This
    business is 80% owned by VF, with the balance owned by
    Mr. John Varvatos.



In March 2009, VF completed the acquisition of Mo Industries
    Holdings, Inc., owner of theSplendid®andElla
    Moss®brands of women’s premium sportswear. These brands are
    marketed to upscale department and specialty stores primarily in
    the United States. VF had acquired one-third of the outstanding
    equity of Mo Industries in June 2008. The firstSplendid®retail store was opened in 2009. A limited number ofSplendid®andElla
    Moss®stores are planned for 2010, along with several newshop-in-shopsin major retail accounts.



Thelucy®brand of women’s lifestyle apparel is marketed through
    approximately 60lucy®branded retail stores across the United States and via the
    internet at www.lucy.com.lucy®is an authentic activewear brand designed for versatility,
    comfort and fit that can be worn by today’s active woman
    from workout to weekend. Thelucy®retail stores emphasize the brand’s four core types of
    activity-based apparel — yoga, gym, running and
    outdoor adventure. Over 90% of the products in thelucy®retail stores arelucy®branded, with most of the balance being complementary VF brands,
    including a limited selection ofThe North
    Face®apparel. Beginning in 2010, thelucy®






business unit will become part of the Outdoor & Action
    Sports Coalition. Thelucy®brand shares attributes of our outdoor brands and will benefit
    from shared expertise in technical performance fabrics and
    product innovation.



During 2009, premium apparel sales were severely impacted by the
    recession, with many consumers significantly reducing spending
    for luxury goods, which has led to sharply lower same store
    sales comparisons in the upscale department store channel and
    the closing of a significant number of specialty shops. In 2010,
    we expect to see our Contemporary Brands businesses grow their
    revenues through additional retail and international expansion
    and product line extensions.



Direct-To-ConsumerOperations



VF-operated retail stores are an integral part of our strategy
    for growing VF’s brands, particularly our lifestyle brands.
    Our full price retail stores allow us to showcase a brand’s
    full line of current season products, with fixtures and imagery
    that support the brand’s positioning. These stores provide
    high visibility for our brands and products and enable us to
    stay close to the needs and preferences of consumers. The proper
    presentation of products in our retail stores also helps to
    increase consumer purchases of VF products sold through our
    wholesale customers. VF-operated full price retail stores
    generally provide operating margins that are equal to or above
    VF averages and a return on investment above VF averages. In
    addition, VF operates outlet stores in both upscale outlet malls
    and in more traditional value-based locations. These outlet
    stores serve an important role in our overall inventory
    management by allowing VF to effectively sell a significant
    portion of excess, discontinued andout-of-seasonproducts at better prices than are otherwise available from
    outside parties, while maintaining the integrity of our brands.



Our growing global retail operations include 757 stores at the
    end of 2009. Of that total, there are 681 monobrand stores
    (i.e., primarily one brand’s products offered in each
    store) that sellThe North
    Face®,Vans®,Nautica®,7 For All
    Mankind®,lucy®,Lee®,Wrangler®and other products. Approximately three-fourths of these stores
    offer products at full price, with the remainder being outlet
    locations offering excess, discontinued andout-of-seasonproducts at discounted prices. In addition to the monobrand
    retail and outlet stores, we operate 76 VF Outlet stores across
    the United States that sell a broad selection of excess
    quantities of VF-branded products, as well as women’s
    intimate apparel, childrenswear, other apparel and accessories.
    Approximately three-fourths of the VF-operated retail stores are
    located in the United States. The remaining stores are located
    in Europe, Latin America and Asia.



Across the globe, internet sales (i.e.,e-commerce)comprise a small but growing portion of total retail sales of
    apparel, footwear and accessories.E-commercesales of apparel and footwear have become the second largest
    category ofe-commercepurchases in the United States (behind travel purchases). At VF,e-commerceis a growing portion of our revenues as we currently marketThe North
    Face®,Vans®,Lee®,7 For All
    Mankind®,lucy®,Nautica®,Kipling®and other brands online in the United States, plusThe North
    Face®and other brands across Europe. Additionale-commercesites will be rolled out for consumers in 2010.



Total retail store ande-commercesales accounted for 17% of VF’s consolidated Total Revenues
    in 2009 and 16% in 2008. We expect ourdirect-to-consumerbusiness to continue to grow at a faster pace than VF’s
    overall growth rate as we continue opening retail stores and
    expanding oure-commercepresence for our lifestyle brands. During 2009, we opened 90
    retail stores. For 2010, capital investments of approximately
    $60 million are planned for leasehold improvements,
    fixtures and equipment for approximately80-90new
    retail locations, concentrated where we see higher growth
    potential —Vans®,The North
    Face®,7 For All
    Mankind®and international.



In addition to thedirect-to-consumervenues operated by VF, our licensees, distributors and other
    independent parties operate over 1,300 primarily monobrand
    retail stores dedicated to our brands. These stores —
    located primarily in Eastern Europe and Asia and focused onThe North
    Face®,Kipling®,Nautica®,Lee®andWrangler®brands — have the appearance of VF-operated retail
    stores.



Licensing
    Arrangements



As part of our business strategy of expanding market penetration
    of VF-owned brands, we enter into licensing agreements for our
    brands for specific apparel and complementary product categories
    in identified geographic






regions if such arrangements with independent parties can
    provide more effective manufacturing, distribution and marketing
    of such products than could be achieved internally. These
    licensing arrangements relate to a broad range of VF brands and
    are for fixed terms of generally five years, with conditional
    renewal options. Each licensee pays royalties to VF based on its
    sales of licensed products, with most agreements providing for a
    minimum royalty requirement. Royalties generally range from 5%
    to 7% of the licensing partners’ net sales of licensed
    products. Gross Royalty Income was $77.2 million in 2009,
    with the largest contribution from theNautica®brand.



In addition, licensees of our brands are generally required to
    spend a specified amount to advertise VF’s products ranging
    from 1% to 5% of their net licensed product sales. In some
    cases, these advertising amounts are remitted to VF for
    advertising on behalf of the licensees. We provide support to
    these business partners and ensure the integrity of our brand
    names by taking an active role in the design, quality control,
    advertising, marketing and distribution of licensed products.



VF has also entered into license agreements to use trademarks
    owned by third parties. We market apparel under licenses granted
    by Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the
    National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League,
    Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc., NASCAR, major colleges, and
    individual athletes and related organizations, most of which
    contain minimum annual licensing and advertising requirements.



Manufacturing,
    Sourcing and Distribution



Product design, fit, fabric, finish and quality are important in
    all of our businesses. These functions are performed by
    employees located in either our global supply chain organization
    or our branded business units across the globe.



VF’s centralized global supply chain organization sources
    product and ultimately bears the responsibility to deliver
    product to our customers. VF is highly skilled in managing the
    complexity associated with the supply chain. VF’s revenues
    are comprised of over 400 million units representing
    500,000 SKUs spread over 30 brands. VF operates over 30
    manufacturing facilities and utilizes over 1,600 contractor
    manufacturing facilities. We operate over 30 distribution
    centers and over 700 retail stores. Managing this complexity is
    made possible by our use of information systems
    technologies — withbest-of-breedsystems for product development, forecasting, order management,
    warehouse management, etc. attached to our core enterprise
    resource management platform.



Today, 16% of our products sold are manufactured in VF-owned
    facilities and 84% are products obtained from contractors,
    primarily in Asia. A combination of VF-owned and contracted
    production from different geographic regions provides
    flexibility and a competitive advantage in our product sourcing.
    We will continue to manage our supply chain from a global
    perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global
    production environment.





For the U.S. market, our current sourcing strategy includes
    a balance of VF-owned production and contracted production in
    the Western Hemisphere and contracted production from Asia.
    Products manufactured in VF facilities generally have a lower
    cost and shorter lead times than contracted production. Product
    obtained from contractors in the Western Hemisphere generally
    has a higher cost than product obtained from contractors in the
    Far East but gives






us greater flexibility and shorter lead times and allows for
    lower inventory levels. The vast majority of units sold and
    dollar value of domestic Net Sales in 2009 were manufactured by
    outside contractors, primarily in Asia. This combination of
    VF-owned and contracted production, along with different
    geographic regions and cost structures, provides a balanced
    approach to product sourcing.



Our independent contractors generally own the raw materials and
    ship to VF only finished,ready-for-saleproducts. These contractors are engaged through VF sourcing hubs
    in Hong Kong (with several satellite offices across Asia) and
    Miami. These hubs are responsible for product procurement,
    product quality assurance, supplier management, transportation
    and shipping functions in the Eastern and Western Hemispheres,
    respectively. Substantially all products in the
    Outdoor & Action Sports and Sportswear Coalitions, as
    well as a growing portion of product requirements for our
    Jeanswear and Imagewear Coalitions, are obtained through these
    sourcing hubs. For most products in our Contemporary Brands
    Coalition, we contract the majority of sewing and finishing of
    VF-owned raw materials through a network of independent domestic
    and international contractors.



Management continually monitors political risks and developments
    related to duties, tariffs and quotas. We limit VF’s
    sourcing exposure through, among other measures,
    (i) extensive geographic diversification with a mix of
    VF-operated and contracted production, (ii) shifts of
    production among countries and contractors,
    (iii) allocation of production to merchandise categories
    where the free flow of product is available and
    (iv) sourcing from countries with tariff preference and
    free trade agreements. VF does not directly or indirectly source
    products from suppliers in countries that are identified by the
    State Department as state sponsors of terrorism and are subject
    to U.S. economic sanctions and export controls.





VF did not experience difficulty in filling its raw material and
    contracting production needs during 2009, and we do not
    anticipate difficulties in meeting our raw materials and
    contracting production requirements during 2010. The loss of any
    one supplier or contractor would not have a significant adverse
    effect on our business.



Product is shipped from our independent suppliers and
    VF-operated manufacturing plants to many distribution centers in
    the United States and international markets. In limited
    instances, product is shipped directly to our customers. Product
    is inspected, sorted and stored in our distribution centers
    until needed for packing and shipping to our wholesale customers
    or our retail stores. Most distribution centers are operated by
    VF, and some support multiple brands. Our distribution centers
    use computer-controlled inventory management technology for
    efficient tracking and movement of products. A small portion of
    our distribution needs are met by contract distribution centers.



Seasonality



With its diversified product offerings, VF’s operating
    results are somewhat seasonal. On a quarterly basis and
    excluding the effect of acquisitions, consolidated Total
    Revenues for 2009 ranged from a low of approximately 21% of full
    year revenues in the second quarter to a high of 29% in the
    third quarter. This variation results primarily from the
    seasonal influences on revenues of our Outdoor &
    Action Sports Coalition, where 19% of the Coalition revenues






occurred in the second quarter and 33% in the third quarter of
    2009. With changes in our mix of business and growth of our
    retail operations, historical quarterly revenue and profit
    trends may not be indicative of future trends. We expect the
    portion of annual revenues and profits occurring in the second
    half of the year to increase.



Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working
    capital increases during the first half of the year as inventory
    builds to support peak shipping periods and then decreases
    during the second half of the year as those inventories are sold
    and accounts receivable are collected. Cash provided by
    operating activities is substantially higher in the second half
    of the year due to higher net income during that period and
    reduced working capital requirements, particularly during the
    fourth quarter.



Advertising
    and Customer Support



During 2009, our advertising and promotion spending was
    $329.1 million, representing 4.6% of Net Sales. We
    advertise in consumer and trade publications, on national and
    local radio and television and on the internet. We also
    participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis
    with major retailers in print media, radio and television. We
    sponsor various sporting, music and other special events and
    sponsor a number of athletes and other personalities. We employ
    marketing sciences to optimize the impact of advertising and
    promotional spending and to identify the types of spending that
    provide the greatest return on our marketing investments.



We providepoint-of-salefixtures and signage to our wholesale customers to enhance the
    presentation and brand image of our products. This includesshop-in-shops,which are separate retail sales areas with brand
    signage — a “store within a
    store” — dedicated to a specific VF brand within
    a customers’ location. We participate in concession
    arrangements with department store customers in China and some
    other international markets. In a typical concession, a
    department store provides a dedicated sales area, along with
    check-out, credit and other services, while VF bears the risk of
    inventory ownership. Concession sales associates may be
    employees of VF or the department store.



We participate in various retail customer incentive programs.
    Incentive programs with retailers include discounts, allowances
    and cooperative advertising funds. We also offer sales incentive
    programs directly to consumers in the form of rebate and coupon
    offers. Sales incentive offers with retailers and with consumers
    are recognized as sales discounts in arriving at reported Net
    Sales (except that cooperative advertising reimbursements of
    documented retailer advertising costs are reported as
    Advertising Expense, and free product with purchase offers are
    reported in Cost of Goods Sold).



Internet websites are maintained for most of our brands. Many of
    them arebusiness-to-consumere-commercesites where consumers can order products from VF. Other consumer
    websites provide information about our brands and products and
    may direct consumers to our wholesale customers where they can
    purchase our products. We also operate severalbusiness-to-businesssites where our retail customers can order VF products.



Our Outdoor & Action Sports, Jeanswear, Sportswear and
    Contemporary Brands Coalitions employ a staff of in-store
    marketing and merchandising coordinators located in major cities
    across the United States. These individuals visit our
    customers’ retail locations to ensure that our products,
    and those of our licensees, are properly presented on the
    merchandise sales floor and to inform the customers’ sales
    force about our products and related promotions.



Other
    Matters



Competitive
    Factors



Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer demand
    for VF’s brands and products. VF is well-positioned to
    compete in the apparel industry by developing consumer-connected
    and innovative products at competitive prices, producing high
    quality merchandise, providing high levels of service, ensuring
    product availability to the retail sales floor and enhancing
    recognition of its brands. We continually strive to improve on
    each of these areas. Many of VF’s brands have long
    histories and enjoy high recognition within their respective
    consumer segments.






Trademarks



Trademarks, patents and domain names, as well as related logos,
    designs and graphics, have substantial value in the marketing of
    VF’s products and are important to our continued success.
    We have registered this intellectual property in the United
    States and in other countries where our products are
    manufacturedand/orsold.
    We vigorously monitor and enforce VF’s intellectual
    property against counterfeiting, infringement and violations of
    other rights where and to the extent legal, feasible and
    appropriate. In addition, we grant licenses to other parties to
    manufacture and sell products utilizing our intellectual
    property in product categories and geographic areas in which VF
    does not operate.



Customers



VF products are primarily sold through our sales force and
    independent sales agents and distributors. VF’s customers
    are specialty stores, department stores, national chains and
    mass merchants in the United States and in international
    markets. Of our Total Revenues, 30% are in international
    markets, primarily in Europe, and 17% aredirect-to-consumerthrough VF-operated retail stores ande-commercesites (which includes stores and internet sites in international
    markets).



Sales to VF’s ten largest customers, all of which are
    retailers based in the United States, amounted to 27% of Total
    Revenues in 2009, 26% in 2008 and 27% in 2007. These larger
    customers included (in alphabetical order) Kohl’s
    Corporation, Macy’s, Inc., J.C. Penney Company, Inc., Sears
    Holding Corporation, Target Corporation and Wal-Mart Stores,
    Inc. Sales to the five largest customers amounted to
    approximately 21% of Total Revenues in 2009 and 2008 and 22% in
    2007. Sales to VF’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores,
    Inc., totaled 11% of Total Revenues in 2009 and 2008 and 12% in
    2007, substantially all of which were in the Jeanswear Coalition.



Employees



VF employed approximately 45,700 men and women at the end of
    2009, of which approximately 19,600 were located in the United
    States. Approximately 800 employees in the United States
    are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In
    international markets, a significant percentage of employees are
    covered by trade-sponsored or governmental bargaining
    arrangements. Employee relations are considered to be good.



Backlog



The dollar amount of VF’s order backlog as of any date is
    not meaningful, may not be indicative of actual future shipments
    and, accordingly, is not material for an understanding of the
    business of VF taken as a whole.






Executive
    Officers of VF



The following are the executive officers of VF Corporation as of
    February 20, 2010. The executive officers are generally elected
    annually and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
    There is no family relationship among any of the VF Corporation
    executive officers.



Period ServedNamePositionAgeIn Such Office(s)Eric C. WisemanChairman of the BoardChief Executive OfficerPresidentDirector54August 2008 to dateJanuary 2008 to dateMarch 2006 to dateOctober 2006 to dateRobert K. ShearerSenior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer58June 2005 to dateBradley W. BattenVice President — Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer54October 2004 to dateCandace S. CummingsVice President — Administration and General CounselSecretary62March 1996 to dateOctober 1997 to dateMichael T. GannawayVice President — VF Direct/ Customer Teams58January 2008 to dateFrank C. Pickard IIIVice President — Treasurer65April 1994 to dateBoyd A. RogersVice President;  President — Supply Chain60June 2005 to dateKarl Heinz SalzburgerVice President;  President — VF International52January 2009 to date





Mr. Wisemanwas named President and Chief Operating
    Officer of VF in March 2006, Director of VF in October 2006,
    Chief Executive Officer in January 2008 and Chairman of the
    Board in August 2008. He has held a progression of leadership
    roles within and across VF’s Coalitions since 1995.
    Additional information is included under the caption
    “Election of Directors” in VF’s definitive Proxy
    Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
    April 27, 2010 (“2010 Proxy Statement”) that will
    be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within
    120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended
    January 2, 2010, which information is incorporated herein
    by reference.



Mr. Shearerjoined VF in 1986 as Assistant
    Controller and was elected Controller in 1989 and Vice
    President — Controller in 1994. He was elected Vice
    President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer in
    1998 and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in
    June 2005.



Mr. Battenrejoined VF in September 2004 and was
    named Vice President — Controller in October 2004.
    Mr. Batten had previously served as Vice
    President & Chief Financial Officer of VF’s
    former intimate apparel business from 1998 to July 2000.



Mrs. Cummingsjoined VF as Vice
    President — General Counsel in 1995 and became Vice
    President — Administration and General Counsel in 1996
    and Secretary in 1997.



Mr. Gannawayjoined VF in July 2004 as Vice
    President — Customer Management. In January 2008, his
    responsibilities were broadened to Vice President — VF
    Direct/Customer Teams.



Mr. Pickardjoined VF in 1976 and was elected
    Assistant Controller in 1982, Assistant Treasurer in 1985,
    Treasurer in 1987 and Vice President — Treasurer in
    1994.



Mr. Rogersjoined VF in 1971 and served in a number
    of positions until his appointment as Vice President —
    Operations in 1994. He was appointed Vice President —
    Process Development Supply Chain in 2000 and Vice
    President — Process and Technology in 2002. In March
    2004, he served as Vice President — Global Supply
    Chain and Technology until his appointment in June 2005 as Vice
    President of VF and President — Supply Chain.






Mr. Salzburgerjoined The North Face in 1997 as
    Chief Executive Officer of European operations and was appointed
    President of The North Face in 1999. Following the VF
    acquisition of The North Face in 2000, Mr. Salzburger
    served as President of VF’s International Outdoor Coalition
    from 2001 until his appointment as President of VF’s
    European, Middle East, Africa and Asian operations in September
    2006. In January 2009, Mr. Salzburger was appointed Vice
    President of VF and President — VF International.



Available
    Information



All periodic and current reports, registration statements and
    other filings that VF has filed or furnished to the Securities
    and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual
    reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are available free of
    charge from the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) and public
    reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
    20549 and on VF’s website at www.vfc.com. Such documents
    are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic
    filing of the material with the SEC. Copies of these reports
    (excluding exhibits) may also be obtained free of charge upon
    written request to the Secretary of VF Corporation,
    P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420.



The following corporate governance documents can be accessed on
    VF’s website: VF’s Corporate Governance Principles,
    Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of our Audit
    Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and
    Nominating and Governance Committee. Copies of these documents
    also may be obtained by any shareholder free of charge upon
    written request to: Secretary of VF Corporation,
    P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420.



After VF’s 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, VF intends
    to file with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the
    certification regarding VF’s compliance with the
    NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards as required
    by NYSE Rule 303A.12. Last year, VF filed this
    certification with the NYSE on May 7, 2009.



