Item 1.Business.

V.F.
Corporation, organized in 1899, is a worldwide leader in the manufacturing and distribution of branded lifestyle apparel, footwear and related products. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “VF,” “we,” “us”
and “our” used herein refer to V.F. Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Our vision
is to grow by building leading lifestyle brands that excite consumers around the world. Lifestyle brands enable us to forge close connections with consumers through inspirational and performance-based products that enhance their specific activities,
areas of interest and ability to express their own individualism. Our largest lifestyle brands areThe North Face®, Vans®,Timberland®,Nautica®,Kipling®,7 For All Mankind®,Napapijri®,Reef®,Splendid®andElla Moss®. We continue to invest in all of our businesses through geographic expansion, product innovation, consumer research, marketing and our direct-to-consumer infrastructure,
including retail store openings, e-commerce and omni-channel retailing.

VF is highly diversified — across brands,
product categories, channels of distribution, geographies and consumer demographics. We own a broad portfolio of brands in the outerwear, footwear, jeanswear, backpacks, luggage, sportswear, occupational and performance apparel categories. These
products are marketed to consumers shopping in specialty stores, upscale and traditional department stores, national chains, mass merchants and our own direct-to-consumer operations. Revenues from our direct-to-consumer business, which includes
VF-operated stores and e-commerce sites, represented 22% of total VF revenues in 2013. VF derived 38% of its 2013 revenues from outside the U.S., primarily in Europe, Asia, Canada, Latin America and Mexico. Many of our brands sell products in
countries through licensees, distributors and independently-operated partnership stores. To provide diversified products across multiple channels of distribution in different geographic areas, we balance efficient and flexible owned manufacturing
with sourcing of finished goods from independent contractors. We utilize state-of-the-art technologies for inventory replenishment that enable us to effectively and efficiently get the right assortment of products that match consumer demand.

For both management and internal financial reporting purposes, VF is organized by groupings of businesses called
“coalitions” that consist of the following: Outdoor & Action Sports, Jeanswear, Imagewear, Sportswear and Contemporary Brands. These coalitions are our reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. Coalition management has
the responsibility to build and operate their brands, with certain financial, administrative and systems support and disciplines provided by central functions within VF.

Our lifestyle business is represented by brands included in the Outdoor & Action Sports, Sportswear and Contemporary Brands Coalitions, which have the greatest potential in our portfolio to
achieve higher long-term revenue, profit growth and profit margins compared to our other businesses. VF’s Jeanswear and Imagewear Coalitions have demonstrated historically strong levels of profitability and cash flow but lower revenue growth
rates.







The following table summarizes VF’s primary owned and licensed brands by coalition:



CoalitionPrimary BrandsPrimary ProductsOutdoor & Action SportsThe North Face®High performance outdoor apparel, footwear and equipmentVans®Action sports-inspired footwear and apparelTimberland®Outdoor adventure-oriented footwear and apparelKipling®Handbags, luggage, backpacks, accessories (outside North America)Napapijri®Premium outdoor apparelJansport®Backpacks, luggage, apparelReef®Surf-inspired footwear, apparelSmartwool®Merino wool socks, apparel and accessoriesEastpak®Backpacks, apparellucy®Women’s activewearEagle Creek®Luggage, packs, travel accessoriesJeanswearWrangler®Denim and casual bottoms, topsLee®Denim and casual bottoms, topsLee Casuals®Denim and casual bottoms, topsRiders®Denim and casual bottoms, topsRustler®Denim and casual bottoms, topsTimber Creek by Wrangler®Denim and casual bottoms, topsRock & Republic®Fashion denim and sportswearImagewearRed Kap®Occupational apparelBulwark®Protective occupational apparelHorace Small®Occupational apparelMajestic®Athletic apparelMLB®(licensed)Licensed athletic apparelNFL®(licensed)Licensed athletic apparelHarley-Davidson®(licensed)Licensed apparelSportswearNautica®Fashion sportswear, denim bottoms, sleepwear, accessories, underwearKipling®Handbags, luggage, backpacks, accessories (within North America)Contemporary Brands7 For All Mankind®Premium denim and casual bottoms, sportswear, accessoriesSplendid®Premium lifestyle apparelElla Moss®Premium lifestyle apparel

Financial information regarding VF’s coalitions is included in Note Q to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, which are included at Item 8 of this report.

Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition

Our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition, VF’s largest and fastest growing business, is a group of authentic outdoor and
activity-based lifestyle brands. Product offerings include outerwear, performance wear, snow sports gear, sportswear, footwear, equipment, backpacks, luggage and accessories.

The North Face®is the largest
brand in our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition and features performance-based apparel, outerwear, snow sports gear, sportswear and footwear for men, women and children. Its equipment line consists of tents, sleeping bags, backpacks and
accessories. Many ofThe North Face®products







are designed for extreme applications, such as high altitude mountaineering and ice and rock climbing.The North
Face®products are marketed through specialty outdoor and premium sporting goods stores in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Asia, and select department stores in the
U.S. In addition, products are sold through approximately 125 VF-operated stores in the U.S., Europe and Asia and online at www.thenorthface.com. The brand is also sold outside the U.S. through agents, distributors, and more than 365The
North Face®brand partnership stores operated by independent third parties.

Vans®brand performance
and casual footwear and apparel is designed for skateboard, bicycle motocross (“BMX”), surfing and snow sports participants and enthusiasts. Products are sold on a wholesale basis through national chain stores, through skate and surf
shops, and specialty stores in the U.S. Products are also sold through more than 400 VF-operatedVans®brand stores located in North America, Europe and
Asia, through over 170 partnership stores operated by independent third parties primarily in Asia and online at www.vans.com. VF has 70% ownership of theVans Warped
Tour®– a music and youth culture festival that features rock bands touring throughout North America, Europe and Australia.

TheTimberland®brand offers outdoor, adventure-inspired products that combine performance benefits and versatile styling, including premium quality footwear, apparel and
accessories for men, women and children.Timberland®brand footwear offerings include boots,
hiking boots and shoes, casual shoes, boat shoes, sandals and custom shoes. TheTimberland Boot
Company®is a premium footwear series that pays homage to the turn-of-the century art of shoemaking in
New England. TheTimberland PRO®series is developed to address the distinct footwear needs of
skilled tradespeople and working professionals. TheEarthkeepers®collection utilizes
renewable, organic and recycled materials that are designed to reduce environmental impact. We
sellTimberland®products to retailers on a wholesale basis, as well as through independent
distributors and licensees. In addition, we sell these products through over 200 VF-operated stores and over 750 independently-operated partnership stores in the U.S., Europe, Asia and South America. We also sell our products online at
www.timberland.com.

Kipling®handbags,
luggage, backpacks, totes and accessories are stylish, colorful and fun products that are both practical and durable. Products are sold through specialty and department stores in Europe, Asia and South America, as well as through over
35 VF-operated stores, over 250 independently-operated partnership stores and at www.kipling.com. TheKipling®brand in North America is managed as
part of the Sportswear Coalition.

Derived from the Finnish word for Arctic Circle, theNapapijri®brand offers premium-priced performance skiwear and outdoor-inspired casual outerwear, sportswear and accessories for men, women and children. Products are sold on
a wholesale basis primarily to specialty shops in Europe and Asia. Products are also sold in Europe and Asia through over 25 VF-operated and over 140 independently-operated partnership stores, and are available online at www.napapijri.com.

JanSport®backpacks,
duffel bags, luggage and accessories are sold through department, office supply and national chain stores, as well as sports specialty stores and college bookstores in the U.S.JanSport®products are also sold online at www.jansport.com.JanSport®backpacks have a
leading market share in the U.S. A technical line ofJanSport®backpacks is sold through outdoor and sporting goods stores.JanSport®fleece and T-shirts imprinted with college logos are sold through college bookstores and sporting goods stores in the U.S.

TheReef®brand of
surf-inspired products includes sandals, shoes, swimwear, casual apparel and accessories for men, women and children. Products are sold to surf shops, sporting goods and specialty chains, department stores, and distributors in North America, South
America, Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa. Products are also sold at www.reef.com. TheReef
Redemption®product series incorporates sustainable, recycled and/or organic materials, wherever
reasonably possible, to produce uniqueReef®product without sacrificing fit, quality,
comfort or style.







TheSmartWool®brand offers active outdoor consumers a premium, technical layering system of merino wool socks, apparel and
accessories that are designed to work together in fit, form and function.SmartWool®products are
sold through premium outdoor and specialty retailers primarily in the U.S. and Europe, and online at www.smartwool.com.

In Europe,Eastpak®backpacks, travel bags, luggage, and a line ofEastpak®clothing are sold primarily through department and specialty stores and online at www.eastpak.com.Eastpak®is one of the leading backpack brands in Europe.Eastpak®products are
also marketed throughout Asia by licensees and distributors.

Thelucy®brand is a women’s activewear brand designed for style, performance and fit that can be worn by
today’s active woman from workout to weekend.lucy®apparel is sold in the U.S. through
over 60 VF-operatedlucy®brand stores, on a wholesale basis to U.S. specialty retailers and
online at www.lucy.com.

Eagle
Creek®adventure travel gear products include luggage, backpacks and accessories sold through specialty luggage, outdoor and department stores primarily in North
America and Europe, and online at www.eaglecreek.com.

We expect continued long-term growth in our Outdoor & Action
Sports Coalition as we focus on product innovation, extend our brands into new product categories, open additional stores, expand geographically and acquire additional lifestyle brands.

Jeanswear Coalition

Our Jeanswear Coalition markets
jeanswear and related casual products in the U.S. and in many international markets. The largest of these brands, theLee®andWrangler®brands, have long-standing traditions as authentic American jeans brands as they were established in 1889 and 1947, respectively, and have strong market
positions.Lee®andWrangler®products are sold in nearly
every developed country through a combination of wholesale accounts, VF-operated stores, independently-operated partnership stores and online through our brands’ websites. Products also include shorts, casual pants, knit and woven tops and
outerwear, which are designed to complement the jeanswear products and extend our brands. We also market jeanswear and related casual products under theLee
Casuals®andTimber Creek by Wrangler®brands.

In the U.S.
market,Lee®branded products are sold primarily through mid-tier department stores and specialty stores.Wrangler®westernwear is marketed primarily through western specialty stores. TheWrangler®,Rustler®andRiders®by Lee®brands are marketed to mass merchant and regional discount stores. Additionally, we own theRock & Republic®brand, and we have an exclusive wholesale distribution and licensing arrangement with Kohl’s Corporation that covers allRock & Republic®apparel, accessories, and other merchandise in the U.S.

Our world-class supply chain, including owned manufacturing facilities along with advanced vendor-managed inventory and retail floor space management programs with many of our major retailer customers,
gives us a competitive advantage in our jeanswear business. We receive point-of-sale information from these customers on a daily or weekly basis, at an individual store and style-size-color stock keeping unit (“SKU”) level. We then ship
products based on that customer data to ensure their selling floors are appropriately stocked with products that match their shoppers’ needs. Our system capabilities allow us to analyze our retail customers’ sales, demographic and
geographic data to develop product assortment recommendations that maximize the productivity of their jeanswear selling space and optimize their inventory investment.

Jeanswear in most international markets is more fashion-oriented and has a higher selling price than similar products in the U.S. The international jeans market is also more fragmented than the U.S.
market, with competitors ranging from global brands to a number of smaller brands marketed in a specific country or region.







VF’s largest international jeanswear businesses are located in
Europe and Asia, whereLee®andWrangler®jeanswear products are sold through
department stores and specialty stores. We also marketLee®andWrangler®products to mass market, department and specialty stores in Canada and Mexico, as well as to department stores and specialty stores in Asia and South America. In key international markets, we are expanding our reach through VF-operated stores, which
are an important vehicle for presenting our brands’ image and marketing message directly to consumers. We currently have more than 65 VF-operated stores primarily located in South America, Europe and Asia and are continuing to expand our
jeanswear brands in emerging markets. In foreign markets where VF does not have owned operations,Lee®andWrangler®products are marketed through distributors, agents, licensees and over 800 independently operated single brand or multi-brand partnership stores.

In the U.S., we intend to drive growth in the mass market and western specialty businesses through superior consumer insight and
marketing strategies and continuous product innovation. Internationally, growth will be driven by expansion of our existing businesses in Asia and key European markets.

Imagewear Coalition

Our Imagewear Coalition consists of the Image business
(occupational apparel and uniforms) and Licensed Sports business (owned and licensed athletic apparel). The Image and Licensed Sports businesses represent approximately 55% and 45%, respectively, of total coalition revenues.

The Image business provides uniforms and career occupational apparel for workers in North America and
internationally, under theRed Kap®brand (a premium workwear brand with 90 years of history), theBulwark®brand (flame resistant and protective apparel primarily for the petrochemical, utility and mining industries) and theHorace Small®brand (apparel for law enforcement and public safety personnel with over 60 years of history). Products include a wide range of functionally designed shirts, pants,
coveralls and outerwear. Image revenues are significantly correlated with the overall level of manufacturing and oil and gas industry employment in the U.S.

Approximately 70% of Image revenues are from industrial laundries, resellers and distributors that in turn supply
customized workwear to employers for production, service and white-collar personnel. Since industrial laundries and distributors maintain minimal inventories of work clothes, VF’s ability to offer rapid delivery of products in a broad range of
sizes is an important advantage in this market. Our commitment to customer service, supported by an automated central distribution center with several satellite locations, enables customer orders to be filled within 24 hours of receipt and has
helped theRed Kap®andBulwark®brands obtain a significant share of uniform
apparel sold to industrial laundries, resellers and distributors.

The Image business also develops and manages uniform
programs through custom-designed websites for major business customers and governmental organizations. These websites provide the employees of our customers with the convenience of shopping for their work and career apparel via the Internet.

In the Licensed Sports business, we design and market sports apparel and fanwear under licenses granted
by major U.S.-based sports leagues, individual athletes and related organizations, including Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the MLB Players Association, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League and
selected major colleges and universities. In addition, the Licensed Sports division is a major supplier of licensedHarley-Davidson®apparel to
Harley-Davidson dealerships.

Under license from Major League Baseball, theMajestic®brand is the official on-field uniform of all 30 major league
teams.Majestic®brand adult and youth-size authentic, replica jerseys and fanwear are sold through sporting goods and athletic specialty stores,
department stores and major league stadiums. Sports apparel and fanwear marketed under other licensed labels are distributed through department, mass market, sporting goods and athletic specialty stores and e-commerce partners. Our quick response
capabilities allow us to deliver products to retailers within hours following major sporting events such as the Super Bowl, the World Series and conference or division playoff championships.







The opportunities to grow Imagewear Coalition revenues include
(i) extension of product and service capabilities to new industrial and service apparel distribution channels, markets, and geographies, (ii) expansion of Image’s traditional business-to-business workwear brands into consumer
channels, (iii) growth of theMajestic®brand for Major League Baseball as well as our licensed National Football League business, (iv) market
share gains in key licensed categories such as women’s sports apparel, (v) expansion of our college and university fanwear program, and (vi) expansion of our on-field licensed model and fanwear expertise to new geographies.

Sportswear Coalition

The Sportswear Coalition consists of theNautica®andKipling®brand businesses in North America (theKipling®brand outside of North America is
managed by the Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition).

Nautica®brand men’s sportswear is marketed through department stores, specialty stores, VF-operated outlet stores and at www.nautica.com. TheNautica®brand is one of the leading men’s sportswear collection brands in department stores in the U.S.Nautica®women’s sportswear is sold in the U.S. in department stores, at mostNautica®outlet stores and at www.nautica.com. OtherNautica®product lines include men’s outerwear, underwear and swimwear and men’s and women’s
sleepwear. We operate over 85Nautica®brand outlet stores in premium and better outlet centers across the U.S.

TheNautica®brand
is licensed to independent parties in the U.S. for apparel categories not produced by VF (e.g., tailored clothing, dress shirts, neckwear, women’s swimwear and outerwear, children’s clothing) and for non-apparel categories (e.g.,
accessories, fragrances, watches, eyewear, footwear, luggage, bed and bath products, furniture).Nautica®products are licensed for sale in over 50
countries outside the U.S. In addition, independent licensees operate over 300Nautica®brand stores across the world, most of which are full-price
stores in Asia, North and South America and the Middle East.

The Sportswear Coalition also includes
theKipling®business in North America whose products
includeKipling®brand handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and accessories.Kipling®products are sold in the U.S. through department, specialty and luggage stores, at over 25 VF-operated full price and outlet stores and at www.kipling.com, and in
Canada through specialty and department stores. In the U.S., theKipling®brand has seen significant growth in 2013, driven by new stores, comparable
store growth and increased distribution.

We believe there is the potential to growNautica®brand revenue and improve profit performance through the growth of core Nautica sportswear products, increased
average selling prices, improved product assortments and an enhanced customer experience atNautica®brand outlet stores, growth in the brand’s
online business and expansion of the licensed business, both domestically and internationally. There is also the potential for expanding
theKipling®brand through our handbag and accessories relationship with Macy’s, Inc., e-commerce, the travel-related retail distribution channel
and additional VF-operated stores.

Contemporary Brands Coalition

Our Contemporary Brands Coalition is focused on premium upscale lifestyle brands, and includes the7 For All
Mankind®,Splendid®andElla Moss®brands.

7 For
All Mankind®is a Los Angeles-based brand of premium denim jeans and related products for women and men. While the core business remains focused on denim, the
collection also includes sportswear products, such as knit and woven tops, sweaters, jackets and accessories.7 For All Mankind®is a leading premium jeans
brand in the U.S., where it generates more than 60% of its sales, and is marketed through premium department stores, specialty stores and VF-operated stores. International sales are through department stores, specialty stores, VF-operated stores and
over 60 independently-operated partnership stores, the majority of which are in Europe and Asia. The7 For All Mankind®brand has approximately 75
VF-operated stores in the U.S., Europe and Canada. Products are also sold online at www.7forallmankind.com.







TheSplendid®brand offers premium tops and casual apparel for women, men and children, and theElla Moss®brand offers premium sportswear for women and girls. These brands, noted for their soft wearable fabrics and vibrant colors, are marketed to upscale department and
specialty stores primarily in the U.S. They are also sold through approximately 30 VF-operatedSplendid®brand stores and twoElla Moss®brand stores, and at www.splendid.com and www.ellamoss.com.

We believe the7 For All Mankind®,Splendid®andElla Moss®brands can grow their revenues
through new stores, e-commerce, new product offerings, licensing arrangements and in the wholesale channel. We are also focusing on international growth opportunities, primarily through VF-operated and partnership stores in Europe, Asia and South
America.

Direct-To-Consumer Operations

Our direct-to-consumer business includes full-price stores, outlet stores and e-commerce. Direct-to-consumer revenues accounted for 22% of VF’s consolidated total revenues in 2013, compared with 21%
in 2012.

Our full price stores allow us to showcase a brand’s full line of products with fixtures and imagery that
support the brand’s positioning and promise to consumers. These stores provide high visibility for our brands and products and enable us to stay close to the needs and preferences of our consumers. The proper presentation of products in our
stores, particularly in our showcase stores, also helps to increase sell-through of VF products at our wholesale customers. VF-operated full price stores generally provide margins and return on investment that are well above VF averages. In
addition, VF operates outlet stores in both premium outlet malls and more traditional value-based locations. These outlet stores serve an important role in our overall inventory management and profitability by allowing VF to sell a significant
portion of excess, discontinued and out-of-season products at better prices than are otherwise available from outside parties, while maintaining the integrity of our brands.

Our growing global retail operations include 1,246 stores at the end of 2013. Of that total, there are 1,166 single
brand stores (i.e., primarily one brand’s product offerings in each store) that sellVans®,Timberland®, The North
Face®,Nautica®,7 For All Mankind®, Lee®,Wrangler®,lucy®,Kipling®, Splendid®,
Napapijri®andElla Moss®brand products. We also operate 80VF Outlet®stores in the U.S. that sell a broad selection of excess quantities of VF-branded products, as well as women’s intimate apparel, children’s wear, other
apparel and accessories. Approximately 70% of VF-operated stores offer products at full price, and the remainder are outlet locations. Approximately 60% of our stores are located in the U.S. and the remaining 40% are located in Europe, Asia, Latin
America, Mexico and Canada.

E-commerce is our fastest growing direct-to-consumer channel and represents
approximately 13% of our direct-to-consumer business. We currently marketThe North Face®,Vans®,Timberland®, 7
For All Mankind®, Kipling®,SmartWool®, Lee®,Wrangler®,lucy®,Nautica®,Splendid®,Ella Moss®,JanSport®,Reef®,andEagle Creek®products online in the U.S., plusThe North Face®, Vans®, Timberland®, 7 For All Mankind®,Kipling®,Napapijri®,
Eastpak®and other brands internationally. We are continuing to expand our e-commerce initiatives by rolling out additional brand sites in Europe and Asia, and
enhancing each brand’s site to deliver a superior consumer experience.

We expect our
direct-to-consumer business to continue to grow at a faster pace than VF’s overall growth rate as we continue to drive comparable store sales, open new stores and expand our e-commerce presence. We opened 164 stores during 2013 and we are
planning to open approximately 150 additional locations in 2014, concentrated in the brands where we see higher retail growth potential
—Vans®,The North Face®,Timberland®andSplendid®.

In addition to our direct-to-consumer operations, our licensees, distributors and other independent parties own and operate
over 3,000 partnership stores. These are primarily monobrand stores selling VF-branded







products, and have the appearance of VF-operated stores. Most of these partnership stores are located in Europe and Asia, and are concentrated inThe North Face®,Vans®,Timberland®,Kipling®,Nautica®,Napapijri®,Lee®andWrangler®brands.

Licensing Arrangements

As part of our business strategy of expanding market penetration of VF-owned brands, we enter into licensing agreements for specific
apparel and complementary product categories when such arrangements with independent parties provide more effective manufacturing, distribution and marketing of such products than could be achieved internally. We provide support to these business
partners and ensure the integrity of our brand names by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of licensed products.

Licensing arrangements relate to a broad range of VF brands. License agreements are for fixed terms of generally
three to five years, with conditional renewal options. Each licensee pays royalties to VF based on its sales of licensed products, with most agreements providing for a minimum royalty requirement. Royalties generally range from 4% to 10% of the
licensing partners’ net licensed products sales. Royalty income was $117.3 million in 2013 (1% of total revenues), primarily from theNautica®,Vans®,Timberland®, Lee®,andWrangler®brands. In addition, licensees of our brands are
generally required to spend from 1% to 5% of their net licensed product sales to advertise VF’s products. In some cases, these advertising amounts are remitted to VF for advertising on behalf of the licensees.

VF has also entered into license agreements to use trademarks owned by third parties. We market apparel under licenses granted by Major
League Baseball, the National Football League, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc., major colleges and universities, and individual athletes and related organizations, most of which
contain minimum annual royalty and advertising requirements.

Manufacturing, Sourcing and Distribution

Product design and innovation, including fit, fabric, finish and quality, are important elements across all of our businesses. These
functions are performed by employees located in our global supply chain organization and our branded business units across the globe.

VF’s centralized global supply chain organization is responsible for sourcing and delivering products to our customers. VF is highly skilled in managing the complexities associated with our global
supply chain. On an annual basis, VF sources or produces approximately 500 million units spread across 35 brands. VF operates 28 manufacturing facilities and utilizes approximately 1,800 contractor manufacturing facilities in 60 countries. We
operate 29 distribution centers and 1,246 retail stores. Managing this complexity is made possible by the use of a network of information systems for product development, forecasting, order management and warehouse management, attached to our core
enterprise resource management platforms.

In 2013, 27% of our units were manufactured in VF-operated facilities and 73% were
obtained from independent contractors, primarily in Asia. Products manufactured in VF facilities generally have a lower cost and shorter lead times than contracted production. Products obtained from contractors in the Western Hemisphere generally
have a higher cost than products obtained from contractors in Asia. However, contracting in the Western Hemisphere gives us greater flexibility, shorter lead times and allows for lower inventory levels. This combination of VF-owned and contracted
production, along with different geographic regions and cost structures, provides a well-balanced approach to product sourcing. We will continue to manage our supply chain from a global perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global
production environment.







VF operates manufacturing facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Central and South America, the
Caribbean, Europe and the Middle East. A significant percentage of denim bottoms and occupational apparel are manufactured in these plants, as well as a smaller percentage of footwear. For these owned production facilities, we purchase raw materials
from numerous domestic and international suppliers to meet our production needs. Raw materials include products made from cotton, leather, rubber, wool, synthetics and blends of cotton and synthetic yarn, as well as thread and trim (product
identification, buttons, zippers, snaps, eyelets and laces). In some instances, we contract the sewing of VF-owned raw materials into finished product with independent contractors. Manufacturing in the U.S. includes all Major League Baseball
uniforms, along with screen printing and embroidery of jerseys, T-shirts and fleece products. Fixed price commitments for fabric and certain supplies are generally set on a quarterly basis for the next quarter’s purchases. No single supplier
represents more than 5% of our total cost of sales.

Independent contractors generally own the raw materials and ship finished
ready-for-sale products to VF. These contractors are engaged through VF sourcing hubs in Hong Kong (with satellite offices across Asia) and Panama. These hubs are responsible for coordinating the manufacturing and procurement of product, supplier
management, product quality assurance, and transportation and shipping functions in the Eastern and Western Hemispheres, respectively. Substantially all products in the Outdoor & Action Sports and Sportswear Coalitions, as well as a portion
of products for our Jeanswear and Imagewear Coalitions, are obtained through these sourcing hubs. For most products in our Contemporary Brands Coalition, we contract the sewing and finishing of VF-owned raw materials through a network of independent
contractors based in the U.S.

Management continually monitors political risks and developments related to duties, tariffs and
quotas. We limit VF’s sourcing exposure through, among other measures, (i) diversifying geographies with a mix of VF-operated and contracted production, (ii) shifting of production among countries and contractors, (iii) sourcing
production to merchandise categories where product is readily available and (iv) sourcing from countries with tariff preference and free trade agreements. VF does not directly or indirectly source products from suppliers in countries identified
by the State Department as state sponsors of terrorism and subject to U.S. economic sanctions and export controls.

VF did not experience difficulty in filling its raw material and contracting production needs during 2013 and does not anticipate any difficulty in 2014. We believe that we will be able to remain cost
competitive in 2014 due to our scale and significance to our suppliers. Absent any material changes, VF believes it would be able to largely offset any increases in product costs through: (i) the continuing shift in the mix of its business to
higher margin brands, geographies and channels of distribution; (ii) increases in the prices of its products; and (iii) cost reduction opportunities. The loss of any one supplier or contractor would not have a significant adverse effect on
our business.







Product is shipped from our independent suppliers and VF-operated manufacturing facilities
to distribution centers in the U.S. and international locations. In some instances, product is shipped directly to our customers. Most distribution centers are operated by VF, and some support more than one brand. A portion of our distribution needs
are met by contract distribution centers.

Seasonality

VF’s operating results vary from quarter-to-quarter throughout the year due to the differing sales patterns of our individual businesses. On a quarterly basis, consolidated total revenues for 2013
ranged from a low of 19% of full year revenues in the second quarter to a high of 29% in the third quarter, while consolidated operating income ranged from a low of 12% in the second quarter to a high of 35% in the third quarter. This variation
results primarily from the seasonal influences on revenues of our Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition, where 17% of the Coalition’s revenues occurred in the second quarter and 31% in the third quarter of 2013. With changes in our mix of
business and the growth of our retail operations, historical quarterly revenue and profit trends may not be indicative of future trends. We expect the portion of annual revenues and profits occurring in the second half of the year to continue to
increase.

Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working capital increases during the first half of the year
as inventory builds to support peak shipping periods and then moderates during the second half of the year as those inventories are sold and accounts receivable are collected. Cash provided by operating activities is substantially higher in the
second half of the year due to higher net income during that period and reduced working capital requirements, particularly during the fourth quarter.

Advertising, Customer Support and Community Outreach

During 2013, our
advertising and promotion expense was $671.3 million, representing 5.9% of net sales. We advertise in consumer and trade publications, on radio and television, and through digital initiatives including social media and mobile platforms on the
Internet. We also participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with major retailers in print media, radio and television. We sponsor sporting, musical and special events, as well as athletes and personalities who promote our
products. We employ marketing sciences to optimize the impact of advertising and promotional spending and to identify the types of spending that provide the greatest return on our marketing investments.

We provide advertising support to our wholesale customers in the form of point-of-sale fixtures and signage to enhance the presentation
and brand image of our products. We also participate in shop-in-shops and concession arrangements, which are separate sales areas dedicated to a specific VF brand within our customers’ stores, to help differentiate and enhance the presentation
of our products.

We participate in incentive programs with our retailer customers, including customer loyalty, discounts,
allowances and cooperative advertising funds. We also offer sales incentive programs directly to consumers in the form of rebate and coupon offers.

In addition to sponsorships and activities that directly benefit our products and brands, VF and its associates actively support our communities and various charities. For example,The North Face®brand has committed to programs that encourage and enable outdoor participation, such as thePlanet Explore®(www.planetexplore.com), theThe North Face Endurance Challenge®and theExplore Your
ParksTMprograms. TheTimberland®brand has a heritage of volunteerism, including thePath of Service™ program that offers full-time employees up to 40 hours of paid time off a year
to serve their local communities. TheTimberland®brand also sponsors two annual global service events, Earth Day in the spring and Serv-a-palooza in the
fall, when employees provide assistance to local communities through various volunteer efforts. TheNautica®brand supports Oceana, a not-for-profit
organization focused on ocean conservatism, and Charity: Water, a not-for-profit organization focused on providing clean, safe water to people in need. In addition, 2013 marked the eighteenth year of support for theLee National Denim
Day®event, one of the







country’s largest single-day fundraisers for breast cancer that has raised over $89 million since its inception to fight breast cancer. VF also supports company-wide sustainability efforts,
and recognizes the “VF 100” to honor the 100 VF associates worldwide having the highest number of volunteer service hours during the year.

Other Matters

Competitive Factors

Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer demand for VF’s brands and products. VF is well-positioned to compete in
the apparel and footwear industries by developing high quality innovative products at competitive prices that meet consumer needs, providing high service levels, ensuring the right products are on the retail sales floor to meet consumer demand,
investing significant amounts behind existing brands and continuing to evaluate the potential for acquiring additional brands. We continually strive to improve in each of these areas. Many of VF’s brands have long histories and enjoy strong
recognition within their respective consumer segments.

Intellectual Property

Trademarks, patents and domain names, as well as related logos, designs and graphics, provide substantial value in the development and
marketing of VF’s products and are important to our continued success. We have registered this intellectual property in the U.S. and in other countries where our products are manufactured and/or sold. We vigorously monitor and enforce VF’s
intellectual property against counterfeiting, infringement and violations of other rights where and to the extent legal, feasible and appropriate. In addition, we grant licenses to other parties to manufacture and sell products utilizing our
intellectual property in product categories and geographic areas in which VF does not operate.

Customers

VF products are primarily sold on a wholesale basis to specialty stores, department stores, national chains and mass
merchants. In addition, we sell products on a direct-to-consumer basis through VF-operated stores and e-commerce sites, which accounted for 22% of our total revenues in 2013. Our sales in international markets are growing and represented 38% of our
total revenues in 2013, the majority of which were in Europe.

Sales to VF’s ten largest customers, all of which are
retailers based in the U.S., amounted to 21% of total revenues in 2013, 21% in 2012 and 23% in 2011. Sales to the five largest customers amounted to approximately 16% of total revenues in 2013, 16% in 2012 and 18% in 2011. Sales to VF’s largest
customer totaled 8% of total revenues in 2013, 8% in 2012 and 9% in 2011, the majority of which were in the Jeanswear Coalition.

Employees

VF had approximately 59,000 employees at the end of 2013,
of which approximately 26,000 were located in the U.S. Approximately 630 employees in the U.S. are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In international markets, a significant percentage of employees are covered by trade-sponsored or
governmental bargaining arrangements. Employee relations are considered to be good.

Backlog

The dollar amount of VF’s order backlog as of any date is not meaningful, may not be indicative of actual future shipments and,
accordingly, is not material for an understanding of the business of VF taken as a whole.







Executive Officers of VF

The following are the executive officers of VF Corporation as of February 26, 2014. The executive officers are generally elected annually and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. There is
no family relationship among any of the VF Corporation executive officers.

Eric C. Wiseman, 58, has been
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of VF since August 2008, January 2008 and March 2006, respectively. He has been a Director of VF since October 2006. He has held a progression of leadership roles within VF since
1995.

Robert K. Shearer, 62, has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of VF since 2005.
He served as Vice President – Finance and Chief Financial Officer from 1998 to 2005, Vice President – Controller from 1994 to 1998, Controller from 1989 to 1994, and Assistant Controller from 1986 to 1989.

Scott H. Baxter, 49, has been Vice President and Group President – Jeanswear Americas, Imagewear and South America
since May 2013. He served as Vice President and Group President – Jeanswear Americas and Imagewear from 2011 until May 2013, President of Imagewear, composed of both the Image and Licensed Sports group businesses, from 2008 to 2011, and
President of the Licensed Sports Group from 2007 to 2008.

Michael T. Gannaway, 62, has been Vice President
– VF Direct/Customer Teams since 2008. He served as Vice President – Customer Management from 2004 to 2008.

Laura C. Meagher, 53, has been Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 2012. She served as Vice President
– Deputy General Counsel from 2008 to 2012, and Assistant General Counsel from 2004 to 2008.

Steve E. Rendle, 54, has been Vice President and Group President – Outdoor & Action
Sports Americas since May 2011. He served as President of VF’s Outdoor Americas businesses from 2009 to 2011, President ofThe North Face®brand from 2004 to
2009 and Vice President of Sales ofThe North Face®brand from 1999 to 2004.

Scott A. Roe, 49, has been Vice President – Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of VF since February 2013. He
served as Vice President – Finance of VF from 2012 to 2013, as Vice President – Chief Financial Officer of VF International from 2006 to 2012, and as Vice President – Chief Financial Officer of VF’s former intimate apparel
business from 2002 to 2006. He joined VF in 1996.

Karl Heinz Salzburger, 56, has been Vice
President of VF and President – VF International since 2009. He became President of VF’s European, Middle East, Africa and Asian operations in September 2006. He served as President of VF’s international outdoor businesses from 2001
to 2006. He joined VF with the acquisition ofThe North Face®brand in 2000.

Additional information is included under the caption “Election of Directors” in VF’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 22, 2014
(“2014 Proxy Statement”) that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended December 28, 2013, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration statements and other filings that VF has filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”), including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, are available
free of charge from the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) and public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 and on VF’s website at www.vfc.com. Such







documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. Copies of these reports may also be obtained free of charge upon written request to
the Secretary of VF Corporation, P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420. Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

The following corporate governance documents can be accessed on VF’s website: VF’s Corporate Governance Principles, Code of
Business Conduct, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee. Copies of these documents also may be obtained by any shareholder free of charge upon written request
to the Secretary of VF Corporation, P.O. Box 21488, Greensboro, NC 27420.

After VF’s 2014 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, VF intends to file with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) the certification regarding VF’s compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards as required by NYSE Rule 303A.12. Last year, VF filed
this certification with the NYSE on May 1, 2013.

