
10-K
10-K



     AS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ON MARCH 11, 1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)

    [x]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
         For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995

                                       OR

    [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
         For the transition period from                   to                   .

                        Commission File Number: 33-41102
                            ------------------------

                           SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 654-7282

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:



    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes __X__    No _____

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [  ]

    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant,  based upon  the closing  price of its  common stock  on February 9,
1996, on the NASDAQ National Market System was $188,310,442.

    At February 9, 1996, 9,075,202 shares  of the registrant's common stock  (no
par value) were outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         THIS REPORT CONTAINS A TOTAL OF 71 PAGES, INCLUDING EXHIBITS.
                        THE EXHIBIT INDEX IS ON PAGE 63.

                               



                                     PART 1

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

    Silicon  Valley Bancshares (the  "Company") is a  California corporation and
bank holding company  that was  incorporated on  April 23,  1982. The  Company's
principal  subsidiary  is  Silicon  Valley Bank  (the  "Bank"),  a  wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company  that was organized and  incorporated as a  California
banking  corporation on  October 17, 1983.  SVB Leasing Company,  a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, was incorporated on November 14, 1984 as a California
corporation, and has remained inactive since incorporation.

    The Bank is  a member of  the Federal  Reserve System and  its deposits  are
insured  by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The Bank maintains
regional banking offices in Northern  and Southern California, and  additionally
has loan offices in Maryland, Massachusetts and Oregon. The Bank serves emerging
and  middle-market growth companies in specific  targeted niches, and focuses on
the technology and life sciences industries, while identifying and  capitalizing
on opportunities to serve other groups of clients with unique financial needs.

    The  Company intends to  continue the expansion of  Bank operations, both in
terms of geographic  presence and  market opportunities,  within California  and
other marketplaces across the nation.

MARKET AREA AND CLIENT BASE

    The  Bank is  organized into  three major  marketing groups:  the Technology
Group; the Special Industries Group; and the Strategic Financial Services Group.
These groups  serve customers  across the  nation through  branches and/or  loan
offices located in Northern and Southern California, Maryland, Massachusetts and
Oregon. The Bank also has a National Accounts Division that targets customers in
other key markets throughout the United States.

    The  Bank's  Technology Group  focuses  on commercial  lending  to companies
within  a  variety  of  technology   and  life  sciences  industries,  such   as
semiconductors,  electronics,  software,  communications,  peripherals,  medical
devices, biotechnology and  others. The Technology  Group serves clients  across
the nation and these clients are generally not affected by local economic cycles
as  much  as they  are  influenced by  the  global market  conditions  for their
industry's products or services.

    Lenders in the  Bank's Special  Industries Group  (SIG) serve  clients in  a
variety   of  middle-market   commercial  enterprises,   primarily  in  Northern
California. The  Bank's strategy  is  to identify  under-served niches  where  a
strong opportunity exists to serve targeted clients, generally those with credit
needs under $10.0 million, by developing a high level of knowledge of the target
market  and its business cycles and risks. In 1994 and 1995, the Bank identified
the wine industry and religious institutions as two new niches, and in 1996  has
identified  a niche  within the entertainment  industry. The  Bank has commenced
lending operations related to all three of these new niches.

    Within SIG,  the Bank's  Real  Estate Division  is selectively  involved  in
lending  operations  related  to real  estate  construction  projects, including
"owner-build-to-suit"  residences  and  "pre-leased"  commercial  buildings.  In
addition,  the Real Estate Division supports  other Bank lending groups with its
expertise in real  estate lending. Real  estate term loans  are usually made  to
clients  of the  Technology or Special  Industries Groups  to finance commercial
real estate to be operated by the client.

    The Bank's Strategic Financial Services Group consists of several  fee-based
and  specialized lending  product divisions.  The International  Division offers
clients a variety of trade finance products, while the Cash Management  Division
provides  services to  help clients  manage cash  collections, disbursements and
investments. Both the Factoring Division and the Commercial Finance Division (an
asset-based lending division)  offer alternative financing  to client  companies
that do not qualify for traditional bank loans. The Factoring Division purchases
clients'  accounts receivable at a  discount, making operating funds immediately
available to the clients,  and then manages the  collection of the  receivables.
The  Factoring Division generally serves emerging technology companies and other
start-


up businesses. The Commercial Finance Division serves client companies later  in
their  business cycle,  typically with secured  lines of  credit requiring daily
collateral monitoring. As clients of the Commercial Finance Division grow,  they
often become eligible for more traditional bank financing from one of the Bank's
other lending groups. The Executive Banking Division serves the personal banking
needs  of certain  executives and  owners of  client companies,  as well  as the
partners of venture capital firms. Finally, the Business Banking Division serves
small, usually non-technology,  companies in  a variety  of industries.  Lending
services  provided by  the Business Banking  Division focus  on both government-
guaranteed and other small business loans.

EMPLOYEES

    As of  December  31, 1995,  the  Company and  the  Bank, in  the  aggregate,
employed  348  full-time  equivalent  staff, consisting  of  both  full-time and
permanent part-time employees. Full-time equivalent is a measurement  equivalent
to  one full-time employee working a standard day  and is based on the number of
hours worked in a given  month. The Company's and  the Bank's employees are  not
represented  by  a  union  or  covered  by  a  collective  bargaining agreement.
Management of the Company and the  Bank believes that, in general, its  employee
relations are satisfactory.

COMPETITION

    The  banking and financial  services business in California,  as well as the
rest of the  United States, is  highly competitive, particularly  in the  Bank's
market  areas. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of
changes in regulation, changes in  technology and product delivery systems,  and
the  accelerating pace of consolidation  among financial services providers. The
Bank competes  for client  loans, deposits,  and other  financial services  with
other  commercial banks, savings and loan associations, securities and brokerage
companies, mortgage  companies, insurance  companies, finance  companies,  money
market  funds, credit unions,  and other non-bank  financial services providers.
Many of these competitors  are much larger in  total assets and  capitalization,
have  greater access to capital  markets and offer a  broader array of financial
services than the Bank.  In order to compete  with the other financial  services
providers, the Bank principally relies upon promotional activities in its market
areas,  personal  relationships with  clients,  referral sources  established by
officers, directors and employees, and specialized services tailored to meet the
Bank's clients' needs.

    In those instances where the Bank is unable to accommodate a client's needs,
the Bank  will  seek  to arrange  for  those  services to  be  provided  by  its
correspondents.  The  Bank  currently  has approximately  440  clients  for whom
correspondents provide a variety of services.

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND LEGISLATION

    Banking is a business  that depends on rate  differentials. In general,  the
difference between the interest rates paid by the Bank on its deposits and other
borrowings  and the interest rates received by the Bank on loans extended to its
clients and securities held in its  portfolio comprise the major portion of  the
Company's  earnings. These rates  are highly sensitive to  many factors that are
beyond the  control of  the Company  and the  Bank. Accordingly,  the  financial
position,  earnings and growth  of the Company  are subject to  the influence of
domestic and foreign economic conditions,  including such factors as  inflation,
recession and unemployment.

    The  commercial banking business is not only affected by prevailing economic
conditions but is  also influenced by  the monetary and  fiscal policies of  the
federal  government and  the policies  of regulatory  agencies, particularly the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve  Board").
The Federal Reserve Board implements national monetary policies (with objectives
such  as  curbing inflation  and  combating recession)  through  its open-market
operations in United  States Government  securities, by  adjusting the  required
level   of  reserves  for   depository  institutions  subject   to  its  reserve
requirements and by varying the federal  funds and discount rates applicable  to
borrowings  by depository institutions. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board
in these areas influence the growth of bank loans, investments and deposits  and
also  affect interest rates charged on loans,  earned on investments and paid on
deposits. The  nature and  impact on  the Company  and the  Bank of  any  future
changes in monetary and fiscal policies cannot be predicted.


    From time to time, legislation is enacted which has the effect of increasing
the  cost of  doing business,  limiting or  expanding permissible  activities or
affecting  the   competitive  balance   between   banks  and   other   financial
institutions.  Proposals  to  change  the  laws  and  regulations  governing the
operations and taxation  of banks,  bank holding companies  and other  financial
institutions  are  frequently  made  in the  U.S.  Congress,  in  the California
legislature and before various bank regulatory and other professional  agencies.
For example, legislation was recently introduced in the U.S. Congress that would
merge  the deposit insurance funds applicable  to banks and savings associations
and impose a  one-time assessment  on savings associations  to recapitalize  the
deposit   insurance  fund  applicable  to  savings  associations.  In  addition,
legislation  has  been  proposed  that   would  repeal  the  current   statutory
restrictions  on  affiliations between  banks  and securities  firms.  Under the
proposed legislation, bank holding companies would be allowed to control both  a
bank  and  a securities  affiliate,  which could  engage  in the  full  range of
investment banking activities, including corporate underwriting. The  likelihood
of  any major legislative changes and the  impact such changes might have on the
Company and the Bank cannot be  predicted. See "Item 1. Business --  Supervision
and Regulation."

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

    Bank  holding  companies  and  banks are  extensively  regulated  under both
federal and state law. Set forth below is a summary description of certain  laws
which relate to the regulation of the Company and the Bank. The description does
not  purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the
applicable laws and  regulations. The nature  and impact of  any future  changes
concerning the regulation of the Company and the Bank cannot be predicted.

    FORMAL SUPERVISORY ACTIONS

    During 1993, the Company and the Bank consented to formal supervisory orders
by  the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the Bank consented to a formal
supervisory order  by  the California  State  Banking Department.  These  orders
require,  among  other actions,  the  following: suspension  of  cash dividends;
restrictions on  transactions between  the Company  and the  Bank without  prior
regulatory  approval; development of a capital plan to ensure the Bank maintains
adequate capital levels subject to regulatory approval; development of plans  to
improve  the  quality  of  the  Bank's  loan  portfolio  through  collection  or
improvement of the credits within specified  time frames; changes to the  Bank's
loan  policies which require the Directors'  Loan Committee to approve all loans
to any one borrower exceeding $3.0 million and requiring the Board of  Directors
to  become more  actively involved in  loan portfolio  management and monitoring
activities; review of, and changes in, the Bank's loan policies to implement (i)
policies for controlling and monitoring credit concentrations, (ii) underwriting
standards for all  loan products, and  (iii) standards for  credit analysis  and
credit  file documentation; development  of an independent  loan review function
and related  loan  review  policies  and procedures;  development  of  Board  of
Directors  oversight programs  to establish  and maintain  effective control and
supervision of Management and major Bank operations and activities;  development
of  a plan, including  a written methodology, to  maintain an adequate allowance
for loan losses, defined  as a minimum  of 2.0% of  total loans; development  of
business  plans to  establish guidelines  for growth  and ensure  maintenance of
adequate capital  levels;  a  review and  evaluation  of  existing  compensation
practices and development of officer compensation policies and procedures by the
Boards of Directors of the Company and the Bank; policies requiring that changes
in  fees paid to directors  as well as bonuses  paid to executive officers first
receive regulatory approval; and development  of a detailed internal audit  plan
for approval by the Board of Directors of the Bank. The California State Banking
Department  order  further  requires the  Bank  to maintain  a  minimum tangible
equity-to-assets ratio of 6.5%.

    In addition, such plans, policies and procedures may not be amended  without
prior  regulatory approval. The Company and the Bank have taken steps to address
these requirements. The Company believes  compliance with these actions has  not
and  will not have  a material adverse impact  on the business  of the Bank, its
clients, or the Company. The Company and the Bank were in substantial compliance
with such orders at December 31, 1995.


    The following  discussions are  limited  by the  disclosures on  the  formal
supervisory actions discussed above.

    THE COMPANY

    The  Company, as a registered bank holding company, is subject to regulation
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHCA"). The Company
is required to file  with the Federal Reserve  Board quarterly, semi-annual  and
annual reports, and such additional information as the Federal Reserve Board may
require pursuant to the BHCA. The Federal Reserve Board may conduct examinations
of the Company and its subsidiaries.

    The Federal Reserve Board may require that the Company terminate an activity
or  terminate control of, liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries or affiliates
when the  Federal Reserve  Board believes  the activity  or the  control of  the
subsidiary  or affiliate constitutes a significant risk to the financial safety,
soundness or stability of any of  its banking subsidiaries. The Federal  Reserve
Board  also has  the authority  to regulate  provisions of  certain bank holding
company debt,  including the  authority  to impose  interest rate  ceilings  and
reserve requirements on such debt. Under certain circumstances, the Company must
file  written notice and obtain approval from the Federal Reserve Board prior to
purchasing or redeeming its equity securities.

    Under the BHCA and regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve Board, a  bank
holding  company and its non-banking  subsidiaries are prohibited from requiring
certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, lease or
sale of property or furnishing of services. Further, the Company is required  by
the  Federal Reserve  Board to maintain  certain minimum levels  of capital. See
"Item 1. Business -- Supervision and Regulation -- Capital Standards."

    The Company is required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal  Reserve
Board  for the acquisition  of more than  5.0% of the  outstanding shares of any
class of voting securities, or substantially all  of the assets, of any bank  or
bank  holding  company. Prior  approval  of the  Federal  Reserve Board  is also
required for the merger or consolidation of the Company and another bank holding
company.

    The  Company  is  prohibited  by  the  BHCA,  except  in  certain  instances
prescribed by statute, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of
more  than 5.0% of  the outstanding voting shares  of any company  that is not a
bank or  bank  holding company  and  from  engaging directly  or  indirectly  in
activities  other  than  those  of banking,  managing  or  controlling  banks or
furnishing services to its  subsidiaries. However, the  Company, subject to  the
prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, may engage in, or acquire shares of
companies engaged in, activities that are deemed by the Federal Reserve Board to
be  so closely related  to banking or managing  or controlling banks  as to be a
proper incident thereto. In making  any such determination, the Federal  Reserve
Board  considers whether the performance of such activities by the Company or an
affiliate can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such  as
greater convenience, increased competition or gains in efficiency, that outweigh
possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or
unfair  competition,  conflicts of  interest or  unsound banking  practices. The
Federal Reserve  Board is  also empowered  to differentiate  between  activities
commenced  "de novo"  and activities  commenced by  acquisition, in  whole or in
part, of a going concern.

    Under Federal Reserve Board regulations, a bank holding company is  required
to  serve as  a source  of financial and  managerial strength  to its subsidiary
banks and may  not conduct its  operations in  an unsafe or  unsound manner.  In
addition,  it is the Federal Reserve Board's  policy that in serving as a source
of strength to its subsidiary banks,  a bank holding company should stand  ready
to  use available resources to provide  adequate capital funds to its subsidiary
banks during periods of  financial stress or adversity  and should maintain  the
financial   flexibility  and  capital-raising   capacity  to  obtain  additional
resources for assisting its subsidiary  banks. A bank holding company's  failure
to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks
will  generally be considered by  the Federal Reserve Board  to be an unsafe and
unsound banking practice or a violation of the


Federal Reserve Board's regulations or both.  This doctrine has become known  as
the  "source of strength" doctrine.  Although the U.S. Court  of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit  found the  Federal Reserve  Board's source  of strength  doctrine
invalid  in 1990,  stating that  the Federal Reserve  Board had  no authority to
assert the  doctrine under  the BHCA,  the  decision, which  is not  binding  on
federal  courts outside  the Fifth  Circuit, was  recently reversed  by the U.S.
Supreme Court on  procedural grounds.  The validity  of the  source of  strength
doctrine   is  likely  to  continue  to  be  the  subject  of  litigation  until
definitively resolved by the courts or by the U.S. Congress.

    The Company is  also a bank  holding company within  the meaning of  Section
3700 of the California Financial Code. As such, the Company and its subsidiaries
are  subject to examination  by, and may  be required to  file reports with, the
California State Banking Department.

    Finally, the Company is  subject to the  periodic reporting requirements  of
the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as  amended, including but not limited to,
filing annual,  quarterly and  other  current reports  with the  Securities  and
Exchange Commission.

    THE BANK

    The  Bank, as a California state-chartered bank  and a member of the Federal
Reserve System,  is subject  to primary  supervision, periodic  examination  and
regulation  by the California Superintendent of Banks (the "Superintendent") and
the Federal Reserve Board. If,  as a result of an  examination of the Bank,  the
Federal  Reserve Board  should determine  that the  financial condition, capital
resources, asset  quality, earnings  prospects, management,  liquidity or  other
aspects  of the  Bank's operations  are unsatisfactory or  that the  Bank or its
Management is violating or has violated any law or regulation, various  remedies
are  available to the Federal Reserve Board.  Such remedies include the power to
enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices,  to require affirmative action to  correct
any   conditions  resulting  from  any  violation   or  practice,  to  issue  an
administrative order that can be judicially  enforced, to direct an increase  in
capital, to restrict the growth of the Bank, to assess civil monetary penalties,
to  remove officers and directors and ultimately to terminate the Bank's deposit
insurance, which  for  a  California  state-chartered bank  would  result  in  a
revocation  of  the Bank's  charter.  The Superintendent  has  many of  the same
remedial powers. As noted  above, the Bank has  consented to formal  supervisory
actions  by both the California State Banking Department and the Federal Reserve
Bank of San Francisco.

    The deposits of the Bank  are insured by the FDIC  in the manner and to  the
extent provided by law. For this protection, the Bank pays a quarterly statutory
assessment.  See "Item 1. Business -- Supervision and Regulation -- Premiums for
Deposit Insurance." Because  the Bank's deposits  are insured by  the FDIC,  the
Bank is also subject to certain FDIC rules and regulations.

    Various  requirements  and  restrictions  under the  laws  of  the  State of
California and the United  States affect the operations  of the Bank. State  and
federal   statutes  and  regulations  relate  to  many  aspects  of  the  Bank's
operations, including, but not limited  to, reserves against deposits,  interest
rates  payable  on  deposits,  loans,  investments,  mergers  and  acquisitions,
borrowings, dividends,  locations of  branch offices  and capital  requirements.
Further, the Bank is required to maintain certain minimum levels of capital. See
"Item 1. Business -- Supervision and Regulation -- Capital Standards."

    DIVIDENDS AND OTHER TRANSFERS OF FUNDS

    The  Company is  a legal  entity separate  and distinct  from the  Bank. The
Company's ability to pay cash dividends  is limited by California state law.  As
noted  above, the Company and the Bank  consented to formal regulatory orders by
the Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco, and the  Bank consented to a  formal
regulatory order by the California State Banking Department. Under these orders,
the  Company  is prohibited  from paying  cash  dividends, and  the Bank  may be
restricted from  transferring  funds to  the  Company without  prior  regulatory
approval.

    In  addition to the limitations imposed  under the formal supervisory orders
noted above, there  are statutory and  regulatory limitations on  the amount  of
dividends which may be paid to the Company by the Bank. California law restricts
the   amount  available   for  cash   dividends  by   state-chartered  banks  to


the lesser of  retained earnings or  the bank's  net income for  its last  three
fiscal  years (less any distributions to  shareholders made during such period).
Notwithstanding this restriction,  a bank may,  with the prior  approval of  the
Superintendent,  pay a cash dividend  in an amount not  exceeding the greater of
the retained earnings of the bank, the net income for such bank's last preceding
fiscal year and the net income of the bank for its current fiscal year.

    As a Federal  Reserve member  bank, there are  separate limitations  imposed
under  applicable Federal Reserve  Board regulations with  respect to the Bank's
ability to pay dividends  to the Company. In  particular, the prior approval  of
the  Federal Reserve Board is required if the total of all dividends declared by
a Federal  Reserve member  bank in  any  calendar year  exceeds the  bank's  net
profits  (as defined) for that  year combined with its  retained net profits (as
defined) for the preceding two years, less any transfers to surplus or to a fund
for the retirement of preferred stock. Such approval authority may be  delegated
to the local Federal Reserve Bank under certain circumstances.

    The  Federal Reserve Board also has the  authority to prohibit the Bank from
engaging in activities that, in the Federal Reserve Board's opinion,  constitute
unsafe  or  unsound  practices  in  conducting  its  business.  It  is possible,
depending upon  the  financial condition  of  the  bank in  question  and  other
factors,  that  the  Federal Reserve  Board  could  assert that  the  payment of
dividends or other  payments might, under  some circumstances, be  an unsafe  or
unsound  practice. Further, the Federal Reserve Board has established guidelines
with respect to  the maintenance of  appropriate levels of  capital by banks  or
bank holding companies under its jurisdiction. Compliance with the standards set
forth  in such guidelines and the restrictions  that are or may be imposed under
the prompt corrective action provisions of federal law could limit the amount of
dividends which the Bank or the  Company may pay. The Superintendent may  impose
similar  limitations on the conduct  of California-chartered banks. As discussed
above, both  the Company  and  the Bank  have  consented to  formal  supervisory
actions by their regulators. See "Item 1. Business -- Supervision and Regulation
- --  Prompt Corrective Action and Other Enforcement Mechanisms," and "Supervision
and Regulation  --  Capital Standards"  for  a discussion  of  these  additional
restrictions on capital distributions.

    The  Bank is subject to  certain restrictions imposed by  federal law on any
extensions of credit to, or the issuance  of a guarantee or letter of credit  on
behalf  of, the Company or other affiliates, the purchase of, or investments in,
stock or other securities thereof, the  taking of such securities as  collateral
for  loans, and the purchase of assets  of the Company or other affiliates. Such
restrictions prevent the Company and  such other affiliates from borrowing  from
the  Bank unless the  loans are secured by  marketable obligations of designated
amounts. Further, such secured loans  and investments by the  Bank to or in  the
Company  or to or in any other  affiliate are limited, individually, to 10.0% of
the Bank's capital  and surplus (as  defined by federal  regulations), and  such
secured  loans and investments  are limited, in  the aggregate, to  20.0% of the
Bank's capital and surplus (as  defined by federal regulations). California  law
also  imposes certain  restrictions with  respect to  transactions involving the
Company and other controlling  persons of the  Bank. Additional restrictions  on
transactions  with  affiliates  may be  imposed  on  the Bank  under  the prompt
corrective  action  provisions  of  federal  law.  See  "Item  1.  Business   --
Supervision  and Regulation  -- Prompt  Corrective Action  and Other Enforcement
Mechanisms."

    CAPITAL STANDARDS

    The Federal Reserve Board has adopted minimum risk-based capital  guidelines
intended  to  provide a  measure of  capital  that reflects  the degree  of risk
associated with  a  banking  organization's  operations  for  both  transactions
reported  on the balance sheet as assets, and transactions, such as commitments,
letters of credit and recourse  arrangements, which are recorded as  off-balance
sheet  items.  Under  these  guidelines, dollar  amounts  of  assets  and credit
equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items  are multiplied by one of  several
risk  adjustment percentages, which  range from 0.0% for  assets with low credit
risk, such  as certain  U.S.  Treasury securities,  to  100.0% for  assets  with
relatively high credit risk, such as business loans.


    A  banking organization's risk-based capital ratios are obtained by dividing
its qualifying  capital  by  its total  risk-adjusted  assets.  Federal  banking
regulators measure risk-adjusted assets, which includes off-balance sheet items,
against  both total qualifying  capital (the sum  of Tier 1  capital and limited
amounts of Tier 2 capital) and Tier 1 capital. Tier 1 capital consists primarily
of common  stock, retained  earnings,  noncumulative perpetual  preferred  stock
(cumulative  perpetual preferred stock for  bank holding companies) and minority
interests in certain subsidiaries, less  most intangible assets. Tier 2  capital
consists of the allowance for loan losses, cumulative preferred stock, long-term
preferred  stock, eligible term subordinated  debt and certain other instruments
with some characteristics of equity. The inclusion of elements of Tier 2 capital
is subject to certain other requirements and limitations of the federal  banking
agencies.  The federal  banking agencies require  a minimum  ratio of qualifying
total capital to  risk-adjusted assets of  8.0% and  a minimum ratio  of Tier  1
capital to risk-adjusted assets of 4.0%.

    In addition to the risk-based capital guidelines, federal banking regulators
require  banking organizations to maintain a minimum amount of Tier 1 capital to
total quarterly average assets, referred to as the Tier 1 leverage ratio. For  a
banking organization rated in the highest of the five categories used by federal
banking  regulators to rate banking organizations, the minimum leverage ratio of
Tier 1  capital to  total quarterly  average  assets is  3.0%. For  all  banking
organizations not rated in the highest category, the minimum leverage ratio must
be  at least 100 to 200 basis points above the 3.0% minimum, or 4.0% to 5.0%. In
addition to  these  uniform risk-based  capital  guidelines and  leverage  ratio
requirements that apply across the industry, the federal banking regulators have
the  discretion  to set  individual  minimum capital  requirements  for specific
institutions at rates significantly above the minimum guidelines and ratios.

    In August  1995,  the federal  banking  agencies adopted  final  regulations
specifying  that the  agencies will  include, in  their evaluations  of a bank's
capital adequacy, an  assessment of  the exposure  to declines  in the  economic
value  of  the  bank's capital  due  to  changes in  interest  rates.  The final
regulations, however, do not include  a measurement framework for assessing  the
level  of a  bank's exposure to  interest rate risk,  which is the  subject of a
proposed policy statement  issued by the  federal banking agencies  concurrently
with  the final  regulations. The proposal  would measure interest  rate risk in
relation to the effect of a 200  basis point change in market interest rates  on
the  economic value of  a bank. Banks  with high levels  of measured exposure or
weak management systems generally  will be required  to hold additional  capital
for  interest rate risk. The specific amount of capital that may be needed would
be determined  on a  case-by-case  basis by  the  examiner and  the  appropriate
federal banking agency.

    In  January 1995, the federal banking  agencies issued a final rule relating
to capital standards and the risks arising from the concentration of credit  and
nontraditional  banking activities. Institutions  which have significant amounts
of their  assets  concentrated in  high  risk loans  or  nontraditional  banking
activities,  and who fail to adequately manage  these risks, will be required to
set aside capital  in excess  of the  regulatory minimums.  The federal  banking
agencies have not imposed any quantitative assessment for determining when these
risks  are significant,  but have identified  these issues  as important factors
they will review in assessing an individual bank's capital adequacy.

    In December 1993, the federal banking agencies issued an interagency  policy
statement  on the allowance for loan and lease losses which, among other things,
establishes certain benchmark  percentages of loan  loss reserves to  classified
assets.  The benchmark  set forth by  such policy  statement is the  sum of: (a)
100.0% of assets classified loss; (b)  50.0% of assets classified doubtful;  (c)
15.0% of assets classified substandard; and (d) estimated credit losses on other
assets over the upcoming 12 months.

    Federally  supervised banks and savings  associations are currently required
to report  deferred  tax  assets  in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards (SFAS) No. 109. See "Item 1. Business -- Recent Accounting
Pronouncements." The  federal  banking  agencies recently  issued  final  rules,
effective  April 1, 1995, which limit the amount of deferred tax assets that are
allowable in computing  an institution's  regulatory capital.  The standard  has
been in effect on an interim basis


since  March 1993. Deferred  tax assets that  can be realized  for taxes paid in
prior carryback years and  from future reversals  of existing taxable  temporary
differences  are generally  not limited.  Deferred tax  assets that  can only be
realized through  future taxable  earnings are  limited for  regulatory  capital
purposes to the lesser of (i) the amount that can be realized within one year of
the  quarter-end report date, or (ii) 10.0% of Tier 1 Capital. The amount of any
deferred tax asset in excess of this limit would be excluded from Tier 1 Capital
and total assets for purposes of regulatory risk-based capital calculations.

    Future changes in regulations or  practices could further reduce the  amount
of  capital recognized  for purposes  of capital  adequacy. Such  a change could
affect the ability of the Bank to grow and could restrict the amount of profits,
if any, available for the payment of dividends.

    The following table presents  the capital ratios for  the Bank, compared  to
its minimum regulatory capital requirements, as of December 31, 1995:



- ------------------------
(1)  Required under the  formal supervisory agreement  with the California State
    Banking Department.

    PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION AND OTHER ENFORCEMENT MECHANISMS

    Federal laws require each federal  banking agency to take prompt  corrective
action  to resolve the  problems of insured  depository institutions, including,
but not limited  to, those  institutions which  fall below  one or  more of  the
prescribed  minimum  required capital  ratios.  Such laws  require  each federal
banking agency to promulgate regulations defining the following five  categories
in which an insured depository institution will be placed, based on the level of
its    capital   ratios:    "well   capitalized;"    "adequately   capitalized;"
"undercapitalized;"   "significantly    undercapitalized;"    and    "critically
undercapitalized."

    In  September  1992,  the  federal  banking  agencies  issued  uniform final
regulations implementing the prompt corrective action provisions of federal law.
An insured depository institution generally will be classified in the  following
categories based on the capital measures indicated below:



- ------------------------
(1) Tangible equity to total assets less than 2.0%.

    An  institution that, based  upon its capital levels,  is classified as well
capitalized, adequately  capitalized,  or  undercapitalized may  be  treated  as
though  it were in  the next lower  capital category if  the appropriate federal
banking agency, after  notice and  opportunity for hearing,  determines that  an
unsafe  or  unsound condition  or an  unsafe or  unsound practice  warrants such
treatment. At  each successive  lower capital  category, an  insured  depository
institution  is  subject to  more  restrictions. The  federal  banking agencies,
however, may not treat an institution as critically undercapitalized unless  its
capital ratio actually warrants such treatment.


    The  law prohibits  insured depository  institutions from  paying management
fees to  any controlling  persons or,  with certain  limited exceptions,  making
capital  distributions,  if  after  such transaction  the  institution  would be
undercapitalized. If an insured  depository institution is undercapitalized,  it
will  be closely monitored by the appropriate federal banking agency, subject to
asset growth restrictions and required  to obtain prior regulatory approval  for
acquisitions,   branching   and  engaging   in  new   lines  of   business.  Any
undercapitalized  depository  institution  must  submit  an  acceptable  capital
restoration  plan to the appropriate federal banking agency within 45 days after
becoming undercapitalized. The appropriate federal banking agency cannot  accept
a  capital restoration plan  unless, among other things,  it determines that the
plan (i) specifies  the steps  the institution  will take  to become  adequately
capitalized,  (ii) is  based on  realistic assumptions,  and (iii)  is likely to
succeed in restoring the depository institution's capital.

    In  addition,  each  company  controlling  an  undercapitalized   depository
institution  must guarantee  that the institution  will comply  with the capital
restoration plan  until  the  depository  institution  has  been  classified  as
adequately  capitalized  on an  average basis  during  each of  four consecutive
calendar quarters and must otherwise provide adequate assurances of performance.
The aggregate liability of  such guarantee is  limited to the  lesser of (a)  an
amount  equal to 5.0% of  the depository institution's total  assets at the time
the institution became undercapitalized, or (b) the amount which is necessary to
bring the institution into compliance  with all capital standards applicable  to
such institution as of the time the institution fails to comply with its capital
restoration plan. Finally, the appropriate federal banking agency may impose any
of  the additional restrictions or sanctions that it may impose on significantly
undercapitalized institutions if it determines that such action will further the
purpose of the prompt corrective action provisions.

    An insured depository institution that is significantly undercapitalized, or
is undercapitalized and fails to submit, or in a material respect, to implement,
an acceptable capital  restoration plan, is  subject to additional  restrictions
and  sanctions. These include, among  other things: (i) a  forced sale of voting
shares to raise capital or,  if grounds exist for  appointment of a receiver  or
conservator, a forced merger; (ii) restrictions on transactions with affiliates;
(iii)  further  limitations on  interest rates  paid  on deposits;  (iv) further
restrictions on growth or required shrinkage; (v) modification or termination of
specified  activities;  (vi)  replacement  of  directors  or  senior   executive
officers;  (vii)  prohibitions on  the  receipt of  deposits  from correspondent
institutions; (viii)  restrictions  on  capital  distributions  by  the  holding
companies of such institutions; (ix) required divestiture of subsidiaries by the
institution; and (x) other restrictions as determined by the appropriate federal
banking agency.

    Although  the appropriate federal banking agency has discretion to determine
which of the foregoing restrictions or sanctions  it will seek to impose, it  is
required  to force  a sale  of voting shares  or merger,  impose restrictions on
affiliate transactions,  and  impose restrictions  on  rates paid  on  deposits,
unless  it determines  that such  actions would not  further the  purpose of the
prompt corrective  action provisions.  In addition,  without the  prior  written
approval   of   the  appropriate   federal   banking  agency,   a  significantly
undercapitalized institution  may not  pay  any bonus  to its  senior  executive
officers or provide compensation to any of them at a rate that exceeds each such
officer's  average  rate  of base  compensation  during the  12  calendar months
preceding the month in which the institution became undercapitalized.

    Further restrictions and  sanctions are  required to be  imposed on  insured
depository  institutions that  are critically  undercapitalized. For  example, a
critically undercapitalized  institution  generally  would  be  prohibited  from
engaging  in  any material  transaction  other than  in  the ordinary  course of
business  without  prior  regulatory  approval  and  could  not,  with   certain
exceptions,  make any payment of principal  or interest on its subordinated debt
beginning 60 days after becoming critically undercapitalized. Most  importantly,
however,  except under  limited circumstances,  the appropriate  federal banking
agency, not later than 90 days  after an insured depository institution  becomes
critically  undercapitalized, is required  to appoint a  conservator or receiver
for the institution. The board of


directors of  an insured  depository  institution would  not  be liable  to  the
institution's  shareholders or  creditors for  consenting in  good faith  to the
appointment of  a receiver  or conservator  or to  an acquisition  or merger  as
required by the federal regulators.

    In addition to measures taken under the prompt corrective action provisions,
commercial banking organizations may be subject to potential enforcement actions
by  the federal regulators  for unsafe or unsound  practices in conducting their
businesses or  for violations  of any  law, rule,  regulation or  any  condition
imposed  in writing  by the  agency or  any written  agreement with  the agency.
Enforcement actions may include the imposition of a conservator or receiver, the
issuance of  a cease  and desist  order  that can  be judicially  enforced,  the
termination  of deposit insurance (in the case of a depository institution), the
imposition of civil monetary penalties,  the issuance of directives to  increase
capital, the issuance of formal and informal agreements, the issuance of removal
and   prohibition   orders  against   institution-affiliated  parties   and  the
enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders based upon
a judicial  determination that  the agency  would be  harmed if  such  equitable
relief was not granted.

    SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS STANDARDS

    In  July  1995,  the  federal  banking  agencies  adopted  final  guidelines
establishing standards  for safety  and soundness,  as required  by the  Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (FDICIA). The guidelines set forth
operational  and managerial standards relating to internal controls, information
systems and  internal audit  systems, loan  documentation, credit  underwriting,
interest  rate  exposure,  asset  growth and  compensation,  fees  and benefits.
Guidelines for  asset quality  and earnings  standards will  be adopted  in  the
future.  The guidelines  establish the safety  and soundness  standards that the
agencies will  use  to  identify  and address  problems  at  insured  depository
institutions  before capital becomes impaired. If an institution fails to comply
with a safety and soundness standard, the appropriate federal banking agency may
require the  institution  to submit  a  compliance  plan. Failure  to  submit  a
compliance  plan  or to  implement an  accepted plan  may result  in enforcement
action.

    In December  1992, the  federal banking  agencies issued  final  regulations
prescribing  uniform guidelines for real  estate lending. The regulations, which
became effective on March 19,  1993, require insured depository institutions  to
adopt  written policies establishing standards, consistent with such guidelines,
for extensions of credit secured by real estate. The policies must address  loan
portfolio  management, underwriting  standards and loan-to-value  limits that do
not exceed the supervisory limits prescribed by the regulations.

    Appraisals  for  "real  estate-related   financial  transactions"  must   be
conducted   by  either  state   certified  or  state   licensed  appraisers  for
transactions in  excess  of  certain amounts.  State  certified  appraisers  are
required: for all transactions with a transaction value of $1.0 million or more;
for  all  nonresidential  transactions  valued  at  $250,000  or  more;  and for
"complex" 1-4  family  residential  properties  of $250,000  or  more.  A  state
licensed  appraiser is  required for  all other  appraisals. However, appraisals
performed in connection with "federal-related transactions" must now comply with
the federal agencies' appraisal standards. Federal-related transactions include:
the sale,  lease, purchase,  investment in,  or exchange  of, real  property  or
interests  in real property; the financing  or refinancing of real property; and
the use of real property or interests in real property as security for a loan or
investment, including mortgage-backed securities.

    PREMIUMS FOR DEPOSIT INSURANCE

    Federal law has established several mechanisms to increase funds to  protect
deposits  insured by the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF) administered by the FDIC. The
FDIC is  authorized  to  borrow up  to  $30.0  billion from  the  United  States
Treasury,  up  to 90.0%  of  the fair  market  value of  assets  of institutions
acquired by  the FDIC  as receiver  from the  Federal Financing  Bank, and  from
depository  institutions that are members of  the BIF. Any borrowings not repaid
by asset sales are  to be repaid through  insurance premiums assessed to  member
institutions.  Such  premiums must  be sufficient  to  repay any  borrowed funds
within 15  years and  provide insurance  fund reserves  of $1.25  for each  $100


of  insured  deposits.  The  result  of these  provisions  is  that  the premium
assessment rate on  deposits of BIF  members could increase  in the future.  The
FDIC also has authority to impose special assessments against insured deposits.

    The  FDIC implemented a  final risk-based assessment  system, as required by
FDICIA,  effective  January  1,  1994,  under  which  an  institution's  premium
assessment  is based  on the  probability that  the deposit  insurance fund will
incur a loss  with respect to  the institution,  the likely amount  of any  such
loss,  and the revenue needs of the deposit insurance fund. As long as the BIF's
reserve ratio is less  than the specified "designated  reserve ratio" of  1.25%,
the total amount raised from BIF members by the risk-based assessment system may
not  be less than the amount that would be raised if the assessment rate for all
BIF members were  23 cents per  $100 of deposits.  On August 8,  1995, the  FDIC
announced  that the designated reserve ratio had been achieved and, accordingly,
issued final regulations adopting an assessment rate schedule for BIF members of
4 cents to 31 cents per $100 of deposits effective on June 1, 1995. On  November
14, 1995, the FDIC further reduced deposit insurance premiums to a range of 0 to
27  cents per  $100 of  deposits effective  for the  assessment period beginning
January 1, 1996.

    Under the risk-based assessment  system, a BIF  member institution, such  as
the  Bank,  is  categorized into  one  of  the three  capital  categories: "well
capitalized;" "adequately capitalized;" and "undercapitalized," and one of three
categories based on supervisory evaluations by its primary federal regulator (in
the Bank's case, the  FDIC). The three  supervisory categories are:  financially
sound  with only a few minor  weaknesses (Group A); demonstrates weaknesses that
could result in  significant deterioration  (Group B); and  poses a  substantial
probability  of loss (Group  C). The capital  ratios used by  the FDIC to define
"well capitalized,"  "adequately capitalized,"  and "undercapitalized"  are  the
same  as in the FDIC's prompt  corrective action regulations. The BIF assessment
rates are summarized below; assessment figures  are expressed in terms of  cents
per $100 in deposits.

    ASSESSMENT RATES EFFECTIVE THROUGH THE FIRST HALF OF 1995



    ASSESSMENT RATES EFFECTIVE THROUGH THE SECOND HALF OF 1995



    ASSESSMENT RATES EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1996



- ------------------------
*    Subject  to a statutory minimum  assessment of $2,000  per year (which also
    applies to all other assessment risk classifications).

    At December 31, 1995,  the Bank's assessment rate  was equivalent to a  well
capitalized, group B institution.

    A  number of proposals have recently been introduced in the U.S. Congress to
address the  disparity  in  bank  and  thrift  deposit  insurance  premiums.  On
September   19,  1995,   legislation  was   approved  by   the  U.S.   House  of
Representatives Banking Committee  that would,  among other  things: (i)  impose


a   requirement  on  all  Savings   Association  Insurance  Fund  (SAIF)  member
institutions to  fully  recapitalize  the  SAIF by  paying  a  one-time  special
assessment  of approximately 85 cents per $100 in deposits as of March 31, 1995,
which  assessment  would  be  due  as  of  January  1,  1996;  (ii)  spread  the
responsibility   for   Financing  Corporation   interest  payments   across  all
FDIC-insured institutions on  a pro-rata basis,  subject to certain  exceptions;
(iii) require that deposit insurance premium assessment rates applicable to SAIF
member  institutions be no less than  deposit insurance premium assessment rates
applicable to BIF member institutions; (iv) provide for a merger of the BIF  and
the  SAIF as of January 1, 1998;  (v) require savings associations to convert to
state or  national  bank charters  by  January  1, 1998;  (vi)  require  savings
associations  to  divest any  activities  not permissible  for  commercial banks
within five years; (vii)  eliminate the bad-debt  reserve deduction for  savings
associations,  although savings associations would  not be required to recapture
into  income  their  accumulated  bad-debt  reserves;  (viii)  provide  for  the
conversion  of savings and loan holding companies into bank holding companies as
of January  1,  1998,  although  unitary  savings  and  loan  holding  companies
authorized  to engage  in activities  as of September  13, 1995  would have such
authority grandfathered (subject to certain  limitations); and (ix) abolish  the
Office  of Thrift Supervision (OTS) and  transfer the OTS's regulatory authority
to the other federal banking agencies.  The legislation would also provide  that
any  savings  association that  would become  undercapitalized under  the prompt
corrective action  regulations  as  a  result of  the  special  deposit  premium
assessment  could be exempted from payment  of the assessment, provided that the
institution would continue to be subject to the payment of periodic  assessments
under the current rate schedule following the recapitalization of the SAIF.

    The  U.S. Senate Banking Committee  adopted similar legislation on September
20, 1995. The  U.S. Senate proposal  would similarly impose  a one-time  special
assessment  on  savings  associations in  order  to recapitalize  the  SAIF, and
includes provisions similar  to certain others  contained in the  U.S. House  of
Representatives   legislation.   Unlike  the   U.S.  House   of  Representatives
legislation, however,  the U.S.  Senate bill  does not  include a  comprehensive
approach for merging the savings association and commercial bank charters.

    In  light of the  different proposals currently  under consideration and the
general uncertainty  of  the  legislative  process,  Management  cannot  predict
whether  the proposed legislation  will be passed or  in what form. Accordingly,
the effect  of any  such  legislation on  the Company  and  the Bank  cannot  be
determined.

    INTERSTATE BANKING AND BRANCHING

    In   September  1994,  the  Riegel-Neal  Interstate  Banking  and  Branching
Efficiency Act of 1994 (the "Interstate  Act") became law. Under the  Interstate
Act, beginning one year after the date of enactment, a bank holding company that
is  adequately capitalized  and managed  may obtain  approval under  the BHCA to
acquire an existing bank located in another state without regard to state law. A
bank holding company would not be permitted to make such an acquisition if, upon
consummation, it  would control  (a) more  than  10.0% of  the total  amount  of
deposits  of insured depository institutions in  the United States, or (b) 30.0%
or more of the deposits of insured depository institutions in the state in which
the bank is located. A state may limit the percentage of total deposits that may
be held in that state by any one bank or bank holding company if application  of
such   limitation  does   not  discriminate   against  out-of-state   banks.  An
out-of-state bank holding company may not acquire a state bank in existence  for
less  than a minimum length  of time that may be  prescribed by state law except
that a state may not impose more than a five year existence requirement.

    The Interstate Act also permits, beginning June 1, 1997, mergers of  insured
banks located in different states and conversion of the branches of the acquired
bank   into  branches  of  the  resulting  bank.  Each  state  may  permit  such
combinations earlier than June  1, 1997, and may  adopt legislation to  prohibit
interstate  mergers after  that date in  that state  or in other  states by that
state's  banks.  The  same  concentration  limits  discussed  in  the  preceding
paragraph  apply. The Interstate  Act also permits  a national or  state bank to
establish branches in a state other than its home state if permitted by the laws
of that state, subject to the same  requirements and conditions as for a  merger
transaction.


    In   October  1995,  California  adopted  "opt  in"  legislation  under  the
Interstate Act that permits out-of-state banks to acquire California banks  that
satisfy   a  five-year  minimum  age  requirement  (subject  to  exceptions  for
supervisory transactions) by means  of merger or  purchases of assets,  although
entry  through acquisition of individual branches of California institutions and
"de novo" branching into California  are not permitted. Although the  Interstate
Act  and the California branching statute  will likely increase competition from
out-of-state banks in the markets in  which the Company operates, Management  is
unable  to assess  the impact  that such increased  competition may  have on the
Company's operations.

    COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT AND FAIR LENDING DEVELOPMENTS

    The Bank  is subject  to  certain fair  lending requirements  and  reporting
obligations   involving   home   mortgage  lending   operations   and  Community
Reinvestment Act  (CRA)  activities.  The CRA  generally  requires  the  federal
banking  agencies to evaluate  the record of a  financial institution in meeting
the credit needs  of its local  communities, including low  and moderate  income
neighborhoods. In addition to substantial penalties and corrective measures that
may  be  required for  a violation  of  certain fair  lending laws,  the federal
banking agencies may  take compliance with  such laws and  CRA obligations  into
account  when regulating and  supervising other activities.  The Federal Reserve
Board has rated the Bank "satisfactory" in complying with its CRA obligations.

    In March 1994, the Federal Interagency  Task Force on Fair Lending issued  a
policy  statement on discrimination  in lending. The  policy statement describes
the three methods that federal agencies will use to prove discrimination:  overt
evidence  of discrimination;  evidence of  disparate treatment;  and evidence of
disparate impact.  In  May  1995,  the federal  banking  agencies  issued  final
regulations  which change the  manner in which they  measure a bank's compliance
with its  CRA  obligations.  The final  regulations  adopt  a  performance-based
evaluation  system which  bases CRA ratings  on an  institution's actual lending
service  and  investment  performance  rather  than  the  extent  to  which  the
institution conducts needs assessments, documents community outreach or complies
with other procedural requirements.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

    In  December 1990,  the Financial  Accounting Standards  Board (FASB) issued
SFAS No. 106,  "Employers' Accounting  for Post-Retirement  Benefits Other  Than
Pensions"  effective  for fiscal  years beginning  after  December 15,  1992. In
November 1992,  the  FASB  issued  SFAS  No.  112,  "Employers'  Accounting  For
Post-Employment  Benefits" effective  for fiscal years  beginning after December
15, 1993.  SFAS No.  106 and  SFAS No.  112 focus  primarily on  post-retirement
health care benefits. The Company does not provide post-retirement benefits, and
SFAS  No. 106  and SFAS  No. 112  have no  impact on  the consolidated financial
position or results of operations of the Company.

    In December 1991,  the FASB  issued SFAS  No. 107,  "Disclosures about  Fair
Value  of  Financial Instruments,"  which was  effective for  the Company  as of
December 31, 1992. SFAS No.  107 requires financial intermediaries to  disclose,
either  in the body of their financial  statements or in the accompanying notes,
the "fair  value" of  financial  instruments for  which  it is  "practicable  to
estimate that value." SFAS No. 107 defines "fair value" as the amount at which a
financial instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing
parties,  other than in a  forced or liquidation sale.  Quoted market prices, if
available, are deemed the best evidence  of the fair value of such  instruments.
Most deposit and loan instruments issued by financial intermediaries are subject
to  SFAS No.  107, and  it requires financial  statement disclosure  of the fair
value of most of the assets and liabilities of financial intermediaries such  as
the  Company and the Bank. The disclosures  required by SFAS No. 107 at December
31, 1995  are presented  in  Note 11  to  the Company's  consolidated  financial
statements.   See  "Item  8.  Financial   Statements  and  Supplementary  Data."
Management  is  unable  to  predict   what  effect,  if  any,  such   disclosure
requirements  could have on the market price  of the common stock of the Company
or its ability to raise funds in the financial markets.

    In February  1992, the  FASB issued  SFAS No.  109, "Accounting  for  Income
Taxes,"  which superseded SFAS No. 96 of the same title. SFAS No. 109, which was
adopted by the Company on


January 1,  1993, employs  an asset  and liability  approach in  accounting  for
income  taxes payable or refundable at the date of the financial statements as a
result of all events that have  been recognized in the financial statements  and
as  measured by the provisions  of enacted tax laws.  There was no cumulative or
current period effect  of adopting SFAS  No. 109 on  the Company's  consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

    In  May 1993,  the FASB  issued SFAS No.  114, "Accounting  by Creditors for
Impairment of a  Loan." SFAS No.  114 prescribes the  recognition criterion  for
loan impairment and the measurement methods for certain impaired loans and loans
whose  terms are modified  in troubled debt restructurings.  SFAS No. 114 states
that a loan is impaired  when it is probable that  a creditor will be unable  to
collect all principal and interest amounts due according to the contracted terms
of  the  loan  agreement.  A  creditor  is  required  to  measure  impairment by
discounting expected future cash flows at the loan's effective interest rate, by
reference to an observable market price, or by the fair value of the  collateral
if  the loan is  collateral-dependent. SFAS No. 114  also clarifies the existing
accounting for in-substance foreclosures by stating that a  collateral-dependent
real estate loan would be reported as other real estate owned only if the lender
had taken possession of collateral.

    SFAS  No. 118, "Accounting by  Creditors for Impairment of  a Loan -- Income
Recognition and Disclosures"  amended SFAS No.  114 to allow  a creditor to  use
existing  methods  for  recognizing  interest income  on  an  impaired  loan. To
accomplish that, SFAS  No. 118 eliminated  the provisions in  SFAS No. 114  that
described  how a creditor should report income on an impaired loan. SFAS No. 118
did not change the provisions in SFAS No. 114 that require a creditor to measure
impairment based on the present value  of expected future cash flows  discounted
at  the loan's  effective interest  rate, or  as a  practical expedient,  at the
observable market price of the loan or  the fair value of the collateral if  the
loan  is collateral-dependent. SFAS No.  118 amended the disclosure requirements
in SFAS No. 114 to require information about the recorded investments in certain
impaired loans and about  how a creditor recognizes  interest income related  to
those  impaired loans. The Company adopted SFAS No. 114 and SFAS No. 118 for the
year ended December 31, 1995. The adoption of these two Statements did not  have
a  material adverse effect  on the Company's  consolidated financial position or
results of operations.

    In May  1993,  the  FASB  issued  SFAS  No.  115,  "Accounting  For  Certain
Investments  in  Debt  and  Equity  Securities"  addressing  the  accounting and
reporting for investments  in equity securities  that have readily  determinable
fair  values and for  all investments in debt  securities. These investments are
classified in three categories and accounted for as follows: (i) debt securities
that the entity has the ability and positive intent to hold to maturity would be
classified as "held-to-maturity" and reported  at amortized cost; (ii) debt  and
equity  securities  that are  held  for current  resale  would be  classified as
trading securities and reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and  losses
included  in the results of operations; and (iii) debt and equity securities not
classified as  either securities  "held-to-maturity"  or as  trading  securities
would  be classified  as securities  "available-for-sale," and  reported at fair
value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from the results of  operations
and  reported  as  a separate  component  of shareholders'  equity.  The Company
adopted SFAS No. 115 on January 1, 1994. The cumulative effect of this change in
accounting principle  is  reflected in  the  statement of  shareholders'  equity
presented  in  the Company's  consolidated  financial statements.  See  "Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

    In October 1994, the FASB issued SFAS No. 119, "Disclosure about  Derivative
Financial  Instruments and Fair Value  of Financial Instruments." This Statement
addresses additional disclosure requirements  for derivatives and other  complex
financial  instruments. The Company  adopted SFAS No. 119  on December 31, 1994.
The Company did  not enter into  any derivative transactions  during 1995  which
would require disclosure under the provisions of SFAS No. 119.

    In  October 1995, the FASB issued  SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation." The disclosure requirements of  this Statement are effective  for
transactions entered into in fiscal


years  that begin  after December 15,  1995. SFAS No.  123 establishes financial
accounting and reporting standards for stock-based compensation plans, including
employee stock purchase plans, stock options and restricted stock. SFAS No.  123
encourages  all  entities  to  adopt  a  fair  value  method  of  accounting for
stock-based compensation plans,  whereby compensation  cost is  measured at  the
grant  date based on the fair  value of the award and  is realized as an expense
over the service or vesting period. However, SFAS No. 123 also allows an  entity
to  continue to  measure compensation cost  for these plans  using the intrinsic
value method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25, "Accounting  for  Stock Issued  to  Employees." Under  the  intrinsic  value
method,  compensation cost is the excess, if  any, of the quoted market price of
the stock at grant date or other measurement date over the amount which must  be
paid to acquire the stock.

    The  Company adopted SFAS No. 123, effective January 1, 1996. Based upon the
information available as  of December 31,  1995, the effect  of adoption on  the
consolidated  financial position and results of operations of the Company is not
expected to be material.

OTHER RISK FACTORS

    A number  of  risk factors  which  could potentially  impact  the  Company's
consolidated  financial position, earnings and growth have been addressed in the
preceding sections within Item 1. These risk factors include the following:

        Competition (see Item 1. "Competition");

        Economic  conditions  (see  Item  1.  "Economic  Conditions,  Government
        Policies and Legislation");

        Government  policies, legislation and regulation  (see Item 1. "Economic
        Conditions, Government Policies  and Legislation"  and "Supervision  and
        Regulation");

        Interest  rate  risk  (see  Item  1.  "Economic  Conditions,  Government
    Policies and Legislation");

        Regulatory  enforcement   actions   (see  Item   1.   "Supervision   and
    Regulation");

        Regulatory change (see Item 1. "Supervision and Regulation"); and

        Capital requirements (see Item 1. "Supervision and Regulation").

    In  addition to  the risk  factors listed  above, Management  has identified
additional risk factors as outlined below.  This listing of risk factors is  not
intended to be an all inclusive list.

    CAPITAL MARKETS

    General  conditions in the  capital markets, in  particular those related to
public stock offerings, may have  an impact on the  Bank. One consequence of  an
active market for public stock offerings is the payoff or reduction of a portion
of  the  Bank's  loans  by  some of  its  clients  which  complete  public stock
offerings.  Such  a  reduction  in  outstanding  loans,  if  significant,  could
adversely affect the Company's consolidated earnings.

    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The  Bank and the Company are  periodically the subjects of certain lawsuits
and claims arising in the ordinary course  of business. In the event an  adverse
ruling  or series of such rulings were to occur, the Bank's and/or the Company's
liability relating to these  actions could potentially  have a material  adverse
effect on the Company's consolidated financial position, earnings and growth.

    CREDIT RISK

    Credit risk is defined as the possibility of sustaining a loss because other
parties to the financial instrument fail to perform in accordance with the terms
of  the  contract. While  the Bank  follows  underwriting and  credit monitoring
procedures which it believes  are appropriate in growing  and managing its  loan
portfolio,  in the  event of nonperformance  by these other  parties, the Bank's
potential exposure to  credit losses  could significantly  affect the  Company's
consolidated financial position, earnings and growth.


    LIQUIDITY RISK

    The  Bank  regularly  enters  into  commitments  to  extend  credit  to  its
customers. Management's determination of the actual liquidity needs of the  Bank
contemplates  that  a nominal  percentage  of the  total  balance of  unused and
available commitments  will  be  advanced  to  the  Bank's  customers  within  a
short-term time frame. Were a substantial portion of these available commitments
to  be  drawn  upon during  this  time frame,  the  Bank's ability  to  fund the
commitments, as  well  as maintain  continuing  operations, could  be  adversely
impaired.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    Early  in  1995,  the  Bank received  regulatory  approval  to  relocate its
corporate headquarters and main branch and entered into a 10 year lease on a two
story office building, consisting of approximately 100,000 square feet,  located
at  3003  Tasman Drive,  Santa  Clara, California.  This  move was  completed by
December 1995. Concurrent with this move, the Bank closed its existing  branches
and operational offices in San Jose and Santa Clara, California and consolidated
them  into the nearby  headquarters. Management believes  that the consolidation
and relocation of these banking offices in Northern California will not have  an
adverse impact on the business of the Bank, its clients or the Company.

    In  addition to the headquarters lease in  Santa Clara, the Bank has entered
into various other  leases for  properties that  serve as  branches and/or  loan
offices.  These properties  are located in  the following  locations: Palo Alto,
California; Menlo  Park,  California;  Newport  Beach,  California;  San  Diego,
California;   Rockville,  Maryland;  Wellesley,  Massachusetts;  and  Beaverton,
Oregon. All Bank properties  are occupied under leases  which expire at  various
dates  through June  2005, and  in most instances,  include options  to renew or
extend at market rates and terms.

    The Bank has received regulatory approval  during 1996 to open loan  offices
in Bellevue, Washington, St. Helena, California and Beverly Hills, California.

    The  Bank owns leasehold improvements  and furniture, fixtures and equipment
at its  offices, all  of which  are  used in  the banking  business.  Management
believes  that the Company's  and Bank's facilities are  well maintained and are
adequate to meet current and foreseeable future requirements.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    There were no legal proceedings  requiring disclosure pursuant to this  item
pending at December 31, 1995, or at the date of this report.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    No  matters were submitted  to a vote  by the shareholders  of the Company's
common stock during the fourth quarter of 1995.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
       STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

MARKET INFORMATION

    The Company's  common stock  is  traded over  the  counter on  the  National
Association  of Securities Dealers Automated  Quotation (NASDAQ) National Market
System under the symbol "SIVB."

    The following table presents the high and low sales prices for the Company's
common stock for each quarterly period during  the last two years, based on  the
daily closing price as reported by the NASDAQ National Market System:



SHAREHOLDERS

    The  number of shareholders of record of  the Company's common stock was 693
as of February 9, 1996.

DIVIDENDS

    The Company declared no  cash dividends in 1994  or 1995, and is  restricted
from  paying dividends without prior regulatory  approval. See "Item 1. Business
- -- Supervision and Regulation -- Formal Supervisory Actions and -- Dividends and
Other Transfers of Funds," and  "Item 8. Financial Statements and  Supplementary
Data -- Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements -- Regulatory Matters."


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the
Company's  financial statements and supplementary data as presented in Item 8 of
this report. Certain  reclassifications have  been made to  the Company's  prior
years  results to conform with 1995 presentations. Such reclassifications had no
effect on the results of operations or shareholders' equity.



- ------------------------
(1) Per share data has been restated for stock dividends and stock splits.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

    The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results  of
operations should be read in conjunction with the Company's financial statements
and  supplementary  data  as  presented  in  Item  8  of  this  report.  Certain
reclassifications have been made to the Company's prior years results to conform
with 1995 presentations. Such reclassifications had no effect on the results  of
operations or shareholders' equity.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    EARNINGS SUMMARY

    The  Company reported  net income  in 1995  of $18.2  million, or  $1.98 per
share, compared with net income for 1994 and 1993 of $9.1 million, or $1.06  per
share,  and $1.6  million, or $0.20  per share, respectively.  Return on average
equity in 1995 was 19.8%, compared with  12.3% in 1994 and 2.3% in 1993.  Return
on  average assets in  1995 improved to 1.6%,  up from 0.9% in  1994 and 0.2% in
1993.

    The increase  in net  income in  1995 as  compared with  1994 resulted  from
growth  in net  interest income and  noninterest income, offset  by increases in
both the provision for loan losses and noninterest expense. The increase in 1994
net income as compared with  1993 was due to growth  in net interest income  and
improved  credit  quality, which  resulted in  a  corresponding decrease  in the
provision for loan losses  and other credit-related  expenses from 1993  levels.
The  major  components  of  net  income  and  changes  in  these  components are
summarized in the following  table for the years  ended December 31, 1995,  1994
and 1993, and are discussed in more detail below.



    NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN

    Net  interest  income  represents the  difference  between  interest earned,
primarily on  loans  and investments,  and  interest paid  on  funding  sources,
primarily  deposits, and is the principal source of revenue for the Company. Net
interest margin  is the  amount of  net  interest income,  on a  fully  taxable-
equivalent  basis, expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning assets.
The  average  yield  earned  on   interest-earning  assets  is  the  amount   of
taxable-equivalent   interest  income  expressed  as  a  percentage  of  average
interest-earning assets.  The average  rate paid  on funding  sources  expresses
interest expense as a percentage of average interest-earning assets.


    The following table sets forth average assets, liabilities and shareholders'
equity,  interest income and interest expense, average yields and rates, and the
composition of the Company's  net interest margin for  the years ended  December
31, 1995, 1994 and 1993.


- ------------------------------
(1)  Includes average interest-bearing deposits  in other financial institutions
    of $378, $455, and $71 in 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.


(2)  Interest  income  on  non-taxable  investments  is  presented  on  a  fully
    taxable-equivalent  basis using the  federal statutory rate  of 35% in 1995,
    1994 and 1993.  These adjustments were  $245, $290, and  $317 for the  years
    ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.
(3)  Average loans  include average  nonaccrual loans  of $16,146,  $41,362, and
    $48,059 in 1995, 1994, 1993, respectively.
(4) Average loans  are net  of average unearned  income of  $3,352, $3,965,  and
    $3,982 in 1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.
(5)  Loan interest income  includes loan fees  of $7,970, $8,886,  and $7,814 in
    1995, 1994, and 1993, respectively.
(6) In  accordance with  Statement of  Financial Accounting  Standards No.  114,
    in-substance foreclosure loans have been reclassified from other real estate
    owned  (OREO) to real  estate construction and  term loans. The reclassified
    amounts are $6,767 and $22,434 in 1994 and 1993, respectively.

    Net interest  income  is  affected by  changes  in  the amount  and  mix  of
interest-earnings  assets  and  interest-bearing  liabilities,  referred  to  as
"volume change."  Net interest  income is  also affected  by changes  in  yields
earned   on  interest-earning   assets  and   rates  paid   on  interest-bearing
liabilities, referred  to  as "rate  change."  The following  table  sets  forth
changes  in  interest income  and interest  expense for  each major  category of
interest-earning  assets  and  interest-bearing  liabilities.  The  table   also
reflects  the amount of change  attributable to volume and  rate changes for the
years indicated. Changes  relating to  investments in  municipal securities  are
presented  on a fully taxable-equivalent basis  using the federal statutory rate
of 35% in 1995, 1994 and 1993.



    Net interest  income, on  a fully  taxable-equivalent basis,  totaled  $74.2
million  in 1995, an increase of $13.6 million, or 22.5%, from the $60.6 million
total in 1994. The  increase in net  interest income was the  result of a  $26.2
million,  or 34.7%, increase in  interest income, offset by  a $12.5 million, or
84.5%, increase in interest  expense over the comparable  prior year period.  In
1994,  net interest income, on a  fully taxable-equivalent basis, increased $9.8
million, or 19.4%, compared to the  $50.7 million earned in 1993. This  increase
was  primarily  attributable to  an $11.0  million  increase in  interest income
compared to 1993 due to growth in average loans and the effect of rising  market
interest rates throughout 1994.

    The $26.2 million increase in 1995 interest income, as compared to 1994, was
the  result of  a $17.5  million favorable  volume variance  and a  $8.7 million
favorable rate variance. The  favorable volume variance  resulted from a  $210.4
million,  or  25.2%,  increase  in  average  interest-earning  assets  over  the
comparable prior  year  period. This  increase  was comprised  of  loans,  which
increased  $88.5 million, and lower-yielding liquid investments in federal funds
sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell, which increased  $151.3
million, and was offset by a $29.4 million decrease in investment securities due
to  maturities and  paydowns. Though  average loans  in 1995  increased from the
prior


year due  to  commercial  loan  growth of  $82.1  million,  average  loans  were
negatively  impacted during 1995 by the initial public offering (IPO) market, as
the Company experienced an unusually large amount of loan payoffs in  connection
with  a number of its clients completing public stock offerings. The increase in
average federal funds sold  and securities purchased  under agreement to  resell
resulted  from significant  growth in  the Company's  deposits, and Management's
decision to invest  excess funds  in short-term  liquid investments  due to  the
relatively flat interest rate environment during much of 1995.

    The  increase in market interest rates throughout 1994 and the early part of
1995 also contributed to the growth of interest income in 1995. Interest  income
in  1995 increased $8.7 million,  as compared to 1994, due  to a 70 basis points
increase in the average yield on interest-earning assets. Of this increase, $7.1
million was attributable to  loans, as the average  yield on loans increased  to
11.7%  in 1995,  up from 10.5%  in 1994. This  increase in the  average yield on
loans during 1995 was related to the aforementioned increase in market  interest
rates, as a substantial portion of the Company's loans are prime-rate based.

    Interest  income increased  $11.0 million from  1993 to 1994.  The growth in
average interest-earning assets during 1994 resulted in a $6.2 million favorable
impact on interest income as  compared to 1993. Average interest-earning  assets
increased  $46.4 million, or 5.9%, to $835.9 million in 1994, compared to $789.5
million in 1993. During  1994, average loans increased  $18.4 million, or  3.2%,
from  1993  due  to  increased loan  demand  resulting  from  improving economic
conditions, increased marketing efforts by the Company, and a general slowing in
the marketplace  for  IPOs  compared  to  the  prior  year.  Average  investment
securities  increased and average federal funds  sold decreased in 1994 compared
to 1993 as a  result of Management's  decisions in late 1993  and early 1994  to
invest  excess funds in longer-term investment  securities as opposed to federal
funds sold. Rising market interest rates  throughout 1994 contributed to a  $4.8
million  increase  in  interest  income  over  1993,  as  the  average  yield on
interest-earning assets in 1994 increased 80 basis points over the 1993  average
yield.

    Total  interest expense  in 1995 increased  $12.5 million from  the total in
1994 due to increases in both the  volume of and rates paid on  interest-bearing
liabilities.  The $147.3 million, or 26.9%, increase in average interest-bearing
liabilities during 1995 was concentrated  in higher-rate money market  deposits,
and  resulted in  a $5.8 million  increase in  the cost of  funding during 1995.
Changes  in  the  rates  paid  on  interest-bearing  liabilities  also  had   an
unfavorable  impact on 1995 interest expense as  compared to the prior year. The
rising interest  rate environment  during 1994  and  early 1995  led to  a  $6.7
million   increase  in   interest  expense,   as  the   average  rate   paid  on
interest-bearing liabilities  increased  120 basis  points  from 1994  to  1995.
Average  interest-bearing  liabilities  in  1994  were  flat  compared  to 1993,
resulting in little change in interest expense for 1994 as compared to 1993.

    PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES

    The provision for  loan losses is  based on Management's  evaluation of  the
adequacy  of the existing allowance for loan  losses in relation to total loans,
and on Management's continuous  assessment of the  inherent and identified  risk
dynamics  of the  loan portfolio resulting  from reviews  of selected individual
loans and loan commitments.

    The provision for  loan losses was  $8.7 million in  1995, compared to  $3.1
million  and $9.7 million in  1994 and 1993, respectively.  The $5.6 million, or
183.0%, increase in  1995 as  compared to  1994 was  related to  an increase  in
nonperforming  loans during  1995. The $6.6  million, or 68.2%,  decrease in the
provision for loan losses from 1993  to 1994 reflected Management's election  to
charge-off $5.5 million in nonperforming loans at year-end 1994.

    For  a more detailed discussion of credit quality and the allowance for loan
losses, see the Item 7 section  entitled "Financial Condition -- Credit  Quality
and the Allowance for Loan Losses."


    NONINTEREST INCOME

    The  following table summarizes the components of noninterest income for the
past three years:



    Noninterest income increased $7.6 million, or 155.3%, in 1995 as compared to
1994. This  growth was  primarily attributable  to a  $5.4 million  increase  in
income  from  the  disposition  of client  warrants,  as  the  Company exercised
warrants held in some of its clients which completed public stock offerings, and
a $1.7  million decrease  in losses  incurred through  the sales  of  investment
securities.  Noninterest income  decreased $4.4  million, or  47.2%, in  1994 as
compared to  1993. The  decrease in  noninterest income  from 1993  to 1994  was
primarily due to a $2.9 million decline in income from the disposition of client
warrants,  as well  as a  $2.5 million increase  in losses  incurred through the
sales of investment securities.

    The Company has historically obtained rights  to acquire stock (in the  form
of  warrants)  in  certain  nonpublic  clients  as  part  of  negotiated  credit
facilities. The receipt of warrants does not change the loan covenants or  other
collateral  control techniques employed by the Company to mitigate the risk of a
loan  becoming  nonperforming.   Interest  rates,  loan   fees  and   collateral
requirements  on loans with  warrants are similar  to lending arrangements where
warrants are not obtained. The timing and amount of income from the  disposition
of  client warrants  typically depends  upon factors  beyond the  control of the
Company, including the general condition  of the capital markets, and  therefore
cannot be predicted with any degree of accuracy and is likely to vary materially
from period to period.

    Letter  of credit fees, foreign exchange fees and other trade finance income
totaled $3.0 million in 1995,  an increase of $0.6  million, or 25.1%, from  the
$2.4  million earned in 1994,  and an increase of  $1.6 million, or 108.7%, from
the total in 1993. The growth in this category of noninterest income reflects  a
concerted   effort   by  Management   to   expand  the   penetration   of  trade
finance-related services among the Company's client base.

    Deposit service charges were $1.4 million, $1.5 million and $1.7 million  in
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. These service charges decreased $0.1 million,
or  8.6%, from  1994 to  1995, and $0.2  million, or  10.5%, from  1993 to 1994.
Clients compensate the Company for  depository services either through  earnings
credits  computed on  their demand  deposit balances,  or via  explicit payments
recognized as deposit service  charges. As interest rates  rose during 1994  and
early  1995,  the earnings  credits  were higher,  thus  lowering the  amount of
explicit deposit service charges.

    The Company  incurred $0.8  million in  losses through  sales of  investment
securities  during 1995, a $1.7 million, or 68.3%, decrease from the prior year.
The securities sold during 1995  were primarily mortgage-backed securities.  The
$2.4 million in securities losses realized during 1994 resulted from the sale of
$129.5  million  of the  Company's  available-for-sale investment  portfolio and
included mortgage-backed securities, as well as U.S. Treasury and U.S.  agencies
securities.  All  sales  of investment  securities  were conducted  as  a normal
component  of  the  Company's  interest  rate  risk  and  liquidity   management
activities.


    NONINTEREST EXPENSE

    Noninterest  expense in 1995 totaled $47.9 million, a $2.3 million, or 5.1%,
increase from  1994. Noninterest  expense  was $45.6  million  in 1994,  a  $1.8
million,  or 3.7%, decrease from 1993.  Management closely monitors the level of
noninterest  expense  using  a  variety  of  financial  ratios,  including   the
efficiency  ratio. The efficiency ratio is  calculated by dividing the amount of
noninterest expense, excluding costs associated with other real estate owned, by
adjusted revenues, defined as the total  of net interest income and  noninterest
income,  excluding income from  the disposition of client  warrants and gains or
losses incurred through sales of investment securities. This ratio reflects  the
level  of operating  expense required to  generate $1 of  operating revenue. The
Company's efficiency ratio improved  to 60.6% in 1995,  down from 68.3% in  1994
and  68.9%  in 1993.  The  following table  presents  the detail  of noninterest
expense and the  incremental contribution  of each  line item  to the  Company's
efficiency ratio:



    Compensation  and  benefits  expenses were  $27.2  million in  1995,  a $3.9
million, or  16.8%,  increase  over  the 1994  total  of  $23.2  million.  Total
compensation  and benefits  expenses were $18.6  million in 1993.  The number of
average full-time equivalent (FTE) staff employed by the Company during 1995 was
336 compared with 299 and  261 in 1994 and  1993, respectively. The increase  in
FTE  from 1993 through 1995 was primarily  due to the expansion of the Company's
lending staff in response to the growth in the client base, as well as an effort
to develop new lending markets.

    Professional services expenses were $4.6 million in 1995, a $0.1 million, or
2.6%, decrease  from  the $4.7  million  incurred in  1994.  Total  professional
services  expenses  in 1994  were $0.4  million,  or 7.5%,  lower than  the $5.1
million incurred in 1993. The  level of these expenses  during each of the  past
three  years reflects the  extensive efforts undertaken by  the Company to build
its infrastructure.

    Occupancy and equipment expenses totaled  $6.9 million in 1995, an  increase
of  $2.5 million, or  57.5%, compared to  the prior year  total of $4.4 million.
Total occupancy and equipment expenses in 1994 increased $1.5 million, or 50.3%,
from the $2.9 million  incurred in 1993. The  most significant component of  the
increase  from 1994 to 1995 was  related to certain non-recurring costs incurred
in connection with the  Company's move into a  new headquarters facility.  These
non-recurring  costs included  both the  disposal and  purchase of  premises and
equipment. The move into the new facility was completed in the fourth quarter of
1995. The increases in  occupancy and equipment expenses  from 1993 to 1994  and
1994 to 1995 are also related to investments in office space, computer equipment
and  other costs associated with the  Company's growth in personnel during those
periods.


    FDIC deposit insurance expense was $1.4 million in 1995, a $1.0 million,  or
42.4%,  decrease from the total in 1994,  and a $1.1 million, or 43.5%, decrease
from the total in  1993. This decrease  in 1995 from the  expense levels of  the
past  two years resulted from  a reduction in the  Bank's assessment rate in the
third quarter of  1995 due  to completion of  the recapitalization  of the  Bank
Insurance Fund. The Bank's assessment rate beginning January 1, 1996 was further
reduced  from the rate  in effect for the  fourth quarter of  1995. See "Item 1.
Business -- Supervision and Regulation -- Premiums for Deposit Insurance."

    Data processing services expenses were $0.8  million in 1995, a decrease  of
$0.5  million, or 37.5%, from 1994. These expenses totaled $1.3 million and $1.0
million in 1994 and 1993, respectively. The increase in data processing services
expenses in 1994 as compared to the total  incurred in 1993 and 1995 was due  to
$0.4 million of non-recurring data processing conversion costs.

    Corporate legal and litigation expenses in 1995 totaled $0.6 million, a $2.0
million,  or 76.8%, decrease from the $2.6  million incurred in 1994, and a $1.5
million, or 72.2%, decrease from the $2.1 million incurred in 1993. The 1994 and
1993  legal  and  litigation  expenses  incurred  by  the  Company  included   a
significant  amount of expenditures associated with the defense of a shareholder
class action lawsuit filed  against the Company in  June 1993. This lawsuit  was
settled in the third quarter of 1994.

    Client  services expenses include courier expenses and related costs of loan
and deposit operations. These expenses have declined from the 1993 total of $1.5
million, to $1.1 million in 1994 and $0.4 million in 1995, due to an increase in
reimbursements from clients  and a  decline in  client deposits  related to  the
title and escrow industry, for which client services were provided.

    Other expenses in 1995 totaled $6.1 million, a significant increase from the
$4.6  million and $3.5 million incurred in 1994 and 1993, respectively. The 1995
increase compared to  the prior two  years was related  to increased travel  and
other  miscellaneous expenses resulting  from the Company's  growth in staff and
increased business development efforts.

    The net costs associated with other real estate owned (OREO) were minimal in
1995, as gains from the sales of OREO properties slightly exceeded the costs  of
maintaining  all  of  the  Company's  OREO properties.  The  net  costs  of OREO
decreased $1.4  million, or  100.9%, from  1994 to  1995, and  $8.9 million,  or
86.5%,  from 1993 to 1994, as the Company's credit quality improved and a number
of OREO properties were  liquidated. The improvement in  credit quality and  the
sales  of OREO properties reduced the  Company's average OREO balance from $13.4
million in 1993, to  $9.7 million in  1994 and $5.8 million  in 1995. The  costs
associated  with OREO  include: maintenance expenses;  property taxes; marketing
costs;  net  operating  expense  or  income  associated  with   income-producing
properties;  property  write-downs; and  gains or  losses on  the sales  of such
properties.

    INCOME TAXES

    The Company's effective  tax rate was  39.2% in 1995,  compared to 45.0%  in
1994  and 40.0% in 1993. The reduction in the Company's 1995 effective tax rate,
as compared to 1994, was attributable  to adjustments in the Company's  estimate
of its tax liabilities. The increase in the effective rate for 1994, as compared
to  1993, primarily relates  to a decline  in the level  of interest income from
non-taxable investments relative to total taxable income.


FINANCIAL CONDITION

    The Company's  total assets  were  $1.4 billion  at  December 31,  1995,  an
increase  of $246.0 million, or 21.2%, compared  to $1.2 billion at December 31,
1994.

    FEDERAL FUNDS SOLD AND SECURITIES PURCHASED UNDER AGREEMENT TO RESELL

    Federal funds  sold  and  securities purchased  under  agreement  to  resell
totaled  $257.1 million at December 31, 1995,  an increase of $107.1 million, or
71.4%, compared to the  $150.1 million outstanding at  the prior year-end.  This
increase   resulted  from  significant  growth   in  the  Bank's  deposits,  and
Management's decision to invest  excess funds in  short-term investments due  to
the relatively flat interest rate environment at the end of 1995.

    INVESTMENT SECURITIES

    The  following table details the composition  of investments at December 31,
1995, 1994 and 1993:



    Investment securities totaled  $321.3 million  at December  31, 1995,  which
represented  a $164.8  million, or 105.3%,  increase over the  December 31, 1994
balance of $156.5 million. The increase in investment securities was related  to
the Company's liquidity management activities, as a portion of the growth in the
Bank's  deposits during 1995  was invested in  notes issued by  U.S. agencies as
well as  commercial paper,  rather than  in federal  funds sold  and  securities
purchased under agreement to resell.

    The  Company  sold collateralized  mortgage obligations  and mortgage-backed
securities with an amortized  cost of $26.8 million  in 1995, and U.S.  Treasury
and  agencies securities as well as mortgage-backed securities with an amortized
cost of $129.5 million in 1994. All investment securities sold in 1995 and  1994
were  classified as available-for-sale, and all sales were conducted as a normal
component  of  the  Company's  interest  rate  risk  and  liquidity   management
activities.

    Investment  securities held  by the Company  at December 31,  1995 that were
issued by a  single party,  excluding the  U.S. Government  and U.S.  Government
agencies  and corporations,  and exceeded  10.0% of  the Company's shareholders'
equity at year-end, consisted solely of $14.8 million in commercial paper issued
by U.S. Lease Capital Corporation.


    The  following table provides the remaining contractual principal maturities
and fully  taxable-equivalent  yields  on investment  securities.  The  weighted
average  yield  is  computed  using  the  amortized  cost  of available-for-sale
securities, which are reported at  fair value. Expected remaining maturities  of
collateralized  mortgage  obligations  will differ  from  contractual maturities
because borrowers  may have  the right  to prepay  obligations with  or  without
penalties.  Other equity securities were included in the table below as maturing
after ten years.


    Collateralized mortgage obligations  (CMOs) pose risks  not associated  with
fixed  maturity bonds, primarily related to the ability of the mortgage borrower
to prepay the  loan without penalty.  This risk, known  as prepayment risk,  may
cause  the CMO to  remain outstanding for  a period of  time different than that
assumed at  the time  of  purchase. When  rates decline,  prepayments  generally
increase causing the average expected remaining maturity of the CMO to decrease.
Conversely,  if interest rates  rise, prepayments tend  to decrease, lengthening
the CMO's average expected remaining maturity.

    LOANS

    The composition of  the loan portfolio  as of December  31, net of  unearned
income, for each of the past five years is as follows:



    Total  loans at December 31,  1995 were $738.4 million,  a $34.6 million, or
4.9%, increase compared to the $703.8 million outstanding at December 31,  1994.
Though  total loans at December 31, 1995 were higher than at the prior year-end,
loan balances throughout 1995 were negatively impacted by the IPO market, as the
Company experienced an unusually large amount of loan payoffs in connection with
a number of  its clients  having completed  public stock  offerings. These  loan
payoffs primarily


affected  the Company's commercial  loan portfolio. Consumer  and other loans at
year-end 1995  were significantly  higher than  at the  prior year-end,  as  the
Company  began offering personal lines of credit to executives of its clients in
late 1994.

    The following tables set  forth the maturity  distribution of the  Company's
loans  (reported on a gross basis) at  December 31, 1995, for fixed and variable
rate commercial and real estate construction loans:



    Upon maturity, loans satisfying the  Company's credit quality standards  may
be  eligible for renewal.  Such renewals are subject  to the normal underwriting
and credit administration practices associated with new loans. The Company  does
not grant loans with unconditional extension terms.

    Commercial  loans to clients served by  the Company's Technology and Special
Industries Groups are generally secured by business and personal assets.  Client
credit  needs are typically  in the range  of $1.0 million  to $7.0 million, and
advance rates do not typically exceed 80.0% of estimated collateral values.  The
Company's  Technology Group focuses on commercial  lending to companies within a
variety of  technology and  life sciences  industries, such  as  semiconductors,
electronics,    software,   communications,    peripherals,   medical   devices,
biotechnology and others. The Company's  Technology Group serves clients  across
the nation. These clients are generally not affected by local economic cycles as
much as they are influenced by the global market conditions for their industry's
products or services.

    Lenders  in the Company's Special Industries  Group (SIG) serve clients in a
variety  of  middle-market   commercial  enterprises,   primarily  in   Northern
California.  The Company's strategy  is to identify  under-served niches where a
strong opportunity exists to serve targeted clients, generally those with credit
needs under $10.0 million, by developing a high level of knowledge of the target
market and  its  business  cycles and  risks.  In  1994 and  1995,  the  Company
identified  the wine industry and religious  institutions as two new niches, and
in 1996 has identified  a niche within the  entertainment industry. The  Company
has commenced lending operations related to all three of these new niches.

    Within  SIG, the Company's  Real Estate Division  is selectively involved in
lending operations  related  to  real estate  construction  projects,  including
"owner-build-to-suit"  residences  and  "pre-leased"  commercial  buildings.  In
addition, the Real Estate Division supports  other Bank lending groups with  its
expertise  in real estate  lending. Real estate  term loans are  usually made to
clients of the  Technology or  Special Industries Groups  to finance  commercial
real  estate to be operated  by the client. Loan-to-value  ratios of real estate
loans generally do  not exceed 80.0%  of the estimated  value of the  underlying
real estate.


    While  a substantial percentage of  the Company's commercial loans originate
within the Technology  Group, such loans  are made to  both emerging growth  and
middle-market  companies  in a  variety of  industries, as  well as  to industry
executives, and  no  particular  industry  sector  (as  identified  by  Standard
Industrial  Codes)  represents  a  significant  concentration  within  the  loan
portfolio.

    LOAN ADMINISTRATION

    Responsibility for the  Company's loan policies  resides with the  Company's
Board  of Directors.  This responsibility  is managed  through the  approval and
periodic review of the Company's loan policies. The Board of Directors delegates
authority to the Directors' Loan  Committee to supervise the loan  underwriting,
approval and monitoring activities of the Company. The Directors' Loan Committee
consists of outside Board of Directors members and the Company's Chief Executive
Officer.

    Under  the oversight of the Directors'  Loan Committee, lending authority is
delegated to the Chief Credit Officer and the Company's Internal Loan  Committee
consisting  of the  Chief Credit  Officer, lending  division managers,  and loan
administrators. Requests for new  and existing credits  which meet certain  size
and underwriting criteria may be approved outside of the Company's Internal Loan
Committee  by designated division  managers or team leaders  jointly with a loan
administrator. Credits exceeding $3.0 million must be approved by the Directors'
Loan Committee, as stipulated in  the Federal Reserve Bank's regulatory  consent
order.

    The  loan approval  and committee  system is  administered by  the Company's
Credit Administration  Group.  Loan  administrators  assigned  to  each  lending
division  report to  the Chief  Credit Officer,  who also  acts as  chair of the
Internal  Loan  Committee.   In  response   to  the   significant  increase   in
nonperforming  assets  and loan  charge-offs  during 1992,  Management  began an
extensive review  of  the  Company's loan  policies  and  procedures,  portfolio
management  practices, and  credit review process  during the  fourth quarter of
that year.  The Company  also  hired experienced  loan administrators  and  loan
review  officers in  an effort  to restore  and maintain  a high  level of asset
quality in its loan portfolio.

    CREDIT QUALITY AND THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

    Lending  money  involves  an  inherent  risk  of  nonpayment.  Through   the
administration  of  loan policies  and monitoring  of the  portfolio, Management
seeks to reduce  such risks. The  allowance for  loan losses is  an estimate  to
provide  a financial buffer for losses, both identified and unidentified, in the
loan portfolio.

    Management regularly reviews  and monitors the  loan portfolio to  determine
the  risk profile of  each credit, and  to identify credits  whose risk profiles
have changed.  This review  includes, but  is not  limited to,  such factors  as
payment  status, the  financial condition  of the  borrower, borrower compliance
with   loan   covenants,   underlying   collateral   values,   potential    loan
concentrations,  and general economic conditions.  Potential problem credits are
identified and, based upon known information, action plans are developed.

    Management has established an evaluation  process designed to determine  the
adequacy  of the allowance for loan losses.  This process attempts to assess the
risk of losses inherent in the  portfolio by segregating the allowance for  loan
losses  into three components: "specific;"  "loss migration;" and "general." The
"specific" component is established by allocating a portion of the allowance  to
individual  classified  credits  on  the  basis  of  specific  circumstances and
assessments. The "loss migration" component is  calculated as a function of  the
historical  loss migration  experience of the  internal loan  credit risk rating
categories. The "general" component is  an unallocated portion that  supplements
the  first two components  and includes: Management's judgment  of the effect of
current and forecasted economic conditions on the Company's borrowers' abilities
to repay; an evaluation of the allowance for loan losses in relation to the size
of the overall loan portfolio; an  evaluation of the composition of, and  growth
trends  within, the  loan portfolio;  consideration of  the relationship  of the
allowance for loan  losses to  nonperforming loans; net  charge-off trends;  and
other factors. While this evaluation


process  utilizes historical and other objective information, the classification
of loans and the establishment  of the allowance for  loan losses, relies, to  a
great extent, on the judgment and experience of Management.

    An  analysis of the allowance for loan losses  for the past five years is as
follows:



    The following table displays the allocation of the allowance for loan losses
among specific classes of loans as of December 31, 1995, 1994, 1993 and 1992:



    The Company did not  allocate the allowance for  loan losses among  specific
classes of loans prior to 1992.

    The  allowance for loan  losses was $29.7  million at December  31, 1995, an
increase of $9.7  million, or 48.5%,  compared to the  $20.0 million balance  at
December  31,  1994. This  increase  was due  to  the Company  contributing $8.7
million in additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses in response to
an increase in nonperforming loans during the year, and to the Company realizing
net loan


recoveries of $1.0 million in 1995 compared with $8.1 million in net charge-offs
during 1994. Loan recoveries  in 1995 included $2.7  million from a real  estate
client relationship that had been charged off in 1992.

    Net loan charge-offs in 1994 included the partial charge-off of loans to two
commercial  borrowers totaling  $5.5 million. Net  loan charge-offs  in 1993 and
1992 and the $35.4 million provision  for loan losses during 1992 were  directly
influenced  by certain events in the third  and fourth quarter of 1992. The Real
Estate Division incurred  several large  charge-offs stemming  from declines  in
appraised values of real estate collateral. Construction time and delays imposed
by  bankruptcy and foreclosure proceedings hampered  efforts to gain control and
effectively dispose of collateral in  a timely manner. These delays  contributed
to  a reduction in market values as the deteriorating condition of San Francisco
Bay Area real estate markets caused sales prices to decline rapidly during 1992.
In addition,  several  Special Industries  Group  commercial clients  filed  for
protection under bankruptcy laws, contributing to an impairment of the Company's
collateral and resulting in loan charge-offs.

    In  general,  Management  believes that  the  allowance for  loan  losses is
adequate as  of December  31, 1995.  However, future  changes in  circumstances,
economic  conditions  or other  factors could  cause  Management to  increase or
decrease the allowance for loan losses as deemed necessary.

    Nonperforming assets consist of loans that are past due 90 days or more  but
still  accruing interest, loans on nonaccrual  status, and OREO. The table below
sets forth  certain  relationships between  nonperforming  loans,  nonperforming
assets and the allowance for loan losses:



- ------------------------
(1) In  accordance  with Statement  of Financial  Accounting Standards  No. 114,
    in-substance  foreclosure  loans  have   been  reclassified  from  OREO   to
    nonaccrual  loans. The reclassified amounts  are $1,377, $13,824 and $27,339
    at December  31,  1994, 1993  and  1992,  respectively. There  were  no  in-
    substance foreclosure loans at December 31, 1991.

    Nonperforming  loans totaled $28.8 million at December 31, 1995, an increase
of $17.1 million,  or 145.7%,  from the $11.7  million balance  at December  31,
1994.  This increase was  concentrated in two commercial  credits, each of which
Management believes, based on currently known information, is adequately secured
with collateral  and specific  reserves and  one of  which continues  to  remain
current  in  its payments.  The significant  improvement in  nonperforming loans
during 1994 and 1993,  compared to the  level at the end  of 1992, reflects  the
concerted  efforts of Management to improve  the Company's credit discipline and
processes and to strengthen its Credit Administration Group staffing.


    In addition to the loans disclosed in the foregoing analysis, Management has
identified three  loans with  principal amounts  aggregating approximately  $1.6
million,  that, on the basis  of information known by  Management as of December
31,  1995,  were  judged  to  have  a  higher  than  normal  risk  of   becoming
nonperforming.  The Company is not aware of any other loans at December 31, 1995
where known information about  possible problems of  the borrower casts  serious
doubts  about the  ability of  the borrower  to comply  with the  loan repayment
terms.

    OREO totaled $5.0 million at December 31, 1995, a decrease of $2.1  million,
or  30.1%, from  the $7.1  million balance at  December 31,  1994. This decrease
resulted from 1995 sales  and paydowns related to  OREO properties. The  Company
transfered two loans with a reported value of $0.4 million to OREO in 1995.

    DEPOSITS

    The  Company's  deposits are  primarily  obtained from  emerging  growth and
middle-market businesses,  including both  venture capital-backed  and  publicly
financed companies, professional service firms, and business executives, located
in  the market areas served by the Company. The Company does not obtain deposits
from conventional retail sources. The  following table presents the  composition
of the Company's deposits for the last five years:



    Total  deposits were $1,290.1  million at December 31,  1995, an increase of
$214.7 million, or 20.0%, from the prior year-end amount of $1,075.4 million.  A
significant  portion of the increase in deposits during 1995 was concentrated in
higher-rate money market  products, which  increased $188.8  million, or  32.9%,
from  December 31, 1994. The growth in  deposits during 1995 was attributable to
the successful marketing efforts of the Company.

    Time certificates of deposit  in amounts of $100,000  or more totaled  $57.3
million  at December 31,  1995. As previously noted,  the Company seeks deposits
from client businesses within  its target markets and  does not accept  brokered
deposits. No material portion of the Company's deposits has been obtained from a
single  depositor and the loss of any  one depositor would not materially affect
the business of the Company.

    INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY MANAGEMENT

    Interest rate sensitivity  is a  measure of  the exposure  of the  Company's
future  earnings due to changes in interest  rates. If assets and liabilities do
not reprice simultaneously and in equal volumes, the potential for such exposure
exists. It  is  Management's objective  to  achieve a  modestly  asset-sensitive
position,  such that the net interest margin  of the Company increases as market
interest rates rise and decreases when rates decline.

    One quantitative  measure  of the  "mismatch"  between asset  and  liability
repricing  is the interest rate sensitivity "gap" analysis. All interest-earning
assets and funding  sources are  classified as  to their  expected repricing  or
maturity  date, whichever  is sooner.  Within each  time period,  the difference
between  asset  and  liability  balances,  or  "gap,"  is  calculated.  Positive
cumulative  gaps in  early time periods  suggest that earnings  will increase if
interest rates  rise. Negative  gaps  suggest that  earnings will  decline  when
interest  rates rise.  The following  tables presents  the gap  analyses for the
Company at December 31, 1995 and 1994:


           INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1995


- ------------------------------

(1) Includes interest-bearing deposits in  other financial institutions of  $138
    as of December 31, 1995.

(2) All securities are reported at market value.

(3)  Principal  cash  flows are  based  on  estimated principal  payments  as of
    December 31, 1995.

(4) Not stated column  consists of other equity  securities and Federal  Reserve
    Bank stock.

(5)  Not  stated column  consists of  nonperforming loans  of $28.8  million and
    overdrafts of $3.2 million,  offset by unearned income  of $3.8 million,  at
    December 31, 1995.


           INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1994


- ------------------------------

(1) Includes interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions of $57 as
    of December 31, 1994.

(2)  All  securities are  reported at  market value,  except for  obligations of
    states and political subdivisions which  are reported at amortized cost,  at
    December 31, 1994.

(3)  Principal  cash  flows are  based  on  estimated principal  payments  as of
    December 31, 1994.

(4) Not stated column  consists of other equity  securities and Federal  Reserve
    Bank stock.

(5)  Not stated column consists of nonaccrual  loans of $11.3 million, offset by
    unearned income of $3.7 million, at December 31, 1994.


    Management has historically maintained  a positive cumulative gap  position.
This  results  from a  significant portion  of the  Company's loans  being prime
rate-based, while a significant percentage  of funding sources are derived  from
noninterest-bearing   demand   deposits.  Another   contributor  to   the  asset
sensitivity of  the Company,  in a  rising interest  rate environment,  is  that
changes  in the Company's money market deposit  rates tend to lag changes in the
prime rate.

    By year-end 1995, the Company was somewhat more asset sensitive than at  the
end of 1994, as evidenced by larger cumulative gaps in all time periods from one
day  to one year. Should interest rates  stabilize or decline in future periods,
it is reasonable to assume  that the Company's net  interest margin, as well  as
net interest income, may decline correspondingly.

LIQUIDITY

    Management regularly reviews general economic and financial conditions, both
external  and internal, and determines whether  the positions taken with respect
to liquidity and interest  rate sensitivity are  appropriate. The objectives  of
liquidity  management are to provide funds, at  an acceptable cost, to meet loan
demand and depositors' needs, and to service other liabilities as they come due.

    The Company assesses  the likelihood  of projected  funding requirements  by
reviewing   historical  funding   patterns,  current   and  forecasted  economic
conditions and individual client funding  needs. One measure Management uses  to
assess  the Company's liquidity is the level  of liquid assets relative to total
deposits. Liquid assets  include cash and  due from banks,  federal funds  sold,
securities  purchased  under  agreement  to  resell,  and  investment securities
maturing within one year. At December 31, 1995, the Company's liquid assets as a
percentage of deposits were  41.0% compared to 30.1%  at December 31, 1994.  The
1995 year-end percentage was greater than the prior year-end percentage due to a
$205.8  million  increase  in  liquid assets.  This  increase  in  liquid assets
resulted from  significant  growth  during  1995 in  the  Bank's  deposits,  and
Management's  decision to invest  excess funds in  short-term investments due to
the relatively flat interest rate environment at the end of 1995.

    As an additional source of funds,  the Company has negotiated federal  funds
borrowing  lines with correspondent banks, and maintains borrowing capacity with
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. These arrangements, coupled with  the
ability to pledge qualifying investment securities and borrow against their fair
value,  provide the  Company with  the temporary  liquidity to  address clients'
funding  requirements  in  the  unlikely  event  of  substantially  higher  than
projected  fundings. At December 31, 1995, the Company's percentage of available
liquid assets, defined as liquid assets  plus federal funds borrowing lines  and
the  borrowing capacity at the  Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco, to total
deposits plus a portion of available  unused commitments and letters of  credit,
was  43.7% compared to 31.5% at the prior year-end. The increase in the year-end
1995 percentage was  due to  the aforementioned  increase in  liquid assets  and
additional federal funds borrowing lines obtained by the Company during 1995.

CAPITAL RESOURCES

    Management  seeks to maintain adequate  capital to support anticipated asset
growth and credit  risks, and to  ensure that the  Company and the  Bank are  in
compliance  with all  regulatory capital guidelines.  The primary  source of new
capital for the Company has been  the retention of earnings. Aside from  current
earnings,  an additional source of new capital for the Company has been proceeds
from the issuance of  common stock under the  Company's employee benefit  plans,
including  the Company's  1983 and 1989  stock option plans,  the employee stock
ownership plan, and the employee stock purchase plan.

    Shareholders' equity was $105.0 million at December 31, 1995, an increase of
$27.7 million, or 35.9%,  from the $77.3 million  balance at December 31,  1994.
This increase was due to 1995 earnings of $18.2 million, $5.6 million in capital
generated  through employee benefit plans during 1995, and a decrease in the net
after-tax unrealized loss on available-for-sale investments of $3.9 million from
the prior  year-end. The  Company does  not have  any material  commitments  for
capital expenditures as of December 31, 1995.


    The  Company paid nominal  cash dividends on  its common stock  from 1989 to
1992 in  order  to  qualify the  common  stock  as an  eligible  investment  for
institutional  investors requiring a  cash yield. The Board  of Directors of the
Company indefinitely suspended plans to pay further cash dividends in the  third
quarter of 1992 in response to the net loss and level of nonperforming assets in
the  third quarter of 1992. The Company  is currently precluded from paying cash
dividends without prior regulatory approval.

    The following table presents the relationship between significant  financial
ratios:



    The  Company and the Bank are  subject to capital adequacy guidelines issued
by the  Federal  Reserve  Board.  Under  these  guidelines,  the  minimum  total
risk-based  capital  requirement is  10.0% of  risk-weighted assets  and certain
off-balance sheet  items for  a "well  capitalized" depository  institution.  At
least  6.0% of the 10.0%  total risk-based capital ratio  must consist of Tier 1
capital, defined as  tangible common equity,  and the remainder  may consist  of
subordinated  debt,  cumulative preferred  stock, and  a  limited amount  of the
allowance for loan losses.

    The Federal Reserve  Board has  established minimum  capital leverage  ratio
guidelines  for state member banks. The ratio is determined using Tier 1 capital
divided by quarterly average total assets.  The guidelines require a minimum  of
5.0% for a "well capitalized" depository institution.

    In  addition to the  foregoing requirements, the  Bank is also  subject to a
capital requirement  established by  the  California State  Banking  Department.
Under the regulatory consent order with the California State Banking Department,
the  Bank must maintain  a minimum tangible equity-to-assets  ratio of 6.5%. The
Bank's tangible equity-to-assets ratios were 7.1% and 6.5% at December 31,  1995
and 1994, respectively.

    The  Company's  risk-based  capital  ratios  were  in  excess  of regulatory
guidelines for a  "well-capitalized" depository institution  as of December  31,
1995, 1994 and 1993. Capital ratios for the Company are set forth below:



    The  improvement in the Company's total and Tier 1 risk-based capital ratios
from December 31,  1994 to  December 31, 1995  is attributable  to asset  growth
during  1995  primarily  occuring in  lower  risk-weighted assets,  and  also an
increase in Tier 1  capital. The increase  in Tier 1  capital resulted from  the
aforementioned  1995  net income  and  capital generated  through  the Company's
employee benefit  plans.  The  decrease  in  the  Company's  total  and  Tier  1
risk-based  capital ratios from December 31, 1993 to December 31, 1994 primarily
resulted from  the  growth  in  loans  outstanding and  in  the  level  of  loan
commitments.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Silicon Valley Bancshares:

    We  have  audited the  accompanying consolidated  balance sheets  of Silicon
Valley Bancshares and  subsidiaries (the Company)  as of December  31, 1995  and
1994,   and  the   related  consolidated   statements  of   income,  changes  in
shareholders' equity, and cash  flows the years  then ended. These  consolidated
financial  statements are  the responsibility  of the  Company's management. Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements  based  on our  audits. The  accompanying consolidated  statements of
income, changes in shareholders' equity, and  cash flows of the Company for  the
year  ended  December 31,  1993,  were audited  by  other auditors  whose report
thereon dated  January  26, 1994,  expressed  an unqualified  opinion  on  those
statements.

    We  conducted  our audits  in  accordance with  generally  accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles  used  and significant  estimates  made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the 1995 and 1994 consolidated financial statements referred
to  above present  fairly, in all  material respects, the  financial position of
Silicon Valley Bancshares and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

    As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
adopted the provisions of Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No.  115,
ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN INVESTMENTS IN DEBT AND EQUITY SECURITIES, in 1994.

                                          KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

San Jose, California
January 18, 1996


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

                         CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
    The  accounting  and reporting  policies of  Silicon Valley  Bancshares (the
"Company") and  its  subsidiaries  conform with  generally  accepted  accounting
principles  and  prevailing  practices  within  the  banking  industry.  Certain
reclassifications have been  made to  the Company's 1994  and 1993  consolidated
financial    statements   to   conform   to   the   1995   presentations.   Such
reclassifications had no effect  on the results  of operations or  shareholders'
equity.  The following is a summary  of the significant accounting and reporting
policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.

    NATURE OF OPERATIONS

    The Company is a bank holding company whose principal subsidiary is  Silicon
Valley Bank (the "Bank"), a California-chartered bank with headquarters in Santa
Clara,  California. The Bank maintains regional  banking offices in Northern and
Southern  California,   and  additionally   has   loan  offices   in   Maryland,
Massachusetts  and  Oregon. The  Bank serves  emerging and  middle-market growth
companies in specific targeted  niches, and focuses on  the technology and  life
sciences  industries,  while identifying  and  capitalizing on  opportunities to
serve other groups of clients with unique financial needs. Substantially all  of
the assets, liabilities, and earnings of the Company relate to its investment in
the Bank.

    CONSOLIDATION

    The  consolidated financial statements  include the accounts  of the Company
and those of  its wholly owned  subsidiaries, the Bank  and SVB Leasing  Company
(inactive).  The revenues, expenses, assets  and liabilities of the subsidiaries
are included  in  the  respective  line  items  in  the  consolidated  financial
statements after elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions.

    BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION

    The  preparation  of  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  Management  to  make  estimates  and
judgments  that affect the reported amounts of  assets and liabilities as of the
balance sheet date and the results of operations for the period. Actual  results
could  differ  from those  estimates. Material  estimates that  are particularly
susceptible to possible change in the  near term relate to the determination  of
the  allowance for  loan losses  and the  valuation of  other real  estate owned
(OREO). An estimate of possible changes  or range of possible changes cannot  be
made.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

    Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the consolidated statements of cash
flows  includes cash on hand,  cash balances due from  banks, federal funds sold
and securities purchased under agreement to resell.

    FEDERAL FUNDS SOLD AND SECURITIES PURCHASED UNDER AGREEMENT TO RESELL

    Federal funds  sold  and  securities purchased  under  agreement  to  resell
include  interest-bearing deposits  in other financial  institutions of $138,000
and $57,000 at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

    INVESTMENT SECURITIES

    The Company adopted Statement of  Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)  No.
115,  "Accounting  for Certain  Investments in  Debt  and Equity  Securities" on
January 1, 1994. Under this Statement, securities acquired with the ability  and
positive  intent to hold  to maturity are  classified as "held-to-maturity," and
are accounted for at historical cost, adjusted for the amortization of  premiums
or  the accretion of discounts to maturity, where appropriate. Unrealized losses
on held-to-maturity securities due  to fluctuations in  fair value are  realized
when  it  is  determined that  an  other  than temporary  decline  in  value has
occurred.   Securities   that   are   held   to   meet   investment   objectives


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
such  as interest rate risk  and liquidity management, but  which may be sold by
the Company  as needed  to implement  management strategies,  are classified  as
"available-for-sale,"  and are accounted for at fair value. Unrealized gains and
losses on available-for-sale  securities, after applicable  taxes, are  excluded
from  earnings and are reported as  a separate component of shareholders' equity
until realized. Gains and losses realized upon the sale of investment securities
are computed on the specific identification method.

    Upon adoption of  SFAS No.  115, the  Company classified  $253.5 million  of
investment   securities,  including  U.S.   Treasury  and  agencies  securities,
mortgage-backed securities  and other  taxable debt  and equity  securities,  as
available-for-sale, and recorded a pre-tax unrealized gain on such securities of
$2.5 million. The balance of $8.5 million in state and local municipal bonds was
classified as held-to-maturity.

    In  November 1995, the Financial Accounting  Standards Board issued "A Guide
to Implementation of Statement 115 on Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity  Securities" ("special  report"). Concurrent  with the  date of  this
special report, but no later than December 31, 1995, an enterprise was permitted
to reassess the appropriateness of the classifications of all securities held at
that  time. Reclassifications  of securities from  the held-to-maturity category
that resulted from this one-time reassessment  would not call into question  the
ability  or positive intent  of an enterprise  to hold other  debt securities to
maturity. On December 28, 1995, the Company reclassified its entire $6.2 million
held-to-maturity investment securities portfolio,  comprised of state and  local
municipal  bonds, as available-for-sale, and  recorded a pre-tax unrealized gain
on such securities of $0.4 million.

    LOANS

    Loans are  reported at  the principal  amount outstanding,  net of  unearned
income.  Unearned income includes deferred  loan origination and commitment fees
and deferred  loan origination  costs.  The net  amount  of unearned  income  is
amortized  into interest  income over  the contractual  terms of  the underlying
loans and commitments using the interest method or the straight-line method,  if
not materially different.

    ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

    The  allowance for loan losses is established through a provision charged to
expense. It is the Company's policy to  charge off loans which, in the  judgment
of Management, are deemed to have a substantial risk of loss.

    The  allowance for loan losses  is maintained at a  level deemed adequate by
the Company, based upon  various estimates and judgments,  to provide for  known
and inherent risks in the loan portfolio, including loan commitments and letters
of  credit. The evaluation of  the adequacy of the  allowance for loan losses is
based upon a continuous review of a number of factors, including historical loss
experience, a  review of  specific loans,  loan concentrations,  prevailing  and
anticipated  economic  conditions that  may impact  the borrowers'  abilities to
repay loans as well as the value of underlying collateral, delinquency analysis,
and an assessment of  credit risk in the  loan portfolio established through  an
ongoing  credit review  process by the  Company and  through periodic regulatory
examinations.

    NONACCRUAL LOANS

    The Company adopted SFAS No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of
a Loan" and SFAS No. 118, "Accounting  by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan  --
Income  Recognition and  Disclosures" effective  January 1,  1995. SFAS  No. 114
requires the Company  to measure  impairment of a  loan based  upon the  present
value  of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest
rate, except that as a practical  expedient, the Company may measure  impairment
based on


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
the  loan's observable market price  or the fair value  of the collateral if the
loan is collateral-dependent.  A loan  is considered impaired  when, based  upon
currently  known information and events, it is probable that the Company will be
unable to collect  all amounts  due according to  the contractual  terms of  the
agreement. The adoption of SFAS No. 114 and SFAS No. 118 did not have a material
impact  on the consolidated  financial position or results  of operations of the
Company.

    Loans are placed on nonaccrual status when  they become 90 days past due  as
to  principal  or  interest  payments (unless  the  principal  and  interest are
well-secured and in the process of collection), when the Company has determined,
based upon currently known information, that the timely collection of  principal
or  interest is doubtful, or when the  loans otherwise become impaired under the
provisions of SFAS No. 114.

    When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrued interest is reversed
against interest  income and  the loan  is accounted  for on  the cash  or  cost
recovery  method  thereafter  until  qualifying for  return  to  accrual status.
Generally, a  loan  will be  returned  to  accrual status  when  all  delinquent
interest  and principal becomes current in accordance with the terms of the loan
agreement and full collection of the principal appears probable.

    PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

    Premises and equipment are reported  at cost, less accumulated  depreciation
and  amortization  computed using  the straight-line  method over  the estimated
useful lives of  the assets or  the terms  of the related  leases, whichever  is
shorter.  This time period  may range from one  to 10 years.  The Company has no
capitalized lease obligations.

    OTHER REAL ESTATE OWNED

    Loans are transferred to OREO at the time of foreclosure. OREO is carried at
the lower  of the  recorded investment  in the  loan or  the fair  value of  the
property  less estimated costs of disposal. Upon  transfer of a loan to OREO, an
appraisal is obtained and any excess of the loan balance over the fair value  of
the  property less estimated costs of  disposal is charged against the allowance
for loan  losses. Revenues  and expenses  associated with  OREO, and  subsequent
adjustments  to the  fair value of  the property  and to the  estimated costs of
disposal, are realized and reported as  a component of noninterest expense  when
incurred.

    Upon  adoption  of  SFAS  No. 114,  certain  in-substance  foreclosure loans
previously classified as OREO were reclassified as nonaccrual loans. The  amount
of  loans reclassified  to conform  with this  new accounting  standard was $1.4
million at December 31, 1994.

    FOREIGN EXCHANGE FORWARD CONTRACTS

    The Company enters  into foreign exchange  forward contracts with  customers
involved  in international trade finance  activities, and enters into offsetting
foreign exchange forward contracts with correspondent banks to hedge against the
risk of fluctuations in foreign currency  exchange rates related to the  forward
contracts  entered into  with its  customers. The  notional or  contract amounts
associated with  these  financial instruments  are  not recorded  as  assets  or
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. Fees on these financial contracts
are  included in noninterest income when  the transaction is settled. Cash flows
resulting from these financial instruments  are classified in the same  category
as  the cash  flows resulting  from the  items being  hedged. The  Company is an
end-user of these derivative financial instruments and does not conduct  trading
activities for such instruments.

    INCOME TAXES

    The  Company and  the Bank  file a  consolidated federal  income tax return.
Consolidated or  combined state  income  tax returns  are filed  in  California,
Massachusetts, and Oregon. Effective


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
January  1,  1993, the  Company  adopted SFAS  No.  109, "Accounting  for Income
Taxes." Under SFAS  No. 109, provisions  for income taxes  are based upon  taxes
payable  for the current year as well  as current year changes in deferred taxes
related to temporary differences between  the tax basis and financial  statement
balances  of assets  and liabilities.  Deferred tax  assets and  liabilities are
included in  the financial  statements  at currently  enacted income  tax  rates
applicable  to the period in  which the deferred tax  assets and liabilities are
expected to be realized. As changes in  tax laws or rates are enacted,  deferred
tax assets and liabilities are adjusted through the provision for income taxes.

    NET INCOME PER SHARE COMPUTATION

    Net  income  per  common and  common  equivalent share  is  calculated using
weighted  average  shares,  including  the  dilutive  effect  of  stock  options
outstanding   during  the  period.  Weighted  average  shares  outstanding  were
9,164,135, 8,575,366 and 8,200,613 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

2.  RESTRICTIONS ON CASH BALANCES
    The Bank  is required  to  maintain reserves  against customer  deposits  by
keeping  balances with  the Federal Reserve  Bank in  a noninterest-bearing cash
account. The  minimum required  reserve  amounts were  $32.5 million  and  $27.1
million  at  December  31, 1995  and  1994, respectively.  The  average required
reserve balance totaled $24.6 million in 1995 and $19.7 million in 1994.

3.  INVESTMENT SECURITIES
    The following tables  detail the major  components of investment  securities
classified  as held-to-maturity, which are recorded at amortized cost, and those
classified as available-for-sale, which are recorded at fair value. At  December
31,  1995, all investment securities  were classified as available-for-sale. The
Company does not maintain a trading portfolio.




                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3.  INVESTMENT SECURITIES (CONTINUED)


    The amortized cost  and fair  value of investment  securities classified  as
available-for-sale  at December 31, 1995, by remaining contractual maturity, are
shown  below.   Expected  remaining   maturities  of   collateralized   mortgage
obligations  will differ from contractual  maturities because borrowers may have
the right  to  prepay  obligations  with  or  without  penalties.  Other  equity
securities were included in the table below as due after ten years.



    Investment  securities with a fair value  of $61.9 million and $36.0 million
at December 31,  1995 and  1994, respectively,  were pledged  to secure  certain
public deposits, foreign exchange activities at a correspondent bank, and a line
of credit at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window.

    During  1995,  gross  gains of  $6,000  and  gross losses  of  $774,000 were
realized on sales of available-for-sale  debt securities. In 1994, gross  losses
realized on sales of available-for-sale debt securities were $2.5 million, while
gross  gains were $100,000. During 1993, gross gains of $71,000 and gross losses
of $2,000 were realized on sales of debt securities.


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4.  LOANS
    The detailed composition of loans is presented in the following table:



- ------------------------
(1) Loans are presented net of unearned income of $3,813 and $3,654 at  December
    31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

    The  Company's loan classifications for  financial reporting purposes differ
from those for regulatory reporting purposes. Loans are classified for financial
reporting purposes based upon the purpose and primary source of repayment of the
loans. Loans are  classified for  regulatory reporting purposes  based upon  the
type of collateral securing the loans.

5.  ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
    The activity in the allowance for loan losses is summarized below:



    The  aggregate recorded  investment in loans  for which  impairment has been
realized in accordance with SFAS No.  114 totaled $27.9 million at December  31,
1995.  Allocations to the allowance for loan losses at December 31, 1995 related
to these impaired loans were $6.8 million. Average impaired loans for 1995  were
$16.1  million. If these loans  had not been impaired,  $1.4 million in interest
income would have  been realized during  the year ended  December 31, 1995.  The
Company realized no interest income on such impaired loans during 1995.

6.  PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT
    Premises and equipment consist of the following:




                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

6.  PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
    The  Company is obligated under a  number of noncancellable operating leases
for premises which expire  at various dates through  the year 2005. Such  leases
may  provide for  periodic adjustments  of rentals  based on  changes in various
economic  indicators.  The  following  table  presents  minimum  payments  under
noncancellable operating leases:



    Rent  expense for premises  leased under operating  leases was $2.0 million,
$1.4 million and $1.2 million for the  years ended December 31, 1995, 1994,  and
1993, respectively.

7.  INCOME TAXES
    Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for
Income  Taxes." The implementation of SFAS No. 109 did not materially impact the
Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations for 1993. The
components of the Company's provision for income taxes consist of the following:



    A reconciliation  between the  federal  statutory income  tax rate  and  the
Company's effective tax rate is shown below.




                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

7.  INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    Deferred  tax  assets  (liabilities)  are  comprised  of  the  following  as
accounted for under SFAS No. 109:



    The Company believes a valuation allowance  is not needed to reduce the  net
deferred  tax assets  as it is  more likely than  not that the  net deferred tax
assets will be realized through recovery of taxes previously paid and/or  future
taxable income.

8.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
    Effective  March 1, 1995, the Company's employee stock ownership plan (ESOP)
was merged with  and into the  Bank's 401(k) tax-deferred  savings plan and  the
merged plan was restated and renamed the Silicon Valley Bank 401(k) and Employee
Stock  Ownership  Plan (the  "plan"). Upon  adoption of  the plan,  all unvested
employee balances  under  the previous  401(k)  plan became  fully  vested.  All
employees of the Company are eligible to participate in the plan.

    Employees  participating in the 401(k)  plan may elect to  have a portion of
their salary deferred and contributed to the plan. The amount of salary deferred
is not subject to  federal or state  income taxes at the  time of deferral.  The
Company  matches up to $1,000  of an employee's contributions  in any plan year.
The matching contribution vests ratably over  five years. Under the current  and
previous  plans, the  Company's matching  contributions were  $0.3 million, $0.3
million and $0.2 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

    All individuals that are employed by the  Company on the first and last  day
of  a  fiscal  quarter  are  eligible for  quarterly  ESOP  contributions.  On a
quarterly basis, the  Company may  elect to  contribute cash,  or the  Company's
common  stock,  in  an  amount  not exceeding  5.0%  of  an  eligible employee's
quarterly base salary. Additionally, for all individuals employed by the Company
on the last day of the fiscal year, the Company may elect to contribute cash, or
the Company's common  stock, in an  amount not exceeding  10.0% of the  eligible
employee's  base salary earned in that year. The ESOP contributions vest ratably
over  five  years.  Under  the   current  and  previous  plans,  the   Company's
contributions to the ESOP totaled $2.5 million, $1.6 million and $0.9 million in
1995,  1994 and 1993, respectively. At December 31, 1995, the ESOP owned 431,520
equivalent shares of the Company's common stock. All shares held by the ESOP are
treated as outstanding shares in the computation of the Company's net income per
share.

    The  Company  has  an  employee  stock  purchase  plan  (ESPP)  under  which
participating  employees may  contribute up  to 10.0%  of their  compensation to
purchase shares of the Company's common stock


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

8.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
at 85.0%  of its  fair market  value  at either  the beginning  or end  of  each
six-month offering period, whichever price is less. All employees of the Company
are eligible to participate in the ESPP. The ESPP is noncompensatory and results
in  no expense to the Company. For  the first six-month offering period of 1995,
25,373 shares of the Company's common stock were issued under the ESPP at $11.48
per share, while  20,824 shares  of the Company's  common stock  were issued  at
$15.30  per share for the second six-month  offering period of 1995. At December
31, 1995, 168,411 shares of the Company's common stock were reserved for  future
issuance under the ESPP.

    The  Company's 1983 and 1989 stock option  plans provide for the granting of
incentive and non-qualified stock options which entitle directors, officers  and
key  employees, and  certain other parties  to purchase shares  of the Company's
common stock at a price not less than the fair market value of the common  stock
on  the date  the option is  granted. Options  vest over various  periods not in
excess of five years from  the date of grant and  expire five to ten years  from
the date of grant. The following table provides stock option information:



    At  December 31,  1995, options for  580,358 shares of  the Company's common
stock were exercisable  under the  stock option  plans, and  72,941 shares  were
available for future grant.

    The  Company's  1989 stock  option plan  also provides  for the  granting of
shares to directors and employees.  Shares granted to directors as  compensation
for  their services  are fully vested  on the  date of grant.  Shares granted to
employees may be subject to certain vesting requirements and resale restrictions
(restricted stock). For  restricted stock, unearned  compensation equivalent  to
the  market  value of  the  common stock  on  the date  of  grant is  charged to
shareholders' equity and  subsequently amortized into  noninterest expense  over
the  vesting term. There  were 75,000 shares of  restricted stock outstanding at
December 31, 1995,  and the vesting  of these shares  occurs at various  periods
through 1998.

    In  October 1995, the  Financial Accounting Standards  Board issued SFAS No.
123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation."  SFAS  No.  123  establishes
financial accounting and reporting standards for stock-based compensation plans,
including  employee stock  purchase plans,  stock options  and restricted stock.
SFAS No. 123 encourages all entities to adopt a fair value method of  accounting
for stock-based compensation plans, whereby compensation cost is measured at the
grant  date based on the fair  value of the award and  is realized as an expense
over the service or vesting period. However,


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

8.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
SFAS No. 123 also allows an entity to continue to measure compensation cost  for
these  plans  using  the  intrinsic value  method  of  accounting  prescribed by
Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion  No. 25, "Accounting for Stock  Issued
to  Employees," which is the  method currently being used  by the Company. Under
the intrinsic value  method, compensation  cost is the  excess, if  any, of  the
quoted  market price of  the stock at  the grant date  or other measurement date
over the amount which must be paid to acquire the stock.

    The Company  adopted  SFAS No.  123  effective  January 1,  1996,  but  will
continue  to account  for employee  and director  stock-based compensation plans
under the intrinsic value accounting  methodology prescribed by APB Opinion  No.
25.  SFAS No.  123 requires  that stock-based  compensation to  other parties be
accounted for under the fair value method. Based upon the information  available
as  of  December 31,  1995,  the effect  of adoption  of  this Statement  on the
consolidated financial position and results of operations of the Company is  not
expected to be material.

9.  RELATED PARTIES
    At  December  31, 1995,  the Company  had two  loans outstanding  to related
parties. In  1992, the  Board  of Directors  of the  Bank  adopted a  policy  to
prohibit new loan commitments to directors, officers or employees of the Company
and  the Bank. Term loans  to related parties existing  at December 31, 1992 are
allowed to run their  full term. When made,  these related party loans  included
terms, including interest rates and collateral requirements, comparable to those
prevailing at that time for similar transactions with unrelated parties, and did
not  involve  more  than the  normal  amount  of credit  risk  or  present other
unfavorable features. The balance of related party loans totaled $1.5 million at
December 31, 1995, which was a $0.6 million decrease from the prior year-end due
to repayments during 1995.

    In 1995, the Silicon Valley  Bank Foundation (the "Foundation") was  formed.
The  Foundation is funded  entirely by the  Company, and was  established by the
Company to maintain good corporate citizenship in its communities. In 1995,  the
Company contributed $0.1 million to the initial funding of the Foundation.

10. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK
    In  the normal  course of business,  the Company  uses financial instruments
with off-balance sheet risk to meet the financing needs of its customers and  to
reduce  its own  exposure to  fluctuations in  foreign currency  exchange rates.
These financial instruments include commitments to extend credit, commercial and
standby letters  of  credit,  and  foreign  exchange  forward  contracts.  These
instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit risk. Credit risk is
defined  as the possibility  of sustaining a  loss because other  parties to the
financial instrument  fail  to perform  in  accordance  with the  terms  of  the
contract.

    COMMITMENTS TO EXTEND CREDIT

    A  commitment to  extend credit  is a  formal agreement  to lend  funds to a
customer as long as there  is no violation of  any condition established in  the
agreement.  Such  commitments generally  have fixed  expiration dates,  or other
termination clauses, and  usually require a  fee paid by  the customer upon  the
Company  issuing the commitment. As  of December 31, 1995  and 1994, the Company
had $256.9 million and $374.7 million  of available unused loan commitments,  of
which  $10.4 million and $29.5 million  had a fixed interest rate, respectively.
The Company's exposure  arising from  interest rate risk  associated with  fixed
rate  loan  commitments  is  not  considered  material.  Commitments  which  are
unavailable for funding due to customers not meeting all collateral, compliance,
and financial covenants required under loan commitment agreements totaled $789.1
million and $474.4 million at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

10.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK (CONTINUED)

    The   Company's  potential  exposure  to  credit   loss,  in  the  event  of
nonperformance  by  the  other  party  to  the  financial  instrument,  is   the
contractual  amount of the  available unused loan  commitments. The Company uses
the same credit approval and monitoring process in extending loan commitments as
it does in making loans. The actual liquidity needs or the credit risk that  the
Company will experience will be lower than the contractual amount of commitments
to  extend  credit because  a significant  portion  of these  commitments expire
without being drawn upon. The Company evaluates each potential borrower and  the
necessary  collateral on an individual basis. The type of collateral varies, but
may include real property, bank deposits,  or business and personal assets.  The
potential  credit  risk  associated  with  these  commitments  is  considered in
Management's evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses.

    COMMERCIAL AND STANDBY LETTERS OF CREDIT

    Commercial and standby letters  of credit represent conditional  commitments
issued  by the Company on  behalf of a customer  to guarantee the performance of
the customer  to  a third  party.  These  guarantees are  issued  primarily  for
inventory  purchases by  customers and are  typically short-term  in nature. The
letters of credit have fixed expiration  dates and generally require a fee  paid
by  the customer  upon the Company  issuing the commitment.  Fees generated from
these letters of credit are recognized in noninterest income over the commitment
period. At December 31, 1995 and  1994, total commercial and standby letters  of
credit were $72.4 million and $64.7 million, respectively.

    The  credit risk  involved in issuing  letters of credit  is essentially the
same as  that  involved  with  extending  loan  commitments  to  customers,  and
accordingly,  the  Company uses  credit  evaluation and  collateral requirements
similar to those for loan commitments. The actual liquidity needs or the  credit
risk  that the Company will experience will be lower than the contractual amount
of letters of credit issued because  a significant portion of these  conditional
commitments   expire  without  being  drawn  upon.  The  potential  credit  risk
associated with letters of  credit is considered  in Management's evaluation  of
the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses.

    FOREIGN EXCHANGE FORWARD CONTRACTS

    The  Company enters into  foreign exchange forward  contracts with customers
involved in international trade finance  activities, either as the purchaser  or
seller of foreign currency at a future date, depending on the customer need. The
Company   enters  into  offsetting  foreign   exchange  forward  contracts  with
correspondent banks  to  hedge  against  the risk  of  fluctuations  in  foreign
currency  exchange rates related to the  forward contracts entered into with its
customers. These contracts are short-term in nature, typically expiring in  less
than  90 days.  At December  31, 1995  and 1994,  the notional  amounts of these
contracts were $29.0  million and $14.4  million, respectively. Credit  exposure
for  foreign exchange forward contracts is equal to the unrealized gains in such
contracts. Total unrealized  gains on  these contracts with  both customers  and
correspondent  banks  amounted to  $0.5 million  at December  31, 1995  and $0.3
million  at  December  31,  1994.  The  Company  has  incurred  no  losses  from
counterparty nonperformance and anticipates performance by all counterparties to
such foreign exchange forward contracts.

11. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
    SFAS  No.  107, "Disclosures  about  Fair Value  of  Financial Instruments,"
requires that  the Company  disclose  estimated fair  values for  its  financial
instruments.  Fair value estimates, methods and assumptions, set forth below for
the Company's  financial  instruments,  are  made  solely  to  comply  with  the
requirements  of  SFAS  No. 107  and  should  be read  in  conjunction  with the
Company's consolidated financial statements and related notes.


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

11. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
    Fair values are based on estimates or calculations at the transaction  level
using  present value techniques in instances  where quoted market prices are not
available. Because broadly traded markets do not exist for most of the Company's
financial instruments, the  fair value calculations  attempt to incorporate  the
effect  of current  market conditions  at a  specific time.  Fair valuations are
Management's estimates of  the values, and  they are often  calculated based  on
current   pricing  policies,  the  economic  and  competitive  environment,  the
characteristics of the  financial instruments, expected  losses, and other  such
factors.  These calculations are subjective in nature, involve uncertainties and
matters  of  significant  judgment,  and  do  not  include  tax   ramifications;
therefore,  the results  cannot be  determined with  precision, substantiated by
comparison to independent markets, and may not be realized in an actual sale  or
immediate settlement of the instruments. There may be inherent weaknesses in any
calculation technique, and changes in the underlying assumptions used, including
discount  rates and estimates  of future cash  flows, could significantly affect
the results.  For  all of  these  reasons, the  aggregation  of the  fair  value
calculations presented herein does not represent, and should not be construed to
represent, the underlying value of the Company.

    The  following methods and  assumptions have been used  to estimate the fair
value of each  class of  financial instruments for  which it  is practicable  to
estimate the value.

    CASH  AND CASH EQUIVALENTS:  This category includes cash and due from banks,
interest-bearing deposits in  other financial institutions,  federal funds  sold
and  securities  purchased  under  agreement  to  resell.  For  these short-term
financial instruments,  the carrying  amount is  a reasonable  estimate of  fair
value.

    INVESTMENT  SECURITIES:  For securities  classified as available-for-sale or
held-to-maturity, fair  values  are based  on  quoted market  prices  or  dealer
quotes.

    LOANS:    The fair  value of  performing  fixed and  variable rate  loans is
calculated by  discounting  contractual cash  flows  using discount  rates  that
reflect  the Company's current pricing for loans with similar credit ratings and
for the same remaining maturities.  Nonperforming fixed and variable rate  loans
and  loans classified  as special  mention, substandard  or doubtful  are valued
using assumptions as  to the expected  timing and extent  of principal  recovery
with no recovery assumed for contractual interest owed.

    DEPOSITS:   The  fair value  of deposits  with no  stated maturity,  such as
noninterest-bearing demand deposits, savings  accounts, NOW accounts, and  money
market  deposits is equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date.
The fair value of time deposits is based on the discounted value of  contractual
cash  flows. The discount rate is estimated using the rates currently offered by
the Company for time deposits with similar remaining maturities. The fair  value
does  not include the benefit that results from the low cost of funding provided
by the Company's  deposits as compared  to the  cost of borrowing  funds in  the
market.

    OFF-BALANCE  SHEET FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:  The Company has not estimated the
fair value of off-balance sheet commitments to extend credit, commercial letters
of credit and standby letters of credit. Because of the uncertainty involved  in
attempting to assess the likelihood and timing of a commitment being drawn upon,
coupled  with the lack of an established market for these financial instruments,
Management does not  believe it  is meaningful to  provide an  estimate of  fair
value.

    The  fair  value  of foreign  exchange  forward  contracts is  based  on the
estimated amounts the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at
the reporting date (i.e., mark-to-market value).

    LIMITATIONS:   The  information  presented  herein  is  based  on  pertinent
information  available  to  the  Company  as  of  December  31,  1995  and 1994,
respectively. Although Management is not aware of


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

11. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
any factors that would  significantly affect the  estimated fair value  amounts,
such  amounts  have  not been  comprehensively  revalued since  the  most recent
year-end and the estimated fair values  of these financial instruments may  have
changed significantly since that point in time.

    The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments at December
31,  1995 and 1994 are presented below.  Bracketed amounts in the estimated fair
value  columns  represent  estimated  cash  outflows  required  to  settle   the
obligations at market rates as of the respective reporting dates.



12. LEGAL MATTERS
    On  June 1, 1993, a shareholder class action lawsuit was filed in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California naming the Company
and the Bank, certain directors and officers, and others as defendants. The suit
alleged, among other  things, that  the defendants misrepresented  or failed  to
disclose  material facts  about the  Company's operations  and financial results
which the plaintiff contends  affected the price of  the Company's common  stock
from  January  9, 1991  through October  12,  1992. On  September 30,  1994, the
Company entered into a settlement  agreement with the plaintiff. The  settlement
agreement  was approved  by the  court effective  November 28,  1994. Settlement
amounts and  costs  relating  to  this agreement  were  fully  realized  in  the
operating results of the Company for the year ended December 31, 1994.

    Additionally,  certain lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary course of
business have been  filed or are  pending against the  Bank and/or the  Company.
Based  upon information available to  the Company, its review  of such claims to
date and  consultation  with  its counsel,  Management  believes  the  liability
relating  to these actions, if  any, will not have  a material adverse effect on
the  Company's  liquidity,  consolidated   financial  position  or  results   of
operations.

13. REGULATORY MATTERS
    During 1993, the Company and the Bank consented to formal supervisory orders
by  the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the Bank consented to a formal
supervisory order  by  the California  State  Banking Department.  These  orders
require, among other actions, the following: suspension


                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

13. REGULATORY MATTERS (CONTINUED)
of cash dividends; restrictions on transactions between the Company and the Bank
without  prior regulatory approval; development of  a capital plan to ensure the
Bank  maintains  adequate  capital   levels  subject  to  regulatory   approval;
development of plans to improve the quality of the Bank's loan portfolio through
collection  or improvement of the credits  within specified time frames; changes
to the  Bank's loan  policies which  require the  Directors' Loan  Committee  to
approve  all loans to any one borrower  exceeding $3.0 million and requiring the
Board of Directors to become more actively involved in loan portfolio management
and monitoring activities; review of, and  changes in, the Bank's loan  policies
to  implement (i) policies for controlling and monitoring credit concentrations,
(ii) underwriting  standards for  all  loan products,  and (iii)  standards  for
credit  analysis and  credit file  documentation; development  of an independent
loan  review  function  and  related   loan  review  policies  and   procedures;
development  of Board of Directors oversight  programs to establish and maintain
effective control and supervision  of Management and  major Bank operations  and
activities;  development of a plan, including a written methodology, to maintain
an adequate allowance for  loan losses, defined  as a minimum  of 2.0% of  total
loans;  development of  business plans  to establish  guidelines for  growth and
ensure maintenance  of  adequate capital  levels;  a review  and  evaluation  of
existing compensation practices and development of officer compensation policies
and  procedures by the Boards of Directors of the Company and the Bank; policies
requiring that changes  in fees paid  to directors  as well as  bonuses paid  to
executive  officers  first receive  regulatory  approval; and  development  of a
detailed internal audit plan for approval by the Board of Directors of the Bank.
The California  State Banking  Department  order further  requires the  Bank  to
maintain a minimum tangible equity-to-assets ratio of 6.5%.

    In  addition, such plans, policies and procedures may not be amended without
prior regulatory approval. The Company and the Bank have taken steps to  address
these  requirements. The Company believes compliance  with these actions has not
and will not have  a material adverse  impact on the business  of the Bank,  its
clients, or the Company. The Company and the Bank were in substantial compliance
with such orders at December 31, 1995.

14. PARENT COMPANY ONLY CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
    The  condensed balance sheets  of Silicon Valley  Bancshares (parent company
only) at December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related condensed income statements
and condensed statements of  cash flows for the  years ended December 31,  1995,
1994 and 1993 are presented below:

                            CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS




                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

14. PARENT COMPANY ONLY CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)

                          CONDENSED INCOME STATEMENTS



                       CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS




                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

15. UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA




ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The  information  set forth  under the  sections titled  "Proposal No.  1 --
Election of  Directors," "Information  on Executive  Officers," and  "Compliance
with  Section  16(a) of  the  Exchange Act"  contained  in the  definitive proxy
statement for the Company's 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is  incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The  information  set  forth  under  the  sections  titled  "Information  on
Executive Officers," "Report of the Personnel and Compensation Committee of  the
Board on Executive Compensation," "Table 1 -- Summary Compensation," "Table 2 --
Option  Grants in Fiscal Year 1995," "Table  3 -- Aggregated Option Exercises in
Fiscal Year 1995 and Fiscal Year-End Option Values," "Termination Arrangements,"
and "Director Compensation" contained in the definitive proxy statement for  the
Company's  1996  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information set forth under  the sections titled "Security Ownership  of
Directors  and Executive Officers" and "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners" contained  in the  definitive  proxy statement  for the  Company's  1996
Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The  information set forth  under the section  titled "Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions" in  the definitive proxy  statement for the  Company's
1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a) 1. and 2.
      The  financial statements  and supplementary data  contained in  Item 8 of
      this report are filed as part of this report.

      All schedules are omitted because of  the absence of the conditions  under
      which they are required or because the required information is included in
      the financial statements or related notes.

    (a) 3.
       Exhibits are listed in the Index to Exhibits beginning on page 63 of this
       report.

    (b) Reports on Form 8-K.
       No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the quarter ended
       December 31, 1995.


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                          SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES

                                          By: _________/s/_JOHN C. DEAN_________
                                                        John C. Dean
                                                PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
                                                           OFFICER

Dated: March 11, 1996

    Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report  has been signed below by the  following persons in the capacities and on
the dates indicated:







                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS




                         INDEX TO EXHIBITS (CONTINUED)



- ------------------------
 (1) Incorporated  by reference  to Exhibits  3.1, 4.1,  10.1 and  10.10 to  the
    Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
    1988.

 (2) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's Annual Report on
    Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1985.


                         INDEX TO EXHIBITS (CONTINUED)

 (3) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.19, 10.20, 10.21, 10.22, and 10.23
    to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter  ended
    June 30, 1995.

 (4) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company's Annual Report on
    Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987.

 (5) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Annual Report on
    Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989.

 (6)  Incorporated by reference to the  Company's Registration Statement on Form
    S-8/S-3 filed on October 11, 1994.

 (7) Incorporated by  reference to  Exhibits 10.11  and 10.12  to the  Company's
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990.

 (8)  Incorporated by reference  to Exhibit 10.14  to the Company's Registration
    Statement on Form S-8 filed on October 31, 1991.

 (9) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.15 to the Company's Annual  Report
    on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991.

(10)  Incorporated by  reference to Exhibits  10.1(a), 10.1  (b), 10.3, 10.9(a),
    10.12(a), and 10.16  to the  Company's Annual Report  on Form  10-K for  the
    fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.

(11) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.24, 10.25, 10.26, and 10.27 to the
    Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
    1995.

(12) Incorporated by  reference to Exhibits  3.2, 10.10(a), 10.10(b),  10.11(a),
    10.12(b),  10.17, and 10.18 to the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for
    the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.


