ITEM 1. BUSINESS



GENERAL



AT&T Inc. (“AT&T,” “we” or the “Company”) is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive offices at 208 S. Akard St., Dallas, Texas, 75202 (telephone number 210-821-4105). We maintain an Internet website at www.att.com. (This website address is for information only and is not intended to be an active link or to incorporate any website information into this document.) We make available, free of charge, on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on that website, and in print, if any stockholder or other person so requests, our code of business conduct and ethics entitled “Code of Ethics” applicable to all employees and Directors, our “Corporate Governance Guidelines,” and the charters for all committees of our Board of Directors, including Audit, Human Resources and Corporate Governance and Nominating. Any changes to our Code of Ethics or waiver of our Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, executive officers or Directors will be posted on that website.



History

AT&T, formerly known as SBC Communications Inc. (SBC), was formed as one of several regional holding companies created to hold AT&T Corp.’s (ATTC) local telephone companies. On January 1, 1984, we were spun-off from ATTC pursuant to an anti-trust consent decree, becoming an independent publicly-traded telecommunications services provider. At formation, we primarily operated in five southwestern states. Our subsidiaries merged with Pacific Telesis Group in 1997, Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation in 1998 and Ameritech Corporation in 1999, thereby expanding our wireline operations as the incumbent local exchange carrier (ILEC) into a total of 13 states. In November 2005, one of our subsidiaries merged with ATTC, creating one of the world’s leading telecommunications providers. In connection with the merger, we changed the name of our company from “SBC Communications Inc.” to “AT&T Inc.” In December 2006, one of our subsidiaries merged with BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth) making us the ILEC in an additional nine states. With the BellSouth acquisition, we thereby acquired BellSouth’s 40 percent economic interest in AT&T Mobility LLC (AT&T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC, resulting in 100 percent ownership of AT&T Mobility. Our services and products are marketed under the AT&T brand name.



Scope

We are a leading provider of telecommunications services in the United States and the world. We offer our services and products to consumers in the U.S. and services and products to businesses and other providers of telecommunications services worldwide.



The services and products that we offer vary by market, and include: wireless communications, local exchange services, long-distance services, data/broadband and Internet services, video services, telecommunications equipment, managed networking, and wholesale services. We group our operating subsidiaries as follows, corresponding to our operating segments for financial reporting purposes:

·wireless subsidiaries provide both wireless voice and data communications services across the U.S. and, through roaming agreements, in a substantial number of foreign countries.

·wireline subsidiaries provide primarily landline voice and data communication services, AT&T U-verse®high-speed broadband, video, and voice services (U-verse) and managed networking to business customers.

·other subsidiaries include results from corporate and other operations, our portion of  results from our equity investments and impacts from corporate-wide decisions for which the individual operating segments are not being evaluated.



On May 8, 2012, we sold our Advertising Solutions segment. Subsidiaries in this segment published Yellow and White Pages directories and sold directory advertising and Internet-based advertising and local search. As part of the sale, we received a 47 percent equity interest in the new entity YP Holdings LLC (YP Holdings).



Our local exchange subsidiaries operate as the ILEC in 22 states: Alabama, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Kansas, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Wisconsin (22-state area). Our local exchange subsidiaries are subject to regulation by each state in which they operate and by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Wireless service providers are regulated by the FCC. Additional information relating to regulation is contained under the heading “Government Regulation” and in the Annual Report under the heading “Operating Environment and Trends of the Business,” and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).





1AT&T Inc.With the expansion of our company through acquisitions and the resulting ownership consolidation of AT&T Mobility, and with continuing advances in technology, our services offerings now combine our traditional wireline and wireless services. We make our customers’ lives more convenient and productive and foster competition and further innovation in the communications and entertainment industry. In 2013, we plan to focus on the areas discussed below.



Wireless

AT&T Mobility began operations in October 2000 as a joint venture between us and BellSouth and, in 2004, acquired AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. Upon our acquisition of BellSouth in 2006, AT&T Mobility became a wholly-owned subsidiary. As of December 31, 2012, we served 107 million subscribers.



We cover most major metropolitan areas of the United States with our Universal Mobile Telecommunications System/High-Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSPA) and HSPA+ network technology, with HSPA+ providing 4G speeds when combined with our upgraded backhaul. At the end of 2012, over 90 percent of our data traffic was carried over this enhanced backhaul. Our network provides superior mobile broadband speeds for data and video services, as well as operating efficiencies using the same spectrum and infrastructure for voice and data on an IP-based platform. Our wireless network also relies on digital transmission technologies known as GSM, General Packet Radio Services and Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE) for data communications. We have also begun transitioning our network to next generation LTE technology and expect this network to cover approximately 300 million people in the United States and to be largely complete by the end of 2014. We continue to expand the number of locations, including airports and cafés, where customers can access broadband Internet connections using wireless fidelity (local radio frequency commonly referred to as Wi-Fi) technology.



As the wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth will increasingly depend on our ability to offer innovative data services and a wireless network that has sufficient spectrum and capacity to support these innovations and make them available to more subscribers. We are facing significant spectrum and capacity constraints on our wireless network in certain markets. We expect such constraints to increase and expand to additional markets in the coming years. While we are continuing to invest significant capital in expanding our network capacity, our capacity constraints could affect the quality of existing voice and data services and our ability to launch new, advanced wireless broadband services, unless we are able to obtain more spectrum. Any long-term spectrum solution will require that the FCC make new or existing spectrum available to the wireless industry to meet the expanding needs of our subscribers. We will continue to attempt to address spectrum and capacity constraints on a market-by-market basis. To that end, we signed nearly 50 deals to acquire spectrum during 2012 (some pending regulatory review). Much of the recently acquired spectrum came from an innovative solution in which we obtained FCC approval to use WCS spectrum for mobile broadband for the first time.



Also as part of our efforts to improve our network performance and help address the need for additional spectrum capacity, we intend to redeploy spectrum currently used for basic 2G services to support more advanced mobile Internet services on our 3G and 4G networks. We will manage this process consistent with previous network upgrades and will transition customers on a market-by-market basis from our Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) and EDGE networks (referred to as 2G networks) to our more advanced 3G and 4G networks. We expect to fully discontinue service on our 2G networks by approximately January 1, 2017. As of December 31, 2012, about 8 percent of AT&T’s postpaid subscribers used 2G-capable handsets. We do not expect this transition to have a material impact on our operating results.



Business Customers

We expect to continue to strengthen the reach and sophistication of our network facilities and our ability to offer a variety of communications services, both wireless and wireline, to large businesses, governmental and wholesale customers worldwide. We expect to offer similar services to small- and medium-businesses and to increase the attractiveness of our services to governmental customers. We also expect to extend our wholesale business offerings to other service products and systems integration services.



Data/Broadband

As the communications industry continues to move toward Internet-based technologies that are capable of blending traditional wireline and wireless services, we plan to offer services that take advantage of these new and more sophisticated technologies. In particular, we intend to continue to focus on expanding our AT&T U-verse high-speed broadband and video offerings and on developing IP-based services that allow customers to unite their home or business wireline services with their wireless service.





2AT&T Inc.U-verse ServicesDuring 2012, we continued to expand our offerings of U-verse High Speed Internet and TV services. As of December 31, 2012, we are marketing U-verse services to approximately 24.5 million customer locations (locations eligible to receive U-verse service). As of December 31, 2012, we had 8.0 million total U-verse subscribers (high-speed Internet and video), including 7.7 million Internet and 4.5 million video subscribers (subscribers to both services are only counted once in the total). As part of Project Velocity IP (VIP), we plan to expand our U-verse services to an additional approximately 8.5 million customer locations.



We believe that our U-verse TV service is a “video service” under the Federal Communications Act. However, some cable providers and municipalities have claimed that certain IP services should be treated as a traditional cable service and therefore subject to the applicable state and local cable regulation. Certain municipalities have delayed our requests to offer this service or have refused us permission to use our existing or new right-of-ways to deploy or activate our U-verse-related equipment, services and products, resulting in litigation. Petitions have been filed at the FCC alleging that the manner in which we provision “public, educational and governmental” (PEG) programming over our U-verse TV service conflicts with federal law, and a lawsuit has been filed in a California state superior court raising similar allegations under California law. If courts having jurisdiction where we have significant deployments of our U-verse services were to decide that federal, state and/or local cable regulation were applicable to our U-verse services, or if the FCC, state agencies or the courts were to rule that we must deliver PEG programming in a manner substantially different from the way we do today or in ways that are inconsistent with our current network architecture, it could have a material adverse effect on the cost and extent of our U-verse offerings.



Voice over Internet Protocol(VoIP)VoIP is generally used to describe the transmission of voice using IP-based technology rather than a traditional wire and switch-based telephone network. A company using this technology can often provide voice services at a lower cost because this technology uses bandwidth more efficiently than a traditional network and because this technology has not been subject to traditional telephone industry regulation. While the development of VoIP has resulted in increased competition for our wireless and wireline voice services, it also presents growth opportunities for us to develop new products for our customers.



Project VIPIn November 2012, we announced plans to significantly expand and enhance our wireless and wireline broadband networks to support future IP data growth and new services. As part of Project VIP, we plan to expand our deployment of LTE wireless technology and deploy additional technology to further improve wireless spectrum efficiencies. To that end, we expect to cover at least 250 million people in the United States by year-end 2013 and approximately 300 million people in the United States by the end of 2014. In addition, we plan to expand our wireline IP broadband network to additional residential and small-business customer locations to cover approximately 75 percent of all such customer locations in our 22-state wireline service area by year-end 2015. This project is intended to support new revenue opportunities in four key areas: wireless, strategic network services, network managed (“cloud”) services and security as well as continued growth in existing wireless, U-verse and IP-related business services. We expect capital expenditures in the $21 billion range for 2013, and 2014 and 2015 to each be approximately $22 billion, and then decrease to pre-Project VIP levels.



BUSINESS OPERATIONS



OPERATING SEGMENTS

Our segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services over various technology platforms and are managed accordingly. We analyze our operating segments based on segment income before income taxes. We make our capital allocations decisions based on our strategic direction of the business, needs of the network (wireless or wireline) providing services and other assets needed to provide emerging services to our customers. Actuarial gains and losses from pension and other postemployment benefits, interest expense and other income (expense) – net, are managed only on a total company basis and are, accordingly, reflected only in consolidated results. Therefore, these items are not included in the calculation of each segment’s reportable results. The customers and long lived assets of our reportable segments are predominantly in the United States. Each segment’s percentage of total segment operating revenue and income calculations is derived from our segment results, and income percentage may total more than 100 percent due to losses in one or more segments. At December 31, 2012, we had three reportable segments: (1) Wireless, (2) Wireline, and (3) Other. Our Operating results prior to May 9, 2012, also included Advertising Solutions, which was a reportable segment. On May 8, 2012, we completed the sale of our Advertising Solutions segment and received a 47 percent equity interest in the new entity YP Holdings.



Additional information about our segments, including financial information, is included under the heading “Segment Results” on pages 33 through 40 and in Note 3 of the Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).





3AT&T Inc.



WIRELESS

Wireless consists of our subsidiary, AT&T Mobility, which operates as a wireless provider to both business and consumer subscribers. Our Wireless segment provided approximately 52% of 2012 total segment operating revenues and 70% of our 2012 total segment income. At December 31, 2012, we served 107 million wireless subscribers. We classify our subscribers as either postpaid, prepaid, connected device or reseller.



Services and Products

We offer a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice and data communications services in a variety of pricing plans, including postpaid and prepaid service plans. Our offerings are tailored to meet the communications needs of targeted customer segments, including youth, family, active professionals, small businesses, government and major national corporate accounts.



Service –Our voice service is generally offered on a contract basis for one- or two-year periods, referred to as postpaid. Under the terms of these contracts, service is billed and provided on a monthly basis according to the applicable rate plan chosen. Our wireless services include basic local wireless communications service, long-distance service and roaming services. Roaming services enable our subscribers to utilize other carriers’ networks when they are “roaming” outside our network footprint. We also charge fees to other carriers for providing roaming services to their customers when their customers utilize our network. We also offer prepaid voice service to certain customers who prefer to control usage or pay in advance.





Equipment –We sell a wide variety of handsets, wirelessly enabled computers (i.e., notebooks and tablets) and personal computer wireless data cards manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents or third-party retail stores. We also sell accessories, such as carrying cases, hands-free devices, batteries, battery chargers and other items, to consumers, as well as to agents and third-party distributors for resale. Like other wireless service providers, we often provide postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to initiate, renew or upgrade service.



Equity in net income (loss) of affiliates for the Wireless segment includes expenses from our mobile payment joint venture with Verizon and T-Mobile, marketed as the Isis Mobile WalletTM(ISIS).



Additional information on our Wireless segment is contained in the Annual Report in the “Operating Environment Overview” section under the heading “Expected Growth Areas,” “Wireless” beginning on page 41 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



WIRELINE

Our Wireline subsidiaries provide both retail and wholesale communication services domestically and internationally. Our Wireline segment provided approximately 47% of 2012 segment operating revenues and 30% of our 2012 total segment income. We divide our wireline services into three product-based categories: data, voice and other. Revenues from our traditional voice services have been declining as customers have been switching to wireless, cable and other Internet-based providers. In addition, the continuing economic climate has caused wireline customers to terminate their residential or business phone service as individuals have lost jobs or otherwise combined households and businesses have closed or reduced operations. We have responded by offering packages of combined voice and data services, including broadband and video, and intend to continue this strategy during 2013.





4AT&T Inc.Services and Products

Data –We provide data services that rely on IP-based technology and data services that rely on older, circuit-based technology. We provide businesses voice applications over IP-based networks (i.e., Enhanced Virtual Private Networks or “EVPN”). Over the past several years, we have built out our new IP/MPLS (Internet Protocol/MultiProtocol Label Switching) network, to supplement our IP-based product set, and eventually replace our older circuit-based networks and services. These products allow us to provide highly complex global data networks. Additional IP-based services include Internet access and network integration, dedicated Internet and enterprise networking services, U-verse services and related data equipment sales.



Our circuit-based, traditional data products include switched and dedicated transport services that allow business customers to transmit data at high speeds, as well as DSL and dial-up Internet access. Our private line offering uses high-capacity digital circuits to transmit from point-to-point in multiple configurations and allows customers to create internal data networks and to access external data networks. Switched Transport services transmit data using switching equipment to transfer the data between multiple lines before reaching its destination. Dedicated Transport services use a single direct line to transmit data between destinations. DSL is a digital modem technology that converts existing twisted-pair telephone lines into access paths for multimedia and high-speed data communications to the Internet or private networks. DSL allows customers to simultaneously make a phone call and access information via the Internet or local area network (LAN). Digital Services use dedicated digital circuits to transmit digital data at various high rates of speed.



Network integration services include installation of business data systems, local area networking and other data networking offerings. Internet access services include a wide range of products for residences and businesses including basic dial-up access service, dedicated access, web hosting, managed services, e-mail and high-speed access services. Our managed web-hosting services for businesses provide network, server and security infrastructure as well as built-in data storage and include application performance management, database management, hardware and operating system management. Our hosting services also provide customers with secure access to detailed reporting information about their infrastructure and applications. These services are evolving to a cloud delivery model, providing customers with on demand data storage and computing capabilities from a centrally-managed network (referred to as the cloud) accessible from a variety of different devices and locations.



Packet services consist of data networks using packet switching and transmission technologies, including traditional circuit-based, and IP connectivity services. Packet services enable customers to transmit large volumes of data economically and securely and are used for LAN interconnection, remote site, point of sale and branch office communications. High-speed packet services are used extensively by enterprise (large business) customers.



Enterprise networking services provide comprehensive support from network design, implementation and installation to ongoing network operations and management for networks of varying scales, including LANs, wide area networks, and virtual private networks. These services include applications such as e-mail, order entry systems, employee directories, human resource transactions and other database applications. We also offer Wi-Fi service.



We provide local, interstate and international wholesale networking capacity to other service providers. We offer a combination of high-volume transmission capacity and conventional dedicated line services on a regional, national and international basis to wireless carriers, interexchange carriers, Internet service providers (ISPs) and facility-based and switchless resellers. Our wholesale customers are primarily large ISPs, wireless carriers, competitive local exchange carriers (CLECs), regional phone companies, interexchange carriers, cable companies and systems integrators.



Voice– Voice includes traditional local and long-distance service provided to retail customers and wholesale access to our network and individual network elements provided to competitors. At December 31, 2012, our wireline subsidiaries served approximately 16 million retail consumer access lines, 14 million retail business access lines and 2 million wholesale access lines. We also have a number of integrated voice and data services, such as integrated network connections, that provide customers the ability to integrate access for their voice and data services, the data component of which is included in data revenues. Additionally, voice revenues do not include any of our VoIP revenues, which are included in data revenues.



Long distance consists of traditional long distance and international long distance for customers that select us as their primary long-distance carrier. Long distance also includes services provided by calling card, 1-800 services and conference calling. These services are used in a wide variety of business applications, including sales, reservation centers or customer service centers. We also provide wholesale switched access service to other service providers.





5AT&T Inc.Voice also includes calling features, fees to maintain wire located inside customer premises and other miscellaneous voice products. Calling features are enhanced telephone services available to retail customers such as Caller ID, Call Waiting and voice mail. These calling features services are generally more profitable than basic local phone service.



Other –Other includes application management, security service, integration services, customer premises equipment, outsourcing, government-related services, customer information services and satellite video services. Security services include business continuity and disaster recovery services as well as premise and network based security products.



Customer premises equipment and other equipment sales range from single-line and cordless telephones to sophisticated digital Private Branch Exchange (PBX) systems. PBX is a private telephone switching system, typically used by businesses and usually located on a customer’s premises, which provides intra-premise telephone services as well as access to our network.



OTHER

Our Other segment includes corporate and other operations and impacts from corporate-wide decisions for which the individual operating segments are not being evaluated. The Other segment provided less than 1% of total segment operating revenues in 2012. In 2012, segment operating expenses exceeded revenues. We also include in this segment the equity income (loss) from our international investments in América Móvil, S.A. de C.V., and our 47 percent equity interest in YP Holdings.



MAJOR CLASSES OF SERVICE



The following table sets forth the percentage of total consolidated reported operating revenues by any class of service that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated total operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal years:



Percentage of TotalConsolidated Operating Revenues201220112010Wireless SegmentWireless service46%45%43%Equipment16%5%4%Wireline SegmentData25%23%22%Voice18%20%23%Other24%4%5%

1Equipment is reported as “Other” revenue on our consolidated statements of income.

2Includes integration services and customer premises equipment, governmental-related services and outsourcing.



GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Wireless communications providers must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC. The FCC’s rules have a direct impact on whether the wireless industry has sufficient spectrum available to support the high quality, innovative services our customers demand. Wireless licenses are issued for a fixed time period, typically ten years, and we must seek renewal of these licenses. While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to operating companies such as us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public interest. Additionally, while wireless communications providers’ prices and service offerings are generally not subject to regulation, the federal government and various states are considering new regulations and legislation relating to various aspects of wireless services.



Our wireline subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state governments, which have the power to regulate intrastate rates and services, including local, long-distance and network access services, provided such state regulation is consistent with federal law. Some states have eliminated or reduced regulations on our retail offerings. These subsidiaries are also subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC with respect to intercarrier compensation, interconnection, and interstate and international rates and services, including interstate access charges. Access charges are a form of intercarrier compensation designed to compensate our wireline subsidiaries for the use of their networks by other carriers.





6AT&T Inc.



Our subsidiaries operating outside the United States are subject to the jurisdiction of national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is provided. Regulation is generally limited to operational licensing authority for the provision of enterprise services.



Section 219 of theIran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRA) added new section 13(r) to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, requiring a public reporting issuer to disclose in its annual and quarterly reports whether it or any of its affiliates have knowingly engaged in specific activities or transactions relating to Iran during the period covered by the report, including activities not prohibited by U.S. law and conducted outside the U.S. by non-U.S. affiliates in compliance with local law.AT&T had no activities in 2012 that required reporting under ITRA. AT&T holds a 9.55% interest in América Móvil, which is more fully described on page 71 of the 2012 Annual Report to Stockholders. América Móvil has reported to AT&T that it and certain of its subsidiaries have entered into roaming interconnection agreements with MTN Irancell. To date, América Móvil and its subsidiaries have no revenues under the agreement. We understand that América Móvil intends to continue this relationship.Additional information relating to regulation of our subsidiaries is contained in the AnnualReportunder the headings “Operating Environment Overview” beginning on page 41 and “Regulatory Developments” beginning on page 42 and are incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



IMPORTANCE, DURATION ANDEFFECTOF LICENSES





MAJOR CUSTOMER



No customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in 2012, 2011 or 2010.



COMPETITION



Information relating to competition in each of our operating segments is contained in the Annual Report under the heading “Competition” beginning on page 43, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).





7AT&T Inc.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTAT&T Labs’ scientists and engineers conduct research in a variety of areas, including IP networking; advanced network design and architecture; network and cyber security, network operations support systems; data mining techniques and advanced speech technologies. The majority of the development activities are performed by AT&T Services, Inc. The developers within AT&T Services, Inc. work with our business units and AT&T Labs to create new services and invent tools and systems to manage secure and reliable networks for us and our customers. We have recently initiated a technology outreach effort aimed at venture capital funded startups with the objective of rapidly introducing new solutions, products and applications developed by third parties. We also have a research agreement with Ericsson. Research and development expenses were $1,278 million in 2012, $1,307 million in 2011, and $1,280 million in 2010.EMPLOYEES





At December 31, 2012, we had approximately 331,741 retirees who, along with their dependents, were eligible to receive retiree benefits.





8AT&T Inc.



