ITEM
1. BUSINESS



GENERAL



AT&T
Inc. (“AT&T,” “we” or the “Company”) is a holding company incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive
offices at208 S. Akard St.,
Dallas Texas, 75202(telephone number 210-821-4105). We maintain an
Internet website at www.att.com. (This website address is for information only
and is not intended to be an active link or to incorporate any website
information into this document.)  We make available, free of charge,
on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make
available on that website, and in print, if any stockholder or other person so
requests, our code of business conduct and ethics entitled “Code of Ethics”
applicable to all employees and Directors, our “Corporate Governance
Guidelines,” and the charters for all committees of our Board of Directors,
including Audit, Human Resources and Corporate Governance and Nominating. Any
changes to our Code of Ethics or waiver of our Code of Ethics for senior
financial officers, executive officers or Directors will be posted on that
website.



History

AT&T,
formerly known as SBC Communications Inc. (SBC), was formed as one of several
regional holding companies created to hold AT&T Corp.’s (ATTC) local
telephone companies. On January 1, 1984, we were spun-off from ATTC pursuant to
an anti-trust consent decree, becoming an independent publicly traded
telecommunications services provider. At formation, we primarily operated in
five southwestern states. Our subsidiaries merged with Pacific Telesis Group in
1997, Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation in 1998 and Ameritech
Corporation in 1999, thereby expanding our wireline operations as the incumbent
local exchange carrier (ILEC) into a total of 13 states. In November 2005, one
of our subsidiaries merged with ATTC, creating one of the world’s leading
telecommunications providers. In connection with the merger, we changed the name
of our company from “SBC Communications Inc.” to “AT&T Inc.”  In
December 2006, one of our subsidiaries merged with BellSouth Corporation
(BellSouth) making us the ILEC in an additional nine states. With the BellSouth
acquisition, we thereby acquired BellSouth’s 40% economic interest in AT&T
Mobility LLC (AT&T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC, and
BellSouth’s 34% economic interest in YELLOWPAGES.COM (YPC), resulting in 100%
ownership of AT&T Mobility and YPC. Our services and products are marketed
under the AT&T brand name, including alliances such as AT&T Yahoo! and
AT&T | DIRECT TV.



Scope

We rank
among the leading providers of telecommunications services in the United States
and the world. We offer our services and products to consumers in the U.S. and
services and products to businesses and other providers of telecommunications
services worldwide.



The
services and products that we offer vary by market, and include: wireless
communications, local exchange services, long-distance services, data/broadband
and Internet services, video services, telecommunications equipment, managed
networking, wholesale services and directory advertising and publishing. We
group our operating subsidiaries as follows, corresponding to our operating
segments for financial reporting purposes:



·wireless
      subsidiaries provide both wireless voice and data communications services
      across the U.S. and, through roaming agreements, in a substantial number
      of foreign countries,

·wireline
      subsidiaries provide primarily landline voice and data communication
      services, AT&T U-VerseSMTV, high-speed broadband and voice services (U-Verse) and managed
      networking to business customers.,

·advertising
      solutions subsidiaries publish Yellow and White Pages directories and sell
      directory advertising and Internet-based advertising and local
      search.

·other
      subsidiaries provide results from Sterling Commerce, Inc. (Sterling), all
      corporate and other operations.



Our
traditional wireline local exchange subsidiaries operate in 22 states: Alabama,
Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Florida, Georgia,
Kentucky, Louisiana, Kansas, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, North
Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Wisconsin
(22-state area). Our wireline local exchange services are provided through
regulated subsidiaries which operate within authorized regions subject to
regulation by each state in which they operate and by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC). Wireless service providers are regulated by the FCC.
Additional information relating to regulation is contained under the heading
“Government Regulation” and in the Annual Report under the heading “Operating
Environment and Trends of the Business,” and is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



1AT&T
      Inc.

With the
expansion of our company through acquisitions and the resulting ownership
consolidation of AT&T Mobility, and with continuing advances in technology,
we plan to offer new services that combine our traditional wireline and wireless
services, thereby making our customers’ lives more convenient and productive and
fostering competition and further innovation in the communications and
entertainment industry. In 2010, we plan to focus on the areas discussed
below.



Wireless

AT&T
Mobility began operations in October 2000 as a joint venture between us and
BellSouth and, in 2004, acquired AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. Upon our
acquisition of BellSouth, AT&T Mobility became a wholly-owned
subsidiary.



Our
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System/ High-Speed Downlink Packet Access
third generation (3G) network technology covers most major metropolitan areas of
the U.S. This technology provides superior speeds for data and video services,
as well as operating efficiencies, using the same spectrum and infrastructure
for voice and data on an IP-based platform. Our wireless network also relies on
digital transmission technologies known as Global System for Mobile
Communication, General Packet Radio Services and Enhanced Data Rates for GSM
Evolution for data communications.  We have also announced plans to
transition our network to more advanced Long Term Evolution technology in 2011
as network equipment and handsets are expected to become widely available. We
also have continued to expand the number of locations, including airports and
cafes, where customers can access broadband internet connections using wireless
fidelity (local radio frequency commonly referred as Wi-Fi) wireless
technology.



As of
December 31, 2009, we served 85.1 million customers and were a leading provider
of mobile wireless voice and data communications services in the
U.S.  As the wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that
future wireless growth will become increasingly dependent on our ability to
offer integrated handsets and other innovative devices such as netbooks and
eReaders and innovative services that will encourage existing customers to
upgrade their services and will attract customers from other providers as well
as our ability to minimize turnover of our existing customer base (customer
churn). We intend to accomplish these goals by continuing to expand our network
coverage, improve our network quality and offer a broad array of products and
services, including exclusive devices such as Apple iPhone, Wi-Fi enabled
devices and free mobile-to-mobile calling among our wireless customers. The
effective management of customer churn is critical to our ability to maximize
revenue growth and to maintain and improve our operating margins.



Business
Customers

We expect
to continue to strengthen the reach and sophistication of our network facilities
and our ability to offer a variety of communications services, both wireless and
wireline, to large businesses and wholesale customers worldwide. We expect to
offer similar services to small- and medium-businesses and to increase the
attractiveness of our services to governmental customers. We also expect to
extend our wholesale business offerings to other service products and systems
integration services.



Data/Broadband

As the
communications industry continues to move toward internet-based technologies
that are capable of blending traditional wireline and wireless services, we plan
to offer services that take advantage of these new and more sophisticated
technologies. In particular, we intend to continue to focus on deploying our
AT&T U-versesmhigh-speed broadband and video services and on developing internet
protocol-based services that allow customers to unite their home or business
wireline services with their wireless service.



U-verse ServicesWe are
continuing to expand our deployment of our U-verse services. In December 2009,
we added our two millionth U-verse video customer, ending the year with
approximately 2,065,000 customers.  As of December 31, 2009, we passed
22.8 million living units (constructed housing units as well as platted housing
lots) and are marketing the services to almost 72 percent of those units. Our
deployment strategy is to enter each new area on a limited basis in order to
ensure that all operating and back-office systems are functioning successfully
and then expand within each area as we continue to monitor these systems. Our
rate of expansion will be slowed if we cannot obtain all required local building
permits in a timely fashion. We also continue to work with our vendors on
improving, in a timely manner, the requisite hardware and software technology.
Our deployment plans could be delayed if we do not receive required equipment
and software on schedule.





2AT&T
      Inc.



Voice over Internet
ProtocolVoIP is generally used to describe the transmission
of voice using Internet-Protocol-based technology rather than a traditional wire
and switch-based telephone network. A company using this technology often can
provide voice services at a lower cost because this technology uses bandwidth
more efficiently than a traditional network and because this technology has not
been subject to traditional telephone industry regulation. While the development
of VoIP has resulted in increased competition for our wireless and wireline
voice services, it also presents growth opportunities for us to develop new
products for our customers.



BUSINESS
OPERATIONS



OPERATING
SEGMENTS

Our
segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services
over various technology platforms and are managed accordingly. We analyze our
various operating segments based on segment income before income taxes,
reviewing operating revenues, operating expenses (depreciation and
non-depreciation) and equity income for each segment. We make our capital
allocations decisions primarily based on the network (wireless or wireline)
providing services. Interest expense and other income (expense) – net, are
managed only on a total company basis and are, accordingly, reflected only in
consolidated results. Therefore, these items are not included in the calculation
of each segment’s percentage of our total segment income. We have four
reportable segments:  (1) Wireless; (2) Wireline;
(3) Advertising Solutions; and (4) Other.



Additional
information about our segments, including financial information, is included
under the heading “Segment Results” on pages 33 through 41 and in Note 4 of the
Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General
Instruction G(2).



WIRELESS

Wireless
consists of our subsidiary, AT&T Mobility, which operates as a wireless
provider to both business and consumer customers. Our Wireless segment provided
approximately 43% of 2009 total segment operating revenues and 60% of our 2009
total segment income. At December 31, 2009, we had more than 85 million wireless
subscribers.



Services
and Products

We offer
a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice communications
services in a variety of pricing plans, including postpaid and prepaid service
plans. Our voice offerings are tailored to meet the communications needs of
targeted customer segments, including youth, family, active professionals, small
businesses, government and major national corporate accounts.



Service –Our voice service is
generally offered on a contract basis for one- or two-year periods, referred to
as postpaid. Under the terms of these contracts, service is billed and provided
on a monthly basis according to the applicable rate plan chosen. Our wireless
services include basic local wireless communications service, long-distance
service and roaming services. Roaming services enable our subscribers to utilize
other carriers’ networks when they are “roaming” outside our network footprint.
We also charge fees to other carriers for providing roaming services to their
customers when their customers utilize our network. Additionally, we offer
prepaid service to meet the demands of distinct consumer segments, such as the
youth market, families and small business customers, who prefer to control usage
or pay in advance.



Wireless
data revenues continue to be a growing area of our business, representing an
increasing share of our overall subscriber revenue. We are experiencing solid
growth from both consumer and enterprise wireless data services, as an
increasing number of our subscribers have upgraded their handsets to more
advanced integrated devices, including Apple iPhone. We are also seeing rapid
growth in demand for new wireless devices such as notebooks, eReaders, direction
and navigation aids and monitoring devices. We continue to upgrade our network
and coordinate with equipment manufacturers and applications developers in order
to further capitalize on the continued growth in the demand for wireless data
services. At December 31, 2009, we were a leading provider of wireless data in
the U.S. wireless industry based on subscribers.

3AT&T
      Inc.

Equipment –We sell a wide
variety of handsets, wirelessly enabled computers (i.e., notebooks and netbooks)
and personal computer wireless data cards manufactured by various suppliers for
use with our voice and data services.  We sell through our own
company-owned stores or through agents or third-party retail stores.  We
also sell accessories, such as carrying cases, hands-free devices, batteries,
battery chargers and other items, to consumers, as well as to agents and other
third-party distributors for resale. Like other wireless service providers, we
often provide postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to
initiate or upgrade service.  Our subscriber base also includes emerging
devices (e.g., eReaders and mobile navigation devices) purchased by consumers
from third-party suppliers which buy data access supported by our network;
purchasers of these devices are included in our reseller base.



Additional
information on our Wireless segment is contained in the Annual Report in the
“Operating Environment Overview” section under the heading “Expected Growth
Areas,” “Wireless” beginning on page 42 and is incorporated herein by reference
pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



WIRELINE

Our
Wireline subsidiaries provide both retail and wholesale communication services
domestically and internationally. Our Wireline segment provided approximately
52% of 2009 segment operating revenues and 36% of our 2009 total segment income.
We divide our wireline services into three product-based categories: voice, data
and other.  Revenues from our traditional voice services have been
declining as customers have been switching to wireless, cable and other
internet-based providers. In addition, the continuing economic recession has
caused wireline customers to terminate their residential or business phone
service as individuals have lost jobs or otherwise combined households and
businesses have closed or reduced operations. We have responded by offering
packages of combined voice and data services, including broadband and video, and
intend to continue this strategy during 2010.



Services
and Products



Voice– Voice includes
traditional local and long-distance service provided to retail customers and
wholesale access to our network and individual network elements provided to
competitors. At December 31, 2009, our wireline subsidiaries served
approximately 26 million retail consumer access lines, 20 million retail
business access lines and 3 million wholesale access lines. We also have a
number of integrated voice and data services, such as integrated network
connections, that provide customers the ability to integrate access for their
voice and data services, the data component of which is included in the data
category. Additionally, voice revenues do not include any of our VoIP revenues,
which are included in data revenues.



Long
distance consists of traditional long distance and international long distance
for customers that select us as their primary long-distance carrier. Long
distance also includes services provided by calling card, 1-800 services and
conference calling. These services are used in a wide variety of business
applications, including sales, reservation centers or customer service centers.
We also provide wholesale switched access service to other service
providers.



Voice
also includes calling features, fees to maintain wire located inside customer
premises and other miscellaneous voice products.Calling features are
enhanced telephone services available to retail customers such as Caller ID,
Call Waiting and voice mail. These calling features services are generally more
profitable than basic local phone service.



Data -Data includes
traditional products, such as switched and dedicated transport, Internet access
and network integration, and data equipment sales, and U-verse services.
Additionally, data products include high-speed connections such as private
lines, packet, dedicated Internet and enterprise networking services, as well as
products such as DSL/broadband, dial-up Internet access and Wi-Fi (local radio
frequency commonly known as wireless fidelity). We also provide businesses voice
applications over IP-based networks (i.e., Enhanced Virtual Private Networks or
“EVPN”). Over the past several years, we have built out our new multi-protocol
label switching/asynchronous transfer mode, or MPLS/ATM network, to supplement,
and eventually replace, our other extensive global data networks. These products
allow us to provide highly complex global data networks.



Private
Line uses high-capacity digital circuits to transmit from point-to-point in
multiple configurations and allows customers to create internal data networks
and to access external data networks.

4AT&T
      Inc.

Switched
Transport services transmit data using switching equipment to transfer the data
between multiple lines before reaching its destination. Dedicated Transport
services use a single direct line to transmit data between destinations. DSL is
a digital modem technology that converts existing twisted-pair telephone lines
into access paths for multimedia and high-speed data communications to the
Internet or private networks. DSL allows customers to simultaneously make a
phone call and access information via the Internet or an office local area
network. Digital Services use dedicated digital circuits to transmit digital
data at various high rates of speed.



Network
integration services include installation of business data systems, local area
networking and other data networking offerings. Internet access services include
a wide range of products for residences and businesses, Internet services
offered include basic dial-up access service, dedicated access, web hosting,
e-mail and high-speed access services. Our managed web-hosting services for
businesses provide network, server and security infrastructure as well as
built-in data storage and include application performance management, database
management, hardware and operating system management. Our hosting services also
provide customers with secure access to detailed reporting information about
their infrastructure and applications.



Packet
services consist of data networks using packet switching and transmission
technologies, including traditional circuit-based, and IP connectivity services.
Packet services enable customers to transmit large volumes of data economically
and securely and are used for local area network interconnection, remote site,
point of sale and branch office communications. High-speed packet services are
used extensively by enterprise (large business) customers.



Dedicated
Internet services are designed to meet the needs of all types of commercial and
governmental enterprises, including small and medium sized businesses. Our
managed Internet services provide customers with dedicated high-speed access to
the Internet managed by us.



Enterprise
networking services provide comprehensive support from network design,
implementation and installation to ongoing network operations and management for
networks of varying scales, including local area networks, wide area networks,
and virtual private networks. These services include applications such as
e-mail, order entry systems, employee directories, human resource transactions
and other database applications.



We also
provide local, interstate and international wholesale networking capacity to
other service providers. We offer a combination of high-volume transmission
capacity and conventional dedicated line services on a regional, national and
international basis to wireless carriers, interexchange carriers, Internet
service providers (ISPs) and facility-based and switchless resellers. Our
wholesale customers are primarily large ISPs, wireless carriers, competitive
local exchange carriers (CLECs), regional phone companies, interexchange
carriers, cable companies and systems integrators. We also have sold dedicated
network capacity through indefeasible rights-of-use agreements under which
capacity is furnished for contract terms as long as 25 years.



Other -Other includes
application management, security service, integration services, customer
premises equipment, outsourcing, government-related services, and satellite
video services. Security services include business continuity and disaster
recovery services as well as premise and network based security
products.



Customer
premises equipment and other equipment sales range from single-line and cordless
telephones to sophisticated digital PBX systems. PBX is a private telephone
switching system, typically used by businesses and usually located on a
customer’s premises, which provides intra-premise telephone services as well as
access to our network.



ADVERTISING
SOLUTIONS

Advertising
Solutions includes our directory operations, which publish Yellow and White
Pages directories and sell directory advertising and Internet-based advertising
and local search. The Advertising Solutions segment provided approximately 4% of
total segment operating revenues and 6% of our 2009 total segment income. This
segment sells advertising services throughout the United States, with our print
directory operations primarily covering our 22-state area.



OTHER

Our Other
segment includes operations from Sterling, our business integration software and
services subsidiary, operator services, corporate and other operations. The
Other segment provided approximately 1% of total segment operating revenues and
less than 1% of our 2009 total segment income.  We also include in
this segment the equity income (loss) from our investments in Telmex, America
Movil and Telmex Internacional. Sterling provides “multi-enterprise
collaboration” services to businesses in various industries, including retail,
financial services, manufacturing, healthcare and telecom. In recent years,
Sterling has completed a number of acquisitions in order to provide end-to-end
order fulfillment for customers.

5AT&T
      Inc.



MAJOR
CLASSES OF SERVICE



The
following table sets forth the percentage of total consolidated reported
operating revenues by any class of service that accounted for 10% or more of our
consolidated total operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal
years:



Percentage
      of TotalConsolidated
      Operating Revenues200920082007

Wireless
      SegmentWireless
      service40%36%33%Wireline
      SegmentVoice27%31%35%Data22%20%20%







GOVERNMENT
REGULATION



Wireless
communications providers must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications
services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and
must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as
adopted by the FCC. Wireless licenses are issued for a fixed time period,
typically ten years, and we must seek renewal of these
licenses.  While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to
operating companies such as us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license
for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public
interest. Additionally, while wireless communications providers’ prices and
service offerings are generally not subject to regulation, the federal
government and an increasing number of states are considering new regulations
and legislation relating to various aspects of wireless services.



Our
wireline subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state commissions which have
the power to regulate intrastate rates and services, including local,
long-distance and network access services. These subsidiaries are also subject
to the jurisdiction of the FCC with respect to interstate and international
rates and services, including interstate access charges. Access charges are
designed to compensate our wireline subsidiaries for the use of their networks
by other carriers.



Our
subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. are subject to the jurisdiction of
national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is
provided. Regulation is generally limited to operational licensing authority for
the provision of enterprise services.



Additional
information relating to regulation of our subsidiaries is contained in the
Annual Report under the heading “Operating Environment Overview” beginning on
page 41 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2).



IMPORTANCE,
DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES



6AT&T
      Inc.

MAJOR
CUSTOMER



No
customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 or
2007.



COMPETITION



Information
relating to competition in each of our operating segments is contained in the
Annual Report under the heading “Competition” beginning on page 44, and is
incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction
G(2).



RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT



The
majority of our research activities are related to our wireline segment,
performed at our subsidiary AT&T Labs. AT&T Labs’ scientists and
engineers conduct research in a variety of areas, including IP; advanced network
design and architecture; network operations support systems; data mining
technologies and advanced speech technologies. The majority of the development
activities are performed by AT&T Services. The developers within AT&T
Services work with our business units and AT&T Labs to create new services
and invent tools and systems to manage secure and reliable networks for us and
our customers. We also have a research agreement with Telcordia Technologies,
formerly Bell Communications Research, Inc. Research and development expenses
were $986 in 2009, $832 in 2008 and $985 million in 2007.



EMPLOYEES





As of
January 31, 2010, we employed approximately 281,000 persons. Approximately
58 percent of our employees are represented by the Communications Workers of
America (CWA), the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) or
other unions. Contracts covering approximately 120,000 collectively-bargained
wireline employees expired  during 2009.   As of
January 31, 2010, the Company and approximately 86,000 employees, covered by
these expired collectively-bargained wireline contracts have ratified new labor
agreements. In the absence of an effective contract, the union is entitled to
call a work stoppage.



For
approximately 60,000 employees covered by these ratified agreements, the
agreements provide for a three-year term and, for the vast majority of those
covered employees, a 3 percent wage increase in years one and two, a wage
increase in year three of 2.75 percent, and pension band increases of 2 percent
for each year of the agreement. For both wage and pension band increases, there
is potential cost-of-living increase based on the consumer price index for the
third year. These agreements also provide for continued health care coverage
with reasonable cost sharing.



For the
remaining approximately 26,000 employees covered by these ratified agreements,
the agreement provides for a four-year term. The provisions of the tentative
agreement are substantially similar to the provisions of the ratified agreements
discussed above, with a wage increase in year four of 2.75 percent and a
potential cost-of-living increase in year four instead of in year
three.



On
February 8, 2010, the Company and the CWA announced a tentative agreement
covering approximately 30,000 core wireline employees in the nine-state former
BellSouth region, subject to ratification by those covered
employees.  The tentative agreement provides for a three-year term
and, for the vast majority of those covered employees, a 3 percent wage increase
in years one and two, a wage increase in year three of 2.75 percent, and pension
band increases of 2 percent for each year of the agreement. These agreements
also provide for continued health care coverage with reasonable cost
sharing.



7AT&T
      Inc.

