ITEM 1. BUSINESS



GENERAL



AT&T Inc. ("AT&T," "we" or the "Company") is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive offices at 208 S. Akard St., Dallas, Texas, 75202 (telephone number 210-821-4105). We maintain an Internet website at www.att.com. (This website address is for information only and is not intended to be an active link or to incorporate any website information into this document.) We make available, free of charge, on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on that website, and in print, if any stockholder or other person so requests, our "Code of Ethics" applicable to all employees and Directors, our "Corporate Governance Guidelines," and the charters for all committees of our Board of Directors, including Audit, Human Resources and Corporate Governance and Nominating. Any changes to our Code of Ethics or waiver of our Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, executive officers or Directors will be posted on that website.



History



Scope

We are a leading provider of communications and digital entertainment services in the United States and the world. We offer our services and products to consumers in the U.S., Mexico and Latin America and to businesses and other providers of telecommunications services worldwide. We also own and operate three regional sports networks, and retain non-controlling interests in another regional sports network and a network dedicated to game-related programming as well as Internet interactive game playing.



The services and products that we offer vary by market, and include: wireless communications, data/broadband and Internet services, digital video services, local and long-distance telephone services, telecommunications equipment, managed networking, and wholesale services. In conjunction with our July 24, 2015 acquisition of DIRECTV, we re-organized our operating subsidiaries as follows, corresponding to our operating segments for financial reporting purposes:

·Business Solutions business units provide services to business, governmental and wholesale customers and individual subscribers who purchase wireless services through employer-sponsored plans. We provide advanced IP-based services including Virtual Private Networks (VPN), Ethernet-related products and broadband, collectively referred to as strategic business services, as well as traditional data and voice products. We utilize our wireless and wired network and are marketed to provide a complete communications solution to our business customers.

·Entertainment Group business units provide video, internet and voice communication services to residential customers located in the U.S. or in U.S. territories. We utilize our copper and IP-based (referred to as "wired" or "wireline") network and/or our satellite technology.

·Consumer Mobility business units provide nationwide wireless service to consumers, and wireless wholesale and resale subscribers located in the U.S. or in U.S. territories. We utilize our U.S. wireless network to provide voice and data services, including high speed internet, video entertainment and home monitoring services.






AT&T Inc.



·International business units provide entertainment services in Latin America and wireless services in Mexico. Video entertainment services are provided to primarily residential customers using satellite technology. We utilize our regional and national networks in Mexico to provide consumer and business customers with wireless data and voice communication services.



Our Corporate and Other information includes unallocated corporate expenses, operations that are no longer integral to our operations or which we no longer actively market, our portion of results from our equity investments and impacts from corporate-wide decisions for which the individual operating segments are not being evaluated.



With continuing advances in technology and in response to changing demands from our customers, in recent years we have focused on providing broadband, video and voice services. In 2015, we purchased DIRECTV toexpand our involvement in the digital entertainment space. The nationwide reach of DIRECTV and superior content-owner relationships significantly improves the economics and expands the geographic reach of our pre-existing AT&T U-verse®video service. We also purchased wireless operations in Mexico, moving quickly to build a world-class mobile business in a country with a strong economic outlook, a growing middle class and close trade, cultural and geographic ties to the U.S.  These acquisitions and our continued investment in a premier network experience make our customers' lives more convenient and productive and foster competition and further innovation in the communications and entertainment industry. In 2016, we plan to focus on the areas discussed below.



Wireless

AT&T Mobility began operations in October 2000 as a joint venture between us and BellSouth and, in 2004, acquired AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. Upon our acquisition of BellSouth in 2006, AT&T Mobility became a wholly-owned subsidiary.



In the United States, we now cover all major metropolitan areas and more than 300 million people with our LTE technology. We also provide 4G coverage using another technology (HSPA+), and when combined with our upgraded backhaul network, we are able to enhance our network capabilities and provide superior mobile broadband speeds for data and video services. Our wireless network also relies on other GSM digital transmission technologies for 3G and 2G data communications. As of December 31, 2015, we served more than 128 million subscribers.



As the wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth will increasingly depend on our ability to offer innovative video and data services and a wireless network that has sufficient spectrum and capacity to support these innovations. We continue to face significant spectrum and capacity constraints on our wireless network in certain markets. We expect such constraints to increase and expand to additional markets in the coming years. While we are continuing to invest significant capital in expanding our network capacity, our capacity constraints could affect the quality of existing voice and data services and our ability to launch new, advanced wireless broadband services, unless we are able to obtain more spectrum. Any long-term spectrum solution will require that the FCC make additional spectrum available to the wireless industry to meet the expanding needs of our subscribers. We will continue to attempt to address spectrum and capacity constraints on a market-by-market basis.To that end, we submitted winning bids for 251 Advanced Wireless Service (AWS) spectrum licenses for a near-nationwide contiguous block of high-quality AWS spectrum in the AWS-3 Auction (FCC Auction 97).The FCC announced that the 600 MHz Auction (Auction 1000) is scheduled to begin on March 29, 2016.



Also as part of our efforts to improve our network performance and help address the need for additional spectrum capacity, we are redeploying spectrum currently used for basic 2G services to support more advanced mobile Internet services on our 3G and 4G networks. We are managing this process consistent with previous network upgrades and are transitioning customers on a market-by-market basis from 2G networks to our more advanced 3G and 4G networks. We expect to fully discontinue service on our 2G networks by approximately January 1, 2017. As of December 31, 2015, about 1 percent of AT&T's postpaid subscribers used handsets only capable of using 2G services. We do not expect this transition to have a material impact on our operating results.



Business Solutions

We expect to continue to strengthen the reach and sophistication of our network facilities and our ability to offer a variety of communications services, both fixed and mobile, to businesses, governmental and wholesale customers worldwide.



Internet Protocol Technology

IP is generally used to describe the transmission of data, which can include voice (called voice over IP or VoIP), using a software-based technology rather than a traditional wire and physical switch-based telephone network. A company using this technology can provide voice and data services at a lower cost because this technology uses bandwidth more efficiently than a traditional network. Using this technology also presents growth opportunities especially in providing data and video services to both fixed locations and mobile devices. To take advantage of both these growth and cost-savings opportunities, we have encouraged the migration of wireline customers in our current 21-state ILEC service area to services using IP, and expect to continue this transition through at least 2020.






AT&T Inc.



Integration of Data/Broadband and Entertainment Services

As the communications industry continues to move toward Internet-based technologies that are capable of blending traditional wireline and wireless services, we plan to offer services that take advantage of these new and more sophisticated technologies. In particular, we intend to continue to focus on expanding our high-speed Internet and video offerings and on developing IP-based services that allow customers to unite their home or business fixed services with their mobile service. During 2016, we will continue to develop and provide unique integrated video, mobileand broadband solutions.



International

We believe that the wireless model in the U.S., with exploding demand for mobile Internet service and the associated economic benefits, will be repeated around the world as companies invest in high-speed mobile networks. Due in part to recent changes in the legal and regulatory framework in Mexico, during 2015 we invested in Mexican wireless operations to establish a unique, seamless, cross-border North American wireless network covering 355 million people and businesses in the U.S. and Mexico. During 2016, we will continue to build a world-class mobile business and network in Mexico.






AT&T Inc.

BUSINESS OPERATIONS



OPERATING SEGMENTS

Our segments are strategic business units that offer products and services to different customer segments over various technology platforms and/or in different geographies that are managed accordingly. We analyze our operating segments based on segment contribution, which consists of operating income, excluding acquisition-related costs and other significant items, and equity in net income of affiliate for investments managed within each operating segment. We have four reportable segments: (1) Business Solutions, (2) Entertainment Group, (3) Consumer Mobility and (4) International.



Additional information about our segments, including financial information, is included under the heading "Segment Results" on pages 13 through 19 and in Note 4 of the Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



BUSINESS SOLUTIONS

Our Business Solutions segment provides services to business, governmental and wholesale customers and individual subscribers who purchase wireless services through employer-sponsored plans. Services in this segment are marketed to provide a complete communications solution to customers. The Business Solutions segment provided approximately 49% of 2015 segment operating revenues and 59% of our 2015 total segment contribution. We divide Business Solutions revenue into the following categories: wireless service, fixed strategic services, legacy voice and data services, other services and wireless equipment.



Wireless Service –We offer a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice and data communications services in a variety of pricing plans to approximately 73.7 million Business Solutions wireless subscribers. Our offerings are tailored to meet the communications needs of targeted customer categories, including youth, family, professionals, small businesses, government and business.We classify our subscribers as either postpaid, connected device or reseller.



SM



During 2015, we offered postpaid wireless service under two alternatives: (1) for subscribers purchasing a device on installments under the AT&T Next program or for those that bring their own device, no annual service contract is signed but the device must be paid in full if the customer chooses to drop their service from AT&T; and (2) for subscribers who purchase their handset under the traditional device subsidy model, service contracts are for two year periods with an increasing portion of these subscribers receiving unlimited voice and texting services in conjunction with data services purchased through our Mobile Share plans. In late December 2015, we announced an end to offering subsidized handsets for most of our customers. Our wireless services include data and voice services, including long-distance service and roaming services. Roaming services enable our subscribers to utilize other carriers' networks when they are "roaming" outside our network footprint.



Fixed Strategic Services –Fixed strategic services (previously known as strategic business services) are our most advanced business solutions. Our offerings use high-capacity digital circuits, and allow customers to create internal data networks and to access external data networks. Switched Transport services transmit data using switching equipment to transfer the data between multiple lines before reaching its destination. Dedicated transport services use a single direct line to transmit data between destinations.








AT&T Inc.



We provide businesses voice applications over IP-based networks (i.e., Enhanced Virtual Private Networks or "EVPN"). Over the past several years, we have built out our new IP/MPLS (Internet Protocol/MultiProtocol Label Switching) network, to supplement our IP-based product set, and eventually replace our older circuit-based networks and services. These products allow us to provide highly complex global data networks. Additional IP-based services include Internet access and network integration, dedicated Internet and enterprise networking services. These advanced IP-based services continued to grow during 2015 as customers shift from our older circuit-based services. We expect this trend to continue in 2016 as customers continue to use more services based on Internet access and demand ever-increasing transmission speeds, especially for video. To align with these trends, we continue to reconfigure our wireline network to take advantage of the latest technologies and services.



Network integration services include installation of business data systems, local area networking and other data networking offerings. Internet access services include a wide range of products including access service, dedicated access, web hosting, managed services, e-mail and high-speed access services. Our managed web-hosting services for businesses provide network, server and security infrastructure as well as built-in data storage and include application performance management, database management, hardware and operating system management. Our hosting services also provide customers with secure access to detailed reporting information about their infrastructure and applications. These services are rapidly evolving to a cloud delivery model, providing customers with on-demand data storage and computing capabilities from a centrally-managed network (referred to as the cloud) accessible from a variety of different devices and locations.



Packet services consist of data networks using packet switching and transmission technologies, including traditional circuit-based and IP connectivity services. Packet services enable customers to transmit large volumes of data economically and securely and are used for local area network (LAN) interconnection and inter-office communications. High-speed packet services are used extensively by enterprise (large business) customers.



Enterprise networking services provide comprehensive support from network design, implementation and installation to ongoing network operations and management for networks of varying scales, including LANs and virtual private networks. These services include applications such as e-mail, order entry systems, employee directories, human resource transactions and other database applications. We also offer Wi-Fi service.



Legacy Voice and Data Services– Voice services include traditional local and long-distance service provided to business and governmental customers, and wholesale access to our network and individual network elements provided to competitors. We also provide wholesale switched access service to other service providers. Our circuit-based, traditional data products include switched and dedicated transport services that allow business customers to transmit data at high speeds, as well as DSL Internet access.



Revenues from our traditional voice services continue to decline as customers switch to wireless or VoIP services provided by either us, cable or other Internet-based providers. In addition, the continuing slow economic growth and business starts have led some wireline customers to terminate their business phone service. We have responded by offering packages of combined voice and data services, including broadband and video, and intend to continue this strategy during 2016.



Other Services– Other service revenues include project-based revenue, which is nonrecurring in nature, as well as revenues from other managed services, outsourcing, government professional service and equipment.



We provide intrastate, interstate and international wholesale networking capacity to other service providers. We offer a combination of high-volume transmission capacity and conventional dedicated line services on a regional, national and international basis to our wholesale customers, which are primarily wireless carriers, interexchange carriers, Internet service providers (ISPs) and facility-based and switchless resellers.



Wireless Equipment–We sell a wide variety of handsets, wirelessly enabled computers (e.g., tablets and notebooks) and personal computer wireless data cards manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents or third-party retail stores. Like other wireless service providers, we have historically provided postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to initiate, renew or upgrade service. To reduce these subsidies and provide our customers with more service options, in 2013, we launched our AT&T Next program, which allows customers to buy handsets on an installment basis in exchange for discounted service charges, along with other benefits, and we also offer new customers the opportunity to bring their own device. Due to the popularity of this program, in late December 2015, we announced that we would no longer offer subsidized equipment to the majority of customers. Accordingly, we expect equipment revenues to continue to increase in 2016 along with a proportionate decline in service revenues. We also sell accessories, such as carrying cases, hands-free devices, and other items, to consumers, as well as to agents and third-party distributors for resale.








AT&T Inc.



Additional information on our Business Solutions segment is contained in the Annual Report in the "Operating Environment Overview" section beginning on page 22 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



ENTERTAINMENT GROUP

Our Entertainment Group segment provides video, Internet and voice communication services to residential customers in the U.S. and U.S. territories. In July 2015, we acquired DIRECTV, a leading provider of digital television entertainment engaged in acquiring, promoting, selling and distributing digital entertainment programming primarily via satellite to subscribers. The Entertainment Group segment provided approximately 24% of 2015 segment operating revenues and 7% of our 2015 total segment contribution. We divide this segment's revenue into the following categories: video entertainment, high-speed Internet, legacy voice and data services, and equipment and other.



Video Entertainment –We offer video entertainment services using satellite and IP-based technologies. Our offerings are structured to provide customers with the best video experience both inside and outside of the home by offering subscribers attractive programming, technology and customer service. Due to the rising cost of programming as well as higher costs to acquire new subscribers in an increasingly competitive industry, it is even more important to distinguish and elevate our video entertainment experience for our new and existing customers.



We provide approximately 25.4 million subscribers with access to hundreds of channels of digital-quality video entertainment and audio programming. For our satellite subscribers, we provide video-on-demand (VOD) by "pushing" top-rated movies onto customers' digital video recorders (DVRs) for instant viewing, as well as via broadband to our subscribers who have connected their set-top receiver to their broadband service. In addition, our video entertainment subscribers have the ability to use the Internet and/or our mobile applications for smartphones and tablets to view authorized content, search program listings and schedule DVR recordings.



We believe it is critical that we continue to extend our brand leadership as the premium pay-TV provider in the marketplace by providing the best video experience both at home and on mobile devices. We believe that our flexible platform that uses a combination of satellite, IP-based and cloud infrastructure with a broadband and wireless connection is the most efficient way to transport content to subscribers when and where they want it. Through this integrated approach, we're able to optimize the use of storage in the home as well as in the cloud, while also providing a seamless service for consumers across screens and locations.



High-Speed Internet –We offer broadband and Internet services to 12.4 million residential subscribers. Our IP-based technology provides more advanced high-speed Internet services.



Legacy Voice and Data Services– Voice services include traditional local and long-distance service provided to residential customers. Our circuit-based, traditional data products include DSL Internet access.



Revenues from our traditional voice services continue to decline as customers switch to wireless or VoIP services provided by either us, cable or other Internet-based providers. We have responded by offering packages of combined voice and data services, including broadband, video and wireless, and intend to continue this strategy during 2016.



Equipment and Other– Other service revenues include revenue from voice services provided over IP-based technology (VoIP) as well as revenues associated with technical support and other customer service functions and equipment.



Additional information on our Entertainment Group segment is contained in the Annual Report in the "Operating Environment Overview" section beginning on page 22 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).








AT&T Inc.

CONSUMER MOBILITY

This segment consists of AT&T Mobility operations that provide wireless services to consumers, and wireless wholesale and resale subscribers located in the U.S. or U.S. territories. Wireless services include data and voice services, including long-distance service and roaming services.Roaming services enable our subscribers to utilize other carriers' networks when they are "roaming" outside our network footprint.The Consumer Mobility segment provided approximately 24% of 2015 total segment operating revenues and 35% of our 2015 total segment contribution. We classify our subscribers as either postpaid, prepaid, connected device or reseller. At December 31, 2015, we served nearly 55.0 million Consumer Mobility subscribers, including 28.8 million postpaid, 11.5 million prepaid, 13.7 million reseller and 929,000 connected devices. We divide our revenue into the following categories: postpaid wireless, prepaid wireless, other services, and equipment.



Postpaid Wireless–We offer a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice and data communications services in a variety of pricing plans. Wireless data services continue to be a growing area of Consumer Mobility's business, representing an increasing share of overall subscriber revenue. Subscribers continue to upgrade their handsets to more advanced integrated devices, contributing to growth from wireless data services. We offer Mobile Share plans which allow sharing of voice, text and data across multiple devices, AT&T Next, a program allowing subscribers to more frequently upgrade handsets using an installment payment plan and in January 2015 began offering Rollover Data on Mobile Share plans, which allows unused shareable plan data to be rolled over and used within the next month. Such offerings are intended to encourage existing subscribers to upgrade their current services and/or add connected devices, attract subscribers from other providers, and minimize subscriber churn. Participation in these plans continues to increase. Customers in our "connected device" category (e.g.,users of session-based tablets, monitoring devices and automobile systems) purchase those devices from third-party suppliers that buy data access supported by our network. We continue to upgrade our network and coordinate with equipment manufacturers and applications developers in order to further capitalize on the continued growth in the demand for wireless data services.



During 2015, we offered postpaid wireless service under two alternatives: (1) for subscribers purchasing a device on installments under the AT&T Next program or for those that bring their own device, no annual service contract is signed but the device must be paid in full if the customer chooses to drop their service from AT&T; and (2) for subscribers who purchase their equipment under the traditional device subsidy model, service contracts are for two year periods with an increasing portion of these subscribers receiving unlimited voice and texting services in conjunction with data services purchased through our Mobile Share plans. Market maturity, competition and the migration of subscribers to employer plans offered by our Business Solutions segment have slowed the growth in subscribers.



Prepaid Wireless– We offer nationwide wireless voice and data communications to certain customers who prefer to pay in advance. Services are offered under the Cricket or Go Phone brands and are typically monthly prepaid services.



Other Service –Other services includes consulting, revenues from advertising, application and co-location services as well as fees we charge to other carriers for providing roaming services to their customers when their customers utilize our network.



Equipment–We sell a wide variety of handsets, wirelessly enabled computers (e.g., tablets and notebooks) and personal computer wireless data cards manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents or third-party retail stores. Like other wireless service providers, we have historically provided postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to initiate, renew or upgrade service. To reduce these subsidies and provide our customers with more service options, in 2014, we launched our AT&T Next program, which allows customers to buy handsets on an installment basis in exchange for discounted service charges, along with other benefits, and we also offer new customers the opportunity to bring their own device. Due to the popularity of this program, in late December 2015, we announced that we would no longer offer subsidized equipment. Accordingly, we expect equipment revenues to continue to increase in 2016 along with a proportionate decline in service revenues. We also sell accessories, such as carrying cases, hands-free devices, and other items, to consumers, as well as to agents and third-party distributors for resale.



Additional information on our Consumer Mobility segment is contained in the Annual Report in the "Operating Environment Overview" section beginning on page 22 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).






AT&T Inc.

INTERNATIONAL

Our International segment business units provide video entertainment services to residential customers in Latin America and wireless data and voice communication services to consumer and business customers in Mexico. The International segment provided approximately 3% of 2015 segment operating revenues. We divide our revenue into the following categories: video entertainment, wireless, and equipment.



Video Entertainment– We are a leading provider of digital television services throughout Latin America, providing a wide selection of local and international digital-quality video entertainment and audio programming under the DIRECTV and SKY brands. We believe we provide one of the most extensive collections of programming available in the Latin America pay television market, including HD sports video content and the most innovative interactive technology across the region. In addition, we have the unique ability to sell superior offerings of our differentiated products and services on a continent-wide basis with an operational cost structure that we believe to be lower than that of our competition.



We have approximately 12.5 million video subscribers in Latin America. Our operations are comprised of: PanAmericana, which provides services in Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela and certain other countries in the region, and SKY Brasil Servicos Ltda., or SKY Brasil, which is a 93% owned subsidiary. Our Latin American operations also include our 41% equity method investment in Innova, S. de R.L. de C.V., or SKY Mexico, which we include in our International segment. As of December 31, 2015, PanAmericana had approximately 7.1 million subscribers, SKY Brasil had approximately 5.4 million subscribers.



To subscribe to the DIRECTV or SKY service, customers sign up for our video service directly through us or our regional retailers, or independent satellite television retailers or dealers. We offer postpaid products and services to customers who meet our standard requirements. For these customers, dealers or one of our home service providers install the receiving equipment. In addition, we offer prepaid service for customers that desire payment and commitment flexibility. These customers may purchase a standard-definition receiver and antenna and pre-pay their DIRECTV service through one or more means, such as the purchase of a rechargeable card that they can acquire at a retailer or local kiosk. The video service will automatically disconnect once the balance of the customer's pre-payment expires.



In addition to traditional pay-television services, in Latin America we continue to focus on selectively pursuing opportunities to acquire wireless spectrum and, where we have acquired spectrum, to build out a technologically robust and profitable fixed wireless broadband service in areas where we have an existing subscriber base and there are weak competitive wireline offerings or access to broadband is limited. We currently have spectrum holdings that cover approximately 50 million households across Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela and Peru.



Wireless– We offer postpaid and prepaid wireless services to approximately 8.7 million subscribers under the AT&T, Iusacell, Unefon and Nextel Mexico brands. Postpaid services allow (1) for subscribers purchasing a device on installments or for those that bring their own device, no annual service contract is signed but the device must be paid in full if the customer chooses to drop their service from AT&T; and (2) for subscribers who purchase their equipment under the traditional device subsidy model, service contracts are for periods up to 24 months. All plans offer no roaming charges to the U.S. or Canada, unlimited minutes and messages to the extended AT&T community and unlimited social networking. We also offer prepaid services to certain customers who prefer to pay in advance.



Equipment–We sell a wide variety of handsets, including smartphones manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents or third-party retail stores.



Additional information on our International segment is contained in the Annual Report in the "Operating Environment Overview" section beginning on page 22 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).








AT&T Inc.

MAJOR CLASSES OF SERVICE



The following table sets forth the percentage of total consolidated reported operating revenues by any class of service that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated total operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal years:



Percentage of TotalConsolidated Operating Revenues201520142013Business Solutions SegmentWireless service21%23%23%Legacy voice and data services121517Equipment1664Entertainment Group SegmentVideo entertainment1455Legacy voice and data services468Equipment2---Consumer Mobility SegmentWireless service3202325Equipment443International SegmentWireless service1--Video entertainment1--Equipment---

1Includes customer premises equipment of $929 million in 2015, $979 million in 2014, and $1,046 million in 2013 that is reported as other service and equipment revenues in our Business Solutions segment.

2Includes customer premises equipment of $22 million in 2015, $40 million in 2014, and $66 million in 2013 that is reported as other service and equipment revenues in our Entertainment Group segment.

3Includes the combined service revenues for postpaid and prepaid services.



Additional information on our geographical distribution of revenues is contained in the Annual Report in the "Segment Geography" section beginning on page 55 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Wireless communications providers must be licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC. The FCC's rules have a direct impact on whether the wireless industry has sufficient spectrum available to support the high quality, innovative services our customers demand. Wireless licenses are issued for a fixed time period, typically ten years, and we must seek renewal of these licenses. While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to operating companies such as us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public interest. Additionally, while wireless communications providers' prices and service offerings are generally not subject to regulation, the federal government and various states are considering new regulations and legislation relating to various aspects of wireless services.



The Communications Act of 1934 and other related acts give the FCC broad authority to regulate the U.S. operations of our satellite services, which are licensed by the FCC. In addition, states representing a majority of our local service access lines have adopted legislation that enables us to provide IP-based video service through a single statewide or state-approved franchise (as opposed to the need to acquire hundreds or even thousands of municipal-approved franchises) to offer competitive video services. We also are supporting efforts to update and improve regulatory treatment for retail services. Regulatory reform and passage of legislation is uncertain and depends on many factors.



In February 2015, the FCC released an order in response to the D.C. Circuit's January 2014 decision adopting new rules, and reclassifying both fixed and mobile consumer broadband Internet access services as telecommunications services, subject to comprehensive regulation under the Telecommunications Act of 1996. The FCC's decision significantly expands the FCC's existing authority to regulate the provision of fixed and mobile broadband Internet access services. The FCC also asserted jurisdiction over Internet interconnection arrangements, which until now have been unregulated. These actions could have an adverse impact on our fixed and mobile broadband services and operating results. AT&T and several other parties, including US Telecom and CTIA trade groups, have appealed the FCC's order.








AT&T Inc.



Our ILEC subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state governments, which have the power to regulate intrastate rates and services, including local, long-distance and network access services, provided such state regulation is consistent with federal law. Some states have eliminated or reduced regulations on our retail offerings. These subsidiaries are also subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC with respect to intercarrier compensation, interconnection, and interstate and international rates and services, including interstate access charges. Access charges are a form of intercarrier compensation designed to compensate our wireline subsidiaries for the use of their networks by other carriers.



Our subsidiaries operating outside the United States are subject to the jurisdiction of national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is provided.



Additional information relating to regulation of our subsidiaries is contained in the Annual Report under the headings "Operating Environment Overview" beginning on page 22 and "Regulatory Developments" beginning on page 24 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



IMPORTANCE, DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES





MAJOR CUSTOMER



No customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in 2015, 2014 or 2013.



COMPETITION



Information relating to competition in each of our operating segments is contained in the Annual Report under the heading "Competition" beginning on page 24, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).






AT&T Inc.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



AT&T scientists and engineers conduct research in a variety of areas, including IP networking; advanced network design and architecture; network and cyber security; network operations support systems; satellite technology; and data mining techniques. The majority of the development activities are performed by AT&T Services, Inc. The developers within AT&T Services, Inc. work with our business units to create new services and invent tools and systems to manage secure and reliable networks for us and our customers. In recent years, we initiated a technology outreach effort aimed at venture capital funded startups with the objective of rapidly introducing new solutions, products and applications developed by third parties. We also have a research agreement with Ericsson. Research and development expenses were $1,693 million in 2015, $1,730 million in 2014, and $1,488 million in 2013.



EMPLOYEES



As of January 31, 2016, we employed approximately 281,000 persons. Approximately 45 percent of our employees are represented by the Communications Workers of America, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or other unions. Four-year contracts covering approximately 24,000 traditional wireline employees in our Southeast region were ratified on December 4, 2015. Contracts covering approximately 9,000 mobility employees in the Southwest region and nearly 16,000 traditional wireline employees in our West region will expire in 2016. After expiration of the current agreements, work stoppages or labor disruptions may occur in the absence of new contracts or other agreements being reached. A separate contract covering only benefits with approximately 40,000 employees in our mobility business expires in 2016, though there is a no strike/no lock-out clause. Contracts covering wages and other non-benefit working terms for these mobility employees are structured on a regional basis.



At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 322,422 retirees who, along with their dependents, were eligible to receive retiree benefits.






AT&T Inc.



