ITEM 1. BUSINESS



GENERAL



AT&T Inc. ("AT&T," "we" or the "Company") is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive offices at 208 S. Akard St., Dallas, Texas, 75202 (telephone number 210-821-4105). We maintain an Internet website at www.att.com. (This website address is for information only and is not intended to be an active link or to incorporate any website information into this document.) We make available, free of charge, on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on that website, and in print, if any stockholder or other person so requests, our "Code of Ethics" applicable to all employees and Directors, our "Corporate Governance Guidelines," and the charters for all committees of our Board of Directors, including Audit, Human Resources and Corporate Governance and Nominating. Any changes to our Code of Ethics or waiver of our Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, executive officers or Directors will be posted on that website.



History



Scope

We are a leading provider of telecommunications services in the United States and the world. We offer our services and products to consumers in the U.S. and services and products to businesses and other providers of telecommunications services worldwide.



The services and products that we offer vary by market, and include: wireless communications, data/broadband and Internet services, video services, local exchange services, long-distance services, telecommunications equipment, managed networking, and wholesale services. We group our operating subsidiaries as follows, corresponding to our two operating segments for financial reporting purposes:

·wireless subsidiaries provide both wireless voice and data communications services across the U.S. and, through roaming agreements, in a substantial number of foreign countries.

·wireline subsidiaries provide primarily landline data and voice communication services, AT&T U-verse®high speed broadband, video, and voice services (U-verse) and managed networking to business customers.



Our Corporate and Other information includes unallocated corporate expenses, our portion of results from our equity investments and impacts from corporate-wide decisions for which the individual operating segments are not being evaluated.



Our wireline subsidiaries operate as the ILEC in 21 states: Alabama, Arkansas, California, Illinois, Indiana, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Kansas, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Wisconsin (21-state area). These subsidiaries are subject to regulation by each state in which they operate and by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Wireless service providers are regulated by the FCC. Additional information relating to regulation, acquisitions and dispositions and other strategic matters are contained under the heading "Government Regulation" and in the Annual Report under the headings "Operating Environment and Trends of the Business" and "Other Business Matters" and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).




AT&T Inc.



With continuing advances in technology and in response to changing demands from our customers, we have focused on providing broadband, video and voice services over both our wireless and wireline platforms. We have also agreed to purchase DirecTV to expand our offerings to satellite technology. We make our customers' lives more convenient and productive and foster competition and further innovation in the communications and entertainment industry. In 2015, we plan to focus on the areas discussed below.



Wireless

AT&T Mobility began operations in October 2000 as a joint venture between us and BellSouth and, in 2004, acquired AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. Upon our acquisition of BellSouth in 2006, AT&T Mobility became a wholly-owned subsidiary.



In the United States, we now cover all major metropolitan areas and more than 300 million people with our LTE technology. We also provide 4G coverage using another technology (HSPA+), and when combined with our upgraded backhaul network, we are able to enhance our network capabilities and provide superior mobile broadband speeds for data and video services. Our wireless network also relies on other GSM digital transmission technologies for 3G and 2G data communications. As of December 31, 2014, we served more than 120 million subscribers.



As the wireless industry continues to mature, we believe that future wireless growth will increasingly depend on our ability to offer innovative data services and a wireless network that has sufficient spectrum and capacity to support these innovations. We are facing significant spectrum and capacity constraints on our wireless network in certain markets. We expect such constraints to increase and expand to additional markets in the coming years. While we are continuing to invest significant capital in expanding our network capacity, our capacity constraints could affect the quality of existing voice and data services and our ability to launch new, advanced wireless broadband services, unless we are able to obtain more spectrum. Any long-term spectrum solution will require that the FCC make additional spectrum available to the wireless industry to meet the expanding needs of our subscribers. We will continue to attempt to address spectrum and capacity constraints on a market-by-market basis. To that end, we closed nearly 50 deals to acquire spectrum and wireless operations during 2014. In addition, we also acquired Leap in March 2014, which enabled us to expand our spectrum position in a cost-effective manner. In January 2015, we submitted winning bids for 251 Advanced Wireless Service (AWS) spectrum licenses for a near-nationwide contiguous block of high-quality AWS spectrum in the AWS-3 Auction (FCC Auction 97) for $18,189.



Also as part of our efforts to improve our network performance and help address the need for additional spectrum capacity, we are redeploying spectrum currently used for basic 2G services to support more advanced mobile Internet services on our 3G and 4G networks. We are managing this process consistent with previous network upgrades and are transitioning customers on a market-by-market basis from 2G networks to our more advanced 3G and 4G networks. We expect to fully discontinue service on our 2G networks by approximately January 1, 2017. As of December 31, 2014, about 2 percent of AT&T's postpaid subscribers used handsets only capable of using 2G services. We do not expect this transition to have a material impact on our operating results.



In January 2015, we completed the acquisition of GSF Telecom Holdings, S.A.P.I. de C.V. and announced an agreement to acquire NII Holdings Inc., another Mexican wireless provider. These two acquisitions will give us a GSM network covering both the U.S. and Mexico and enable our customers to use wireless services without roaming on other companies' networks. We believe this seamless access will prove very attractive to customers and provide a significant growth opportunity.Business Customers

We expect to continue to strengthen the reach and sophistication of our network facilities and our ability to offer a variety of communications services, both wireless and wireline, to large businesses, governmental and wholesale customers worldwide. We expect to offer similar services to small- and medium-businesses and to increase the attractiveness of our services to governmental customers. We also expect to extend our wholesale business offerings to other service products and systems integration services.




AT&T Inc.





Data/Broadband

As the communications industry continues to move toward Internet-based technologies that are capable of blending traditional wireline and wireless services, we plan to offer services that take advantage of these new and more sophisticated technologies. In particular, we intend to continue to focus on expanding our AT&T U-verse high speed broadband and video offerings and on developing IP-based services that allow customers to unite their home or business wireline services with their wireless service.



U-verse ServicesDuring 2014, we continued to expand our offerings of U-verse high speed Internet and TV services. As part of Project Velocity IP, we announced a goal to expand our IP-broadband service to approximately 57 million customer locations and we achieved that goal during 2014. As of December 31, 2014, we had 12.5 million total U-verse subscribers (high-speed Internet and video), including 12.2 million Internet and 5.9 million video subscribers (subscribers to both services are only counted once in the total).



We believe that our U-verse TV service is a "video service" under the Federal Communications Act. However, some cable providers and municipalities have claimed that certain IP services should be treated as a traditional cable service and therefore subject to the applicable state and local cable regulation. Petitions have been filed at the FCC alleging that the manner in which we provision "public, educational and governmental" (PEG) programming over our U-verse TV service conflicts with federal law. If courts having jurisdiction where we have significant deployments of our U-verse services were to decide that federal, state and/or local cable regulation were applicable to our U-verse services, or if the FCC, state agencies or the courts were to rule that we must deliver PEG programming in a manner substantially different from the way we do today or in ways that are inconsistent with our current network architecture, it could have a material adverse effect on the cost and extent of our U-verse offerings.



Internet Protocol TechnologyIP is generally used to describe the transmission of data, which can include voice (called voice over IP or VoIP), using a software-based technology rather than a traditional wire and physical switch-based telephone network. A company using this technology can provide voice and data services at a lower cost because this technology uses bandwidth more efficiently than a traditional network and has not been subject to traditional telephone industry regulation. Using this technology also presents growth opportunities especially in providing data and video services to both fixed locations and mobile devices.  To take advantage of both these growth and cost-savings opportunities, we have begun the migration of wireline customers in our current 21-state area to services using IP, and expect to continue this transition through at least 2020.



BUSINESS OPERATIONS



OPERATING SEGMENTS

Our segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services over various technology platforms and are managed accordingly. We analyze our operating segments based on segment income before income taxes. We make our capital allocation decisions based on the strategic needs of the business, needs of the network (wireless or wireline) providing services and to provide emerging services to our customers. Actuarial gains and losses from pension and other postemployment benefits, interest expense and other income (expense) – net, are managed only on a total company basis and are, accordingly, reflected only in consolidated results. Therefore, these items are not included in the calculation of each segment's reportable results. The customers and long lived assets of our reportable segments are predominantly in the United States. Each segment's percentage of total segment operating revenue and income calculations is derived from our segment results. We have two reportable segments: (1) Wireless and (2) Wireline.



Additional information about our segments, including financial information, is included under the heading "Segment Results" on pages 13 through 18 and in Note 4 of the Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



WIRELESS

Wireless consists of our subsidiary, AT&T Mobility, which operates as a wireless provider to both business and consumer subscribers. Our Wireless segment provided approximately 56% of 2014 total segment operating revenues and 75% of our 2014 total segment income. At December 31, 2014, we served more than 120 million wireless subscribers. We classify our subscribers as either postpaid, prepaid, connected device or reseller.



Service–We offer a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice and data communications services in a variety of pricing plans, including postpaid and prepaid service plans. Our offerings are tailored to meet the communications needs of targeted customer categories, including youth, family, professionals, small businesses, government and business.



SM



3AT&T Inc.



Our postpaid wireless service is provided under two alternatives: (1) for subscribers who purchase their equipment under the traditional device subsidy model, service contracts are for two year periods with an increasing portion of these subscribers receiving unlimited voice and texting services in conjunction with data services purchased through our Mobile Share Value plans; and (2) for subscribers purchasing a device on installments under the AT&T Next program, no annual service contract is signed but the device must be paid in full if the customer chooses to drop their service from AT&T.  Our prepaid service is provided to certain customers who prefer to pay in advance. Our wireless services include data and voice services, including long-distance service and roaming services. Roaming services enable our subscribers to utilize other carriers' networks when they are "roaming" outside our network footprint. We also charge fees to other carriers for providing roaming services to their customers when their customers utilize our network.



Equipment–We sell a wide variety of handsets, wirelessly enabled computers (i.e., tablets and notebooks) and personal computer wireless data cards manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents or third-party retail stores. Like other wireless service providers, we have provided postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to initiate, renew or upgrade service. To reduce these subsidies and provide our customers with more service options, we offer our AT&T Next program, which allows customers to buy handsets on an installment basis in exchange for discounted service charges, along with other benefits, and we also offer new customers the opportunity to bring their own device. A majority of our postpaid customers using smartphones no longer purchase subsidized handsets. As a result of these customer trends regarding handsets, we expect equipment revenues to continue to increase in 2015 along with a proportionate decline in service revenues. We also sell accessories, such as carrying cases, hands-free devices, batteries, battery chargers and other items, to consumers, as well as to agents and third-party distributors for resale.



Additional information on our Wireless segment is contained in the Annual Report in the "Operating Environment Overview" section under the heading "Expected Growth Areas," "Wireless" and in "Other Business Matters" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" beginning on page 20 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



WIRELINE

Our Wireline subsidiaries provide both retail and wholesale communication services domestically and internationally. Our Wireline segment provided approximately 44% of 2014 segment operating revenues and 25% of our 2014 total segment income. We divide our wireline services into two product-based categories: service and equipment.



Service



4AT&T Inc.





Our circuit-based, traditional data products include switched and dedicated transport services that allow business customers to transmit data at high speeds, as well as DSL Internet access. Our offerings use high-capacity digital circuits, and allow customers to create internal data networks and to access external data networks. Switched Transport services transmit data using switching equipment to transfer the data between multiple lines before reaching its destination. Dedicated Transport services use a single direct line to transmit data between destinations. DSL is a digital modem technology that converts existing twisted-pair telephone lines into access paths for multimedia and high-speed data communications to the Internet or private networks.



Network integration services include installation of business data systems, local area networking and other data networking offerings. Internet access services include a wide range of products for residences and businesses including access service, dedicated access, web hosting, managed services, e-mail and high-speed access services. Our managed web-hosting services for businesses provide network, server and security infrastructure as well as built-in data storage and include application performance management, database management, hardware and operating system management. Our hosting services also provide customers with secure access to detailed reporting information about their infrastructure and applications. These services are evolving to a cloud delivery model, providing customers with on-demand data storage and computing capabilities from a centrally-managed network (referred to as the cloud) accessible from a variety of different devices and locations.



Packet services consist of data networks using packet switching and transmission technologies, including traditional circuit-based and IP connectivity services. Packet services enable customers to transmit large volumes of data economically and securely and are used for local area network (LAN) interconnection, remote site, point of sale and branch office communications. High-speed packet services are used extensively by enterprise (large business) customers.



Enterprise networking services provide comprehensive support from network design, implementation and installation to ongoing network operations and management for networks of varying scales, including LANs, wide area networks, and virtual private networks. These services include applications such as e-mail, order entry systems, employee directories, human resource transactions and other database applications. We also offer Wi-Fi service.



We provide intrastate, interstate and international wholesale networking capacity to other service providers. We offer a combination of high-volume transmission capacity and conventional dedicated line services on a regional, national and international basis to our wholesale customers, which are primarily wireless carriers, interexchange carriers, Internet service providers (ISPs) and facility-based and switchless resellers.



Voice services include traditional local and long-distance service provided to retail customers and wholesale access to our network and individual network elements provided to competitors. At December 31, 2014, our wireline subsidiaries served approximately 9 million retail consumer access lines, 9 million retail business access lines and 2 million wholesale access lines. We also have a number of integrated voice and data services, such as integrated network connections, that provide customers the ability to integrate access for their voice and data services, including VoIP.



Long distance consists of traditional long distance and international long distance for customers that select us as their primary long-distance carrier. We also provide wholesale switched access service to other service providers.



Equipment–Customer premises equipment and other equipment sales consist primarily of basic telephones,  and private digital switching systems used by larger businesses to provide intra-office telephone services as well as access to our network.



5AT&T Inc.



MAJOR CLASSES OF SERVICE



The following table sets forth the percentage of total consolidated reported operating revenues by any class of service that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated total operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal years:



Percentage of TotalConsolidated Operating Revenues201420132012Wireless SegmentService46%48%47%Equipment10%6%6%Wireline SegmentService43%45%46%Equipment1%1%1%



GOVERNMENT REGULATION



Wireless communications providers must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within specified geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC. The FCC's rules have a direct impact on whether the wireless industry has sufficient spectrum available to support the high quality, innovative services our customers demand. Wireless licenses are issued for a fixed time period, typically ten years, and we must seek renewal of these licenses. While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to operating companies such as us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public interest. Additionally, while wireless communications providers' prices and service offerings are generally not subject to regulation, the federal government and various states are considering new regulations and legislation relating to various aspects of wireless services.



On January 14, 2014, the D.C. Circuit released its decision on Verizon's appeal of the FCC's Net Neutrality rules. Those rules prohibited providers of fixed, mass market Internet access service from blocking access to lawful content, applications, services or non-harmful devices. The rules prohibited providers of mobile broadband Internet access service from blocking consumers from accessing lawful websites or applications that compete with the provider's own voice or video telephony services. The rules also imposed transparency requirements on providers of both fixed and mobile broadband Internet access services, requiring public disclosure of information regarding network management practices, performance and commercial terms of their service offerings. In addition, the rules prohibited providers of fixed (but not mobile) broadband Internet access service from unreasonably discriminating in their transmission of lawful network traffic.



In its decision, the court found the FCC had authority under section 706 of the Act (which directs the FCC and state commissions to promote broadband deployment) to adopt rules designed to preserve the open Internet, but vacated and remanded the antidiscrimination and no-blocking rules on the ground that they impermissibly imposed common carrier regulation on broadband Internet access service. The court held that, having declared broadband Internet access services to be information services, the FCC could not regulate them as telecommunications services. The court did not vacate the transparency rules.





6AT&T Inc.



Our wireline subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state governments, which have the power to regulate intrastate rates and services, including local, long-distance and network access services, provided such state regulation is consistent with federal law. Some states have eliminated or reduced regulations on our retail offerings. These subsidiaries are also subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC with respect to intercarrier compensation, interconnection, and interstate and international rates and services, including interstate access charges. Access charges are a form of intercarrier compensation designed to compensate our wireline subsidiaries for the use of their networks by other carriers.



Our subsidiaries operating outside the United States are subject to the jurisdiction of national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is provided. Regulation is generally limited to operational licensing authority for the provision of enterprise services.



Additional information relating to regulation of our subsidiaries is contained in the Annual Report under the headings "Operating Environment Overview" beginning on page 20 and "Regulatory Developments" beginning on page 22 and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



IMPORTANCE, DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES





MAJOR CUSTOMER



No customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in 2014, 2013 or 2012.



COMPETITION



Information relating to competition in each of our operating segments is contained in the Annual Report under the heading "Competition" beginning on page 23, and is incorporated herein by reference pursuant to General Instruction G(2).



7AT&T Inc.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



AT&T Labs' scientists and engineers conduct research in a variety of areas, including IP networking; advanced network design and architecture; network and cyber security; network operations support systems; and data mining techniques. The majority of the development activities are performed by AT&T Services, Inc. The developers within AT&T Services, Inc. work with our business units and AT&T Labs to create new services and invent tools and systems to manage secure and reliable networks for us and our customers. In recent years, we initiated a technology outreach effort aimed at venture capital funded startups with the objective of rapidly introducing new solutions, products and applications developed by third parties. We also have a research agreement with Ericsson. Research and development expenses were $1,730 million in 2014, $1,488 million in 2013, and $1,278 million in 2012.



EMPLOYEES



As of January 31, 2015, we employed approximately 253,000 persons. Approximately 53 percent of our employees are represented by the Communications Workers of America, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or other unions. Contracts covering approximately 41,000 non-Mobility employees will expire during 2015, including approximately 12,000 traditional wireline employees in our five-state Midwest region and 24,000 in our nine-state Southeast region.  After expiration of the current agreements, work stoppages or labor disruptions may occur in the absence of new contracts or other agreements being reached.



At December 31, 2014, we had approximately 331,000 retirees who, along with their dependents, were eligible to receive retiree benefits.



8AT&T Inc.





