
10-K
AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY 1998 10-K



===============================================================================

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

              |X| ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                                       OR
            | | TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
               For the transition period from ________to ________
                           Commission File No. 1-7657

                            American Express Company
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           New York                                             13-4922250
  (State or other jurisdiction                               (I.R.S. Employer
of incorporation or organization)                          Identification No.)

    World Financial Center
      200 Vesey Street
     New  York, New York                                              10285
(Address of principal executive offices)                           (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 640-2000

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                          Name of each exchange
      Title of each class                                 on which registered
      ___________________                                 ___________________
Common Shares (par value $.60 per Share)                New York Stock Exchange
                                                        Boston Stock Exchange
                                                        Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                        Pacific Exchange 

7.00% Cumulative Quarterly Income                       New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Securities, Series I of American
Express Company  Capital Trust I (and the 
guarantee of American  Express Company
with respect thereto)

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports  
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant  was required to file such  reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X  No
                                             ___    ___

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. _

     Common  shares of the  registrant  outstanding  at March 4, 1999  were 450,
324,448. The aggregate  market value, as of March 4, 1999, of voting shares held
by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $50.1 billion. 

                       Documents Incorporated By Reference
                       ___________________________________

Parts I, II and IV: Portions of Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.
   Part III: Portions of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 11, 1999.




                                Form 10-K
Item Number
     Part I                                                                Page
     ------                                                                ----
1.   Business
         Travel Related Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
         American Express Financial Advisors   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
         American Express Bank/Travelers Cheque   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
         Corporate and Other  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
         Foreign Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
         Important Factors Regarding Forward-Looking Statements     . . . .  32
         Segment Information and Classes of Similar Services    . . . . . .  35
         Executive Officers of the Company  .  .  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . 35
         Employees  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
2.   Properties  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
3.   Legal Proceedings    . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   . . . . . . . . . 40

     Part II
     -------
5.   Market for Company's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters   .  40
6.   Selected Financial Data . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
           of Operations     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    . . . . . 40
8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  41
9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
           Financial Disclosure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41

     Part III
     --------
10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Company  . . . . . . . . . . . .41
11.  Executive Compensation     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management . . . . .41
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   . . . . . . . . . . . .41

     Part IV
     -------
14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K . . . .41
     Signatures   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  43
     Index to Financial Statements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  F-1
     Consent of Independent Auditors  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . F-2
     Exhibit Index    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E-1





                                     PART I
                                     ------

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

         American  Express  Company  (including  its  subsidiaries,  unless  the
context indicates otherwise, the "Company") was founded in 1850 as a joint stock
association  and was  incorporated  under  the laws of the  State of New York in
1965.  The Company is  primarily  engaged in the  business of  providing  travel
related services, financial advisory services and international banking services
throughout the world.*

                             TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES
                             -----------------------

         American Express Travel Related Services Company,  Inc.  (including its
subsidiaries,  unless the context indicates otherwise, "TRS") provides a variety
of products and services,  including, among others, global network services, the
American  Express(R)  Card,  the Optima(R) Card and other consumer and corporate
lending products,  stored value products,  business expense management  products
and  services,   corporate  and  consumer  travel  products  and  services,  tax
preparation and business planning services,  magazine  publishing,  and merchant
transaction processing, point of sale and back office products and services. TRS
offers  products  and  services  in  approximately  160  countries.  In  certain
countries, partly owned affiliates and unaffiliated entities offer some of these
products and services under licenses from TRS.

         TRS'  business  as a whole  has not  experienced  significant  seasonal
fluctuation,  although Card billed business tends to be moderately higher in the
fourth quarter than in other quarters.

         TRS places  significant  importance on its trademarks and service marks
and diligently protects its intellectual property rights around the world.

         GLOBAL NETWORK SERVICES
         -----------------------

         TRS operates a global  general  purpose  credit and charge card network
which  performs  functions  essential  to the  acceptance  by merchants of cards
issued  by  network  issuers.   These  functions  include,  for  example,  brand
advertising,   new  product   development  and   telecommunications   and  other
technologies, including systems to authorize and settle card transactions. Cards
bearing the American Express logo ("Cards") are issued by qualified institutions
and are accepted at all merchant  locations  worldwide  that accept the American
Express Card.

__________________
*Various  forward-looking  statements are made in this 10-K Annual Report, which
generally  include the words "believe,"  "expect,"  "anticipate,"  "optimistic,"
"intend," "aim," "will," and similar expressions. Certain factors that may cause
actual  results  to differ  materially  from these  forward-looking  statements,
including the Company's goals referred to herein, are discussed on pages 32-34.






         TRS is the  largest  issuer  of Cards on the  American  Express  global
network;  however,  there are currently 43  arrangements in place with banks and
other  qualified  institutions  around the world  providing for Card issuance by
those entities.  Some of these  arrangements have been in place for more than 20
years;  the vast majority  have been  established  since 1995. In May 1996,  the
Company invited banks and other  qualified  institutions in the United States to
begin  issuing  Cards on the  American  Express  network.  In 1997,  the Company
established a separate internal organization, Global Network Services, to manage
its network  business,  bringing  increased  focus and  resources  to this area.
During 1998,  TRS  established  16 new network  arrangements  outside the United
States,  adding  to the 27  network  arrangements  already  in  place  (see  TRS
International below). In addition,  Global Network Services showed strong volume
growth in 1998 with a 30% increase in billed business.

         To date, the only U.S.  issuers on the American Express network are TRS
and National Westminster Bank, Plc (a United Kingdom financial  institution with
no other card issuing  activities in the United  States).  This is the result of
rules and policies of VISA USA, Inc. and MasterCard International,  Incorporated
("MasterCard")  in the United States  calling for expulsion of members who issue
American Express-branded cards. No banks have been willing to forfeit membership
in VISA USA,  Inc. and/or  MasterCard  to  issue cards on  the American  Express
network.  In a lawsuit  filed on October 7, 1998 against VISA USA, Inc. and VISA
International Corp. (collectively,  "VISA") and MasterCard,  the U.S. Department
of Justice  alleged  that these rules and  policies  violate the U.S.  antitrust
laws.

         As a network,  TRS encounters  intense worldwide  competition from card
systems like VISA, MasterCard, Diners Club, the Discover/NOVUS Network of Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter & Co. (U.S. only) and JCB. The principal competitive factors
that affect the network business are (i) the number of cards in force and extent
of  spending   done  with  these  cards;   (ii)  the  quantity  and  quality  of
establishments  that will  accept  the  cards;  (iii) the  success  of  targeted
marketing and promotional campaigns; (iv) reputation and brand recognition;  (v)
the ability to develop and implement  innovative  systems and technologies;  and
(vi) the ability to develop and implement  innovative types of card products and
merchant support services.

         CONSUMER CARD SERVICES
         ----------------------

         TRS and its licensees offer  individual  consumers charge cards such as
the American Express(R) Card, the American Express(R) Gold Card and the Platinum
Card(R),  revolving  credit  cards such as the  Optima(R)  Card and the American
Express(R)  Credit Card,  among others,  and a variety of cards sponsored by and
co-branded with other corporations and institutions.  Cards are currently issued
in  45  currencies   (including  cards  issued  by  banks  and  other  qualified
institutions) and permit Cardmembers to charge purchases of goods or services in
the United States and in most countries around the world at establishments  that
have agreed to accept them, and to access cash through automated teller machines
at approximately 227,000 locations worldwide.

         Charge  Cards,  which are marketed in the United  States and many other
countries  and carry no pre-set  spending  limit,  are  primarily  designed as a
method  of  payment  and not as a






means of financing purchases of goods or services. Charges are approved based on
a variety of factors including a Cardmember's account history, credit record and
personal resources. Except in the case of extended payment plans (such as Sign &
Travel(R) and the Special Purchase Account(SM),  Charge Cards require payment by
the Cardmember of the full amount billed each month,  and no finance charges are
assessed.  Charge Card accounts that are past due are subject, in most cases, to
a  delinquency  assessment  and,  if not brought to current  status,  subject to
cancellation.

         The Optima Card  comprises a family of revolving  credit cards marketed
in the United  States and other  countries.  TRS makes  available to customers a
variety of Optima Cards with  different  payment  terms,  grace periods and rate
structures. TRS and its licensees also issue revolving credit cards which do not
carry the Optima  brand,  primarily  outside the United  States.  TRS intends to
issue more of these non-Optima revolving credit products in the U.S., which will
carry the American Express brand.

         American  Express  Centurion Bank  ("Centurion  Bank"),  a wholly-owned
subsidiary of TRS,  issues the Optima Card in the United States and owns most of
the receivables arising from the use of these Cards. In addition, Centurion Bank
has  outstanding  lines of credit in  association  with certain Charge Cards and
offers  unsecured  loans to Cardmembers  in connection  with their Sign & Travel
Account and Special Purchase Account.  The Sign & Travel program gives qualified
United States  Cardmembers the option of extended  payments for airline,  cruise
and certain  travel charges that are purchased with the Charge Card. The Special
Purchase  Account  offers  qualified  United  States  Cardmembers  the option of
extending  payment  for  certain  charges  on the  Charge  Card in  excess  of a
specified  amount.   In  several  markets  outside  the  United  States,   other
subsidiaries  of TRS engage in  consumer  lending  activities,  subject to local
regulations.

         Centurion Bank's deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit  Insurance
Corporation  ("FDIC")  up  to  $100,000  per  depositor.  Centurion  Bank  is  a
Utah-chartered  industrial  loan company  regulated,  supervised  and  regularly
examined by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC.

         TRS Cardmembers generally are charged an annual fee, which varies based
on the type of card, the number of cards for each account, the currency in which
the card is  denominated  and the country of residence of the  Cardmember.  Many
Optima Cards are offered with no annual fee. Each Cardmember must meet standards
and criteria for  creditworthiness  which are applied through a variety of means
both at the time of initial  solicitation or application and on an ongoing basis
during the Card relationship.  The Company uses sophisticated  credit models and
techniques in its risk management operations.

         Cardmembers  have access to a variety of special services and programs,
depending  on the type of Card  they  have,  including:  Membership  Rewards(R),
Global  Assist(R)  Hotline,  Buyer's  Assurance Plan, Car Rental Loss and Damage
Insurance Plan, Travel Accident Insurance,  Purchase Protection Plan, and Return
Protection.  Gold Card  Cardmembers  in the




United States have access to certain additional  services,  including a Year End
Summary of Charges Report. The Platinum Card, offered to certain  Cardmembers in
the United States and certain other countries, provides access to additional and
enhanced travel, financial,  insurance,  personal assistance and other services.
Under the Express Cash program, enrolled Cardmembers can obtain cash or American
Express(R)  Travelers  Cheques  24 hours a day from  automated  teller  machines
worldwide.   Personal,  Gold  and  Platinum  Cardmembers  receive  the  Customer
Relationship Statement, which is used to communicate special offers for products
and services of both merchants and the Company.

         American Express Credit Corporation,  a wholly-owned subsidiary of TRS,
along with its  subsidiaries  ("Credco"),  purchase most Charge Card receivables
arising  from the use of cards  issued in the United  States  and in  designated
currencies   outside  the  United  States.   Credco  finances  the  purchase  of
receivables principally through the issuance of commercial paper and the sale of
medium- and  long-term  notes.  Centurion  Bank  finances its  revolving  credit
receivables  through the sale of short- and medium-term  notes and certificates.
TRS and  Centurion  Bank  also fund  receivables  through  asset  securitization
programs.  The cost of funding Cardmember receivables is a major expense of Card
operations.

         The  Charge  Card  and  consumer  lending  businesses  are  subject  to
extensive  regulation  in the United  States  under a number of federal laws and
regulations,  including  the  Equal  Credit  Opportunity  Act,  which  generally
prohibits discrimination in the granting and handling of credit; the Fair Credit
Reporting Act, which, among other things, regulates use by creditors of consumer
credit  reports  and  credit   prescreening   practices  and  requires   certain
disclosures  when an  application  for credit is rejected;  the Truth in Lending
Act, which, among other things,  requires extensive disclosure of the terms upon
which credit is granted; the Fair Credit Billing Act, which, among other things,
regulates  the manner in which  billing  inquiries  are  handled  and  specifies
certain  billing  requirements;  and the Fair Credit and Charge Card  Disclosure
Act, which mandates certain  disclosures on credit and charge card applications.
Federal  legislation  also  regulates  abusive  debt  collection  practices.  In
addition,  a number of states and foreign countries have similar consumer credit
protection and disclosure  laws. The application of federal and state bankruptcy
and debtor  relief  laws  affect the  Company to the extent  such laws result in
amounts owed being classified as delinquent and/or charged off as uncollectible.
The laws and  regulations  discussed above have not had, and are not expected to
have,  a  material  adverse  effect  on the  Charge  Card and  consumer  lending
businesses  either in the United States or on a worldwide basis.  Centurion Bank
is subject to a variety of state and federal laws and regulations  applicable to
FDIC-insured,  state-chartered financial institutions.  Changes in such laws and
regulations or judicial  interpretation thereof could impact the manner in which
Centurion Bank conducts its business.

         In 1998,  TRS  continued to focus on deepening its  relationships  with
core  Cardmembers  and gaining a greater  share of the  plastic  spending of its
customers. It introduced existing Cardmembers to other card products,  including
upgrades to Gold and Platinum Cards, increased usage of lending products such as
Sign & Travel and the Special  Purchase  Account,  and  provided  incentives  to
increase  everyday  spending by Cardmembers  in categories  such as 





gasoline and groceries.  TRS also selectively  expanded the size of credit lines
and  encouraged  Cardmembers  to transfer  outstanding  balances from other card
issuers. As a result, TRS significantly increased lending balances and continued
to capture a greater share of the credit card lending market.  In 1998, TRS also
launched  several new card  products.  It introduced a card which offers special
services and discounts to National  Restaurant  Association  members,  and began
issuing the American  Express(R) Cash Rebate Card, which gives Cardmembers up to
two percent cash back on their purchases. TRS also had strong growth in Platinum
Cards. TRS is continuing to make a significant investment in its card processing
system and infrastructure to allow faster introduction and greater customization
of products.

         Over  the past few  years,  TRS has  expanded  its  Membership  Rewards
program  (formerly the Membership  Miles(R) travel rewards program) to include a
broader  range of travel  rewards  and retail  merchandise  and  gourmet  gifts.
Membership Rewards is an important part of TRS' strategy to increase  Cardmember
spending and loyalty.  Membership  Rewards is one of the industry's most popular
rewards  programs  with over  seven-and-one-half  million  enrollees  worldwide.
Enrollees now represent a significant portion of Cardmember spending.  TRS makes
payments to merchants  pursuant to  contractual  arrangements  when  Cardmembers
redeem their  Membership  Rewards points and establishes  reserves in connection
with  estimated  future  redemptions.  Due to higher  charge  volumes and reward
redemption  rates,  the cost of Membership  Rewards has increased  over the past
several years and continues to grow. In 1997 and 1998, TRS took certain steps to
contain the overall costs of the program, and plans to continue to consider and,
as appropriate,  introduce  changes to the program to both maintain its value to
Cardmembers and operate it more efficiently.

         TRS  encounters   substantial  and  increasingly   intense  competition
worldwide with respect to the Card issuing  business.  As a Card issuer,  TRS is
faced with  competition  from other financial  institutions  (such as Citigroup,
First USA/Bank One, MBNA,  Chase  Manhattan,  Bank of America and Barclays Bank)
that are members of VISA and/or MasterCard and that issue general purpose cards,
primarily  under revolving  credit plans,  on one or both of those systems,  and
from Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., the issuer of the  Discover(R)  Card. TRS
also encounters some very limited  competition  from businesses that issue their
own cards or otherwise extend credit to their  customers,  such as retailers and
airline  associations,  although these cards are not generally  substitutes  for
TRS' Cards due to their limited acceptance.

         Numerous  United  States banks  issuing  credit  cards under  revolving
credit plans charge annual fees in addition to interest  charges where permitted
by state law.  However,  the issuer of the Discover  Card on the  Discover/NOVUS
Network,  as well as many issuers of VISA cards and MasterCard cards,  generally
charge no annual fees.

         Competing  card  issuers  offer a variety of products  and  services to
attract  cardholders  including premium cards with enhanced services or lines of
credit,  airline  frequent  flyer  program  mileage  credits and other reward or
rebate  programs,  "teaser"  promotional  rates  for both card  acquisition  and
balance transfers, and co-branded arrangements with partners that 


offer benefits to cardholders. Recently mergers and consolidations among banking
and financial services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by major
issuers have resulted in some issuers becoming larger,  with greater  resources,
economies of scale and potential  brand  recognition  to compete,  and a smaller
number of dominant issuers has emerged.  There has also been an increased use of
debit cards for point of sale  purchases  as many banks have  replaced ATM cards
with general purpose debit cards bearing either the VISA or MasterCard logo.

         The principal competitive factors that affect the Card issuing business
are (i) the quality of the services and products,  including  rewards  programs,
provided to Cardmembers;  (ii) the number,  spending  characteristics and credit
performance of Cardmembers; (iii) the quantity and quality of the establishments
that will accept a card; (iv) the cost of cards to Cardmembers; (v) the terms of
payment  available to Cardmembers;  (vi) the number and quality of other payment
instruments  available to  Cardmembers;  (vii) the nature and quality of expense
management data capture and reporting capability; (viii) the success of targeted
marketing and promotional campaigns; (ix) reputation and brand recognition;  and
(x) the ability of issuers to implement operational and cost efficiencies.

         MERCHANT SERVICES
         -----------------

         Over the past several  years,  TRS'  Establishment  Services  Group has
focused on  expanding  the TRS  network of  merchants  and  increasing  merchant
acceptance,  both through  internal  personnel and third party sales agents.  In
1998,  TRS  increased  its merchant  coverage in various  industries,  including
supermarkets,  retailers,  furniture stores,  government agencies and charitable
organizations.  The total  number of new  merchants  signed in the U.S.  in 1998
increased  16 percent from the prior year.  The  merchant  network in the United
States can now  accommodate  over 94 percent of  American  Express  Cardmembers'
general purpose plastic spending,  up slightly from last year. TRS' objective is
to achieve merchant  coverage that is at parity with bankcard  networks.  In the
United  States,  TRS  acquires   merchants  through  three  sales  channels:   a
proprietary sales force, third party sales agents and telemarketing.

         As  a  merchant   processor,   TRS  accepts  and  processes  from  each
participating  establishment the charges arising from Cardmember  purchases at a
discount that varies with the type of  participating  establishment,  the charge
volume,  the timing and  method of payment to the  establishment,  the method of
submission of charges and, in certain  instances,  the average charge amount and
the amount of information  provided.  As a result of TRS' attractive  Cardmember
base with  loyal,  high-spending  Personal  and  Corporate  cardmembers,  TRS is
generally able to charge higher discount rates to  participating  establishments
than its  competitors.  While many  establishments  understand  this  pricing in
relation  to the  value  provided,  TRS has  encountered  complaints  from  some
establishments,  as well as  suppression  of the Card's use,  and  continues  to
devote significant resources to respond to these issues.

         TRS focuses on understanding  and addressing key factors that influence
merchant  satisfaction,  on  executing  programs  that  increase  card  usage at
merchants and on  strengthening  its  relationships  with  merchants  through an
expanded  roster of services  that help them meet 




their business  goals.  These include  software and internet based services that
assist  with  back  office   reconciliation  and  that  help  to  secure  online
transactions.  In 1998,  TRS expanded its ATM business in the United States with
the acquisition of nearly 3,000 terminals, making TRS the ninth largest operator
of ATMs in the U.S.  TRS plans to use these ATMs to deliver a range of  services
to Cardmembers and to help build retail sales for merchants.

         On a global basis,  the American  Express network manages the acquiring
relationship with merchants,  as well as the issuing side of the business.  This
"closed  loop",  which  distinguishes  the  American  Express  network  from the
bankcard  networks,  provides a rich source of  information  at both ends of the
Card transaction and enables TRS to provide targeted marketing opportunities for
merchants  and  special  offers  to  Cardmembers.  In  1998,  TRS  expanded  the
CustomExtras program,  which is used to make special offers of merchant products
and services to Cardmembers in their billing  statements,  and enables merchants
to tailor offers to their best customers.

         CORPORATE SERVICES, SMALL BUSINESS SERVICES AND TRAVEL
         ------------------------------------------------------

         TRS, through its Corporate  Services Group and Small Business  Services
Group,  is the  leading  provider  to large  and  small  businesses  of  expense
management systems and travel services.

         The Corporate  Services Group ("CSG")  provides  Corporate  Charge Card
expense  management  services to large and  mid-sized  companies  for travel and
entertainment  spending.  Companies  are  offered  these  services  through  the
American  Express  Corporate Card,  which is a charge card issued to individuals
through a corporate account established by their employer for business purposes.

         CSG integrates the Corporate Card and business  travel  services in the
United  States and certain  foreign  countries to meet the  competition  for the
business traveler and to provide client companies with a customized  approach to
managing  their  travel and  entertainment  budgets.  Clients  are  provided  an
information  package to plan,  account for and control travel and  entertainment
expenses.

         The Corporate Services business continued to grow in 1998. However, the
economic  slowdown outside the U.S. dampened  corporate  spending and travel. In
addition, the ongoing trend of commission rate reductions from airlines resulted
in decreased  business  travel  revenue and price  increases  for  travelers and
corporations. Competitors also continue to increase their focus on the Corporate
Card  business.  For a discussion  of  competition  relating to the Card issuing
business, see pages 5 and 6.

         In 1998, TRS decided not to pursue further bidding on the United States
Government  Card  contract  after  reevaluating  the earnings  potential of this
business.  As a result,  in  November  1998,  TRS' Card  contract  with the U.S.
government  terminated.  The Government  account  represented  approximately 1.6
million  Cards  outstanding  and  approximately  $3.5  billion in annual  billed
business.





         In 1998,  CSG  continued  to  develop  electronic  solutions  to assist
companies in managing costs by leveraging  technologies.  TRS enhanced  American
Express  Interactive,  or AXI(R), an interactive business travel product jointly
developed with Microsoft  Corporation,  which now has nearly 250,000  registered
users. TRS also launched, along with Concur Technologies,  a service that allows
customers to file an expense  report online by combining  Corporate Card charges
with  travel  information,  thereby  permitting  business  travelers  to  obtain
reimbursement more quickly.

         TRS also  offers  products  to enhance  client  company  management  of
non-travel and entertainment  business expenses through the Corporate Purchasing
Card.  This  product  assists  large  companies  in managing  indirect  spending
including traditional purchasing administration expenses.  Employees can use the
Purchasing Card to order directly from manufacturers and suppliers,  rather than
using the traditional  system of requisitions,  purchase orders and invoices and
retail store  purchasing.  TRS pays the suppliers  and submits a single  monthly
billing statement to the company.

         TRS,  through  its Small  Business  Services  Group,  is also a leading
provider of financial and travel services to small businesses  (i.e.,  less than
100  employees  and/or sales of $10 million or less).  TRS  continued to achieve
substantial  growth in the Small Business Services Group in 1998. TRS serves the
needs of small  businesses  with a portfolio of charge and credit card products.
In addition,  TRS offers its customers a Privileged Rates program which includes
specifically  negotiated rates on services such as car rental,  gasoline,  hotel
and office  services.  TRS also maintains a website,  the American Express Small
Business Exchange, through which it provides small business owners with relevant
information, expert advice and customer servicing applications.

         A key  strategy  for TRS is the creation of products to meet better the
credit  needs of small  business  owners.  Equipment  financing is a key lending
category for small  business  owners.  In 1998,  TRS expanded  this  business by
acquiring 100% ownership of the equipment financing company,  CapitaFinance,  in
which TRS  previously  had a 50% interest.  In February 1999, TRS also purchased
Rockford Industries, a firm that provides point-of-purchase equipment financing.

         In 1998,  TRS also  introduced  an  International  Payments site on the
internet,   which  provides  a  convenient  and  cost-effective  way  for  small
businesses  in the U.S.  to pay  international  vendors  in more than 40 foreign
currencies, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. TRS also entered into a marketing
arrangement  with,  and purchased a minority  investment in,  Administaff  Inc.,
which offers American Express' small business clients human resource services on
an outsourced basis.

         American  Express Tax and  Business  Services  ("TBS") is a part of the
Small Business  Services Group. TBS provides a wide range of services  including
tax preparation and compliance;  preparation of non-attest financial statements;
business  continuation  and  transition  




planning;  business valuation; loan consultation and preparation;  business plan
development;  money management assistance;  bookkeeping and payroll consultation
services;  cash flow planning;  and other business consulting services.  TBS has
offices in  approximately  60 locations in 18 states,  and  continued to acquire
accounting firms in 1998.

         TRS provides a wide variety of travel  services to customers  traveling
for business and personal  purposes and is the leading  business travel provider
worldwide.  Travel services include trip planning,  reservations,  ticketing and
other  incidental  services.  In addition,  for business  travel  accounts,  TRS
provides corporate travel policy consultation and management information systems
as well as group and incentive  travel  services.  TRS receives  commissions and
fees for travel  bookings and  arrangements  from airlines,  hotels,  car rental
companies and other travel suppliers, service fees for certain transactions such
as  re-ticketing,  courier  services and complex  itineraries and management and
transaction fees from certain  business travel accounts.  In 1998, TRS continued
its strategy of bolstering its travel  industry  presence to improve its ability
to negotiate  with key suppliers and reduce profit margin  pressure.  During the
year it acquired Travel One, the ninth largest travel agency in the U.S., with a
large number of middle-sized  business travel clients. In 1998, TRS also further
strengthened its roster of Business Travel clients and also focused on deepening
its partnerships  with major airlines and hotel companies  through,  among other
initiatives,  the launching of co-branded  cards and programs  offering  special
amenities to travelers.

         TRS' retail travel network of more than 1,700 owned and  representative
offices is important in  supporting  the American  Express  brand and  providing
customer service throughout the world. TRS continually  evaluates this structure
to determine the best way to leverage the strength of the travel network. At the
same time, TRS is developing ways to better serve the travel consumer, including
1-800-type services, and internet-based products and services.  During 1998, TRS
acquired Travel Impressions,  a developer and marketer of vacation packages, and
Empress Travel, a retail travel agency  franchiser.  In March 1999, TRS acquired
Golden Bear Travel Agency, a travel agency specializing in cruises.

         TRS faces vigorous  competition  from more than 30,000 travel agents as
well as direct sales by airlines and travel  suppliers in the United  States and
abroad.  This  competition is mainly based on price,  service,  convenience  and
proximity  to the customer and has  increased  due to several  factors in recent
years,  including  the  acquisition  of  independent  agencies by larger  travel
companies.  Travel  agency  groups and  consortia  also have  increased in size,
enabling participating  independent agencies to be more competitive in providing
travel  services to regional and national  business  travel clients and in other
activities.  In addition,  many companies  have  established  in-house  business
travel departments.

         Airlines have continued efforts to reduce their distribution  expenses,
including  travel  agency  commissions,  through  techniques  such  as  caps  on
commission  fees and decreases in base  commission  rates.  This has caused some
independent agencies to go out of business. In response, TRS has accelerated its
efforts to rely less on  commissions  by  establishing  more  service  fee-based
client relationships.  Consolidation of travel agencies is likely to continue as
agencies seek to better serve national and multinational business travel clients
and  negotiate  



more effectively with the airlines with respect to computer  reservation systems
and  compensation  and pricing  arrangements.  It is also  expected  that travel
agencies will continue to look for expense  reduction  opportunities.  Customers
may increasingly seek alternative channels to make travel arrangements,  such as
on-line vendors or "ticketless"  airline  services that require booking directly
with the airlines.

         TRS INTERNATIONAL
         -----------------

         The TRS  International  group is focusing on expanding its  proprietary
card  business and network  alliances in key markets,  expanding  the network of
merchants that accept  American  Express  Cards,  leveraging  opportunities  for
growth in  Corporate  Card,  Corporate  Travel and in other  areas of  Corporate
Services and  re-engineering  its business to improve key  processes  and reduce
costs.

         In 1998, TRS continued to bolster its proprietary  business through the
launch of more than 30 new  proprietary  and  co-branded  charge  and  revolving
credit cards in a number of markets outside the United States.  These included a
Small Business Card in the U.K.;  Blue Cards,  which are revolving  credit cards
targeted  to young  consumers,  in the  U.K.,  Germany,  Canada  and  Singapore;
Platinum Cards in Argentina, Taiwan, Malaysia, Brazil and Singapore;  co-branded
cards with  Aeromexico  in Mexico,  Thai Airways and the Dusit Group in Thailand
and Air France,  Accor and Credit  Lyonnais in France;  and a co-branded  Travel
Rewards Card in Thailand.

         TRS  International  also  continued to pursue  alliances  through joint
ventures  or with  qualified  institutions  that issue  cards  with an  American
Express  logo.  These  cards are  accepted  worldwide  on the  American  Express
merchant  network.  In  1998,  TRS  established  16  new  network  arrangements,
launching  cards with Banco Popular in Puerto Rico, AMP Banking in Australia and
Komercni  Banka in the Czech  Republic,  among  others.  TRS also  formed  joint
ventures  with  Generale  Bank  in  Belgium/Luxembourg   and  Credit  Suisse  in
Switzerland.   As  of  December  31,  1998,  TRS  had   established  43  network
arrangements in over 53 countries.  TRS expects to continue establishing similar
types of arrangements outside the United States while at the same time deepening
its relationships with existing partners.

         TRS  International  also  strengthened its corporate travel business in
1998. It increased its ownership in Havas Voyages SA, the largest  travel agency
in France, from a minority to a wholly-owned  interest,  and established a joint
venture with BBL Travel in Belgium and Luxembourg.  These  acquisitions  bolster
TRS'  position in the global travel  business,  provide a platform for Corporate
Card sales and further  increase the  importance  of TRS' customer base with key
travel suppliers.  This is important in the current travel agency business, both
internationally and domestically, with ongoing pressure to reduce commissions by
major airlines and other suppliers.

         Significant re-engineering initiatives by TRS International during 1998
include a franchise  agreement in Germany  whereby Otto Reiseburo GmbH, a member
of the Otto  Versand  Group,  will  operate 25 American  Express  retail  travel
offices  and  co-brand  a number 



of their own offices,  thereby  expanding  the American  Express  travel  office
network in  Germany  on a  cost-effective  basis.  TRS also  launched a campaign
similar  to the  successful  program  it used in the U.S.  in  order to  address
suppression issues in key international markets.

         In 1998,  spending billed on TRS' International Cards and corporate and
personal  travel  softened in certain  markets  outside the U.S.  due in part to
difficult economic conditions during the year.

         TRS International  also provides foreign exchange services to consumers
in American  Express  Travel  Offices,  dedicated  bureaus,  airports  and other
outlets,  and cross-border  money transfer services for small business,  banking
and travel customers.

         OTHER PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
         ---------------------------

         American  Express  Relationship  Services  ("AERS")  sells products and
services which address some of the information,  access, security, financial and
telecommunications  needs of American Express customers.  Services offered for a
fee to Cardmembers include travel, health and credit insurance products,  credit
card registry, credit bureau monitoring and telecommunication services. In 1998,
AERS  launched  three  fee-for-service  programs,  including  Charge Card credit
protection,  discounts  on home repair and  improvement  services,  and extended
warranties for major home systems and appliances.  AERS also offers  merchandise
directly to Cardmembers,  who may elect to pay in  installments  with no finance
charges and also markets educational loans to students and parents.

         AERS is also  developing  new  stored  value  products.  In 1998,  AERS
introduced  the Electronic  Gift Card, a magnetic  stripe stored value card that
replaces retail gift certificates.

         AERS is also responsible for three enterprise-wide utilities, including
interactive,  smart  cards and  customer  information  management.  The group is
seeking to develop the  Company's  enterprise-wide  interactive  strategy with a
focus on providing  internet and  interactive  capabilities  to meet  customers'
needs.  This is expected to be an  increasingly  important part of the Company's
business in the future.  Over the last several  years,  TRS has made a number of
minority investments in internet firms, which typically also include a marketing
arrangement  with  such  companies.  In  1998,  AERS  invested  in  Ticketmaster
Online-CitySearch,  Inc.,  which supplies  online  information  guides and event
ticketing for consumers  and  merchants;  Concur  Technologies,  which  provides
employee desktop solutions including travel and expense  management;  SaveSmart,
which  offers  personalized  online  offers from  participating  merchants;  and
@Back-up, which offers computer back-up service over the internet.

         AERS is also developing  global strategies for smart cards and customer
information management. Smart cards are cards with computer chips that can store
and process data without the need for a direct  telecommunications link with the
card  issuer.  During the year TRS  invested in Proton  World  International,  a
leading  developer and licensor of smart card electronic purse  technology,  and
became a  licensee  of the  Multos(TM) smart card  operating  





system.  AERS will continue to focus on the fast-changing  electronic  commerce,
smart card and information  management arenas and seek to craft solid strategies
for the Company.  

     Currently  through  the  Company's  website, consumer  and  small  business
Cardmembers  can access account  information,  pay their  American  Express Card
bills and apply for certain  Card  products.  Cardmembers  may also  utilize the
Quicken(R)  software offered by Intuit(R),  Inc. and Microsoft(R) Money software
offered by Microsoft  Corporation,  to view their American  Express Card account
information.  Through  the  Company's  website  customers  can  also  invest  in
securities,  check their 401(k) account, book travel reservations,  apply for an
educational  loan, plus many other services;  merchants also can apply to accept
the  card  and  reconcile  their  accounts.   The  Company  anticipates  further
developments in this area in 1999.

         TRS also  publishes  lifestyle  magazines  such as Travel & Leisure(R),
Travel  &  Leisure(R)   Golf,   Food  &  Wine(R),   travel   resources  such  as
SkyGuide(R), Departures(TM), and business resources such as the American Express
Appointment Book and Your Company(R) magazine.

                       AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS
                       -----------------------------------

         American Express Financial  Corporation  ("AEFC") provides a variety of
financial products and services to help individuals, businesses and institutions
establish  and achieve  their  financial  goals.  AEFC's  products  and services
include  financial  planning and advice,  insurance and annuities,  a variety of
investment products, including investment certificates, mutual funds and limited
partnerships,   investment   advisory   services,   trust  and   employee   plan
administration  services,  personal  auto and  homeowner's  insurance and retail
securities brokerage services.  At December 31, 1998, American Express Financial
Advisors  Inc.  ("AXP  Advisors"),   AEFC's  principal   marketing   subsidiary,
maintained a nationwide financial planning field force of 10,350 persons,  which
includes  approximately  1,100  advisors  from  the  acquisition  of  Securities
America, Inc. in 1998.

         DISTRIBUTION OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
         -------------------------------------

         AXP Advisors has three primary financial service distribution channels:
retail,  consisting of financial  advisors and direct access (online,  telephone
and fax), institutional and third party.

         AXP Advisors'  primary  distribution  channel is its corps of financial
advisors.  Through this  channel,  AXP Advisors  offers  financial  planning and
investment  advisory  services (for which it charges a fee) to  individuals  and
business owners which address six basic areas of financial  planning:  financial
position, protection, investment, income tax, retirement and estate planning, as
well as asset allocation.  AXP Advisors' financial advisors provide clients with
recommendations  from the more than 100 products distributed by subsidiaries and
affiliates of AEFC as well as products of approved third parties.




         First-year  financial  advisors  are  compensated  primarily by salary;
veteran  financial  advisors  receive  compensation  based  largely on sales and
assets maintained from sales. The compensation system is structured to encourage
advisor  retention  and  product  persistency,  while  adding  stability  to the
financial  advisor's  income.  In attracting and retaining  members of the field
force, AXP Advisors competes with financial planning firms, insurance companies,
securities  broker-dealers  and other financial  institutions.  During 1998, AXP
Advisors  continued a major  initiative to improve advisor  retention and client
satisfaction. It implemented on a nationwide basis Advisor Link(TM), which is an
integrated  desktop  financial  planning,  client  management and  communication
software package which helps advisors generate more sophisticated,  easy-to-read
financial plans more quickly.

         The use of a dedicated field force may entail higher initial costs than
other  forms  of  marketing,  such  as  direct-response  or  independent  agency
distribution.  However,  AXP  Advisors  believes  that its  ability  to  provide
broad-based  integrated  services  on a  relationship  basis  is  a  competitive
advantage.  At the same time, AXP Advisors  recognizes that it needs to continue
its efforts to increase  the size of its  dedicated  field force due to its main
competitors'  larger sales forces and more  developed  alternative  distribution
channels.

         Consistent  with the Company's goal of promoting  cross-selling  across
all of its units,  AXP Advisors has increased its sales to customers  from other
American Express businesses. In 1998, American Express Cardmembers accounted for
over 30 percent of all new  clients of AXP  Advisors'  financial  advisors,  and
substantial investment certificate sales were made to American Express Bank Ltd.
foreign  customers.  Further  cross-selling will be sought through AXP Advisors'
recently  established  office in Japan,  which plans to offer financial products
and services to TRS' Cardmembers in Japan (as well as to non-Cardmembers).

         To enhance its ability to retain  advisors,  AXP Advisors is working on
plans to add choices to how  advisors  fit into the  organization,  with various
levels of service, compensation and branding. This includes providing options to
the current American  Express-branded  advisor network, which will differ in the
level of service  and payout  rate  offered.  Advisors  will be able to choose a
salaried  employee  advisor  network  with a high level of  service  and a lower
payout rate; a branded  advisor  network in which  advisors get a higher  payout
rate and can  purchase the service  they  prefer;  or an  unbranded  independent
broker/dealer  network with a minimal  level of service and higher  payout.  AXP
Advisors  took a step  toward  implementing  this plan when it acquired in March
1998  Securities   America,   Inc.,  an  independent   broker-dealer   servicing
approximately  1,100  financial  advisors  and a  distributor  of mutual  funds,
annuities and insurance products.

         During 1998 the  American  Express  Financial  Direct unit  ("Financial
Direct"),  the Company's other financial services retail  distribution  channel,
was moved into the AXP Advisors'  organization  to more closely align  Financial
Direct with AXP  Advisors'  product  manufacturing  capabilities  and to provide
Financial  Direct's  clients  with  alternative  methods  to  access  investment
products,  such as  meeting  with a  financial  advisor.  To date,  results  for
Financial  Direct  as a stand  alone  business  have been  below  the  Company's
expectations  and below  scale.  AXP  Advisors  ultimately  plans to combine the
capabilities of the financial  




advisors and Financial  Direct to provide clients multiple ways to interact with
AXP Advisors.  The feasibility and impact of this integrated retail business are
being  tested in a pilot which  began its first  phase in the fourth  quarter of
1998.

         Financial  Direct uses direct  marketing  and on-line  services to help
prospects  and  clients  select  appropriate  products  and  services.  Products
developed  by AXP  Advisors  as well as  other  businesses  of the  Company  and
selected outside vendors are offered through  Financial  Direct.  These products
are distributed by American  Express Service  Corporation and other  affiliates,
and include payment,  credit,  insurance and investment products such as no load
mutual funds from 12 leading fund families  (including the Strategist Funds from
American  Express  referred  to below);  money  market  funds;  certificates  of
deposit;  annuities;  and  brokerage  services  (over the  internet  or  through
telephone or mail).  The Financial  Direct  product line also offers  Investment
Rewards,  which are points based upon the value of new deposits after opening an
Investment  Management Account that may be redeemed for airline travel and other
rewards.

         During the year,  AXP  Advisors  expanded its  institutional  business,
which includes 401(k) services and separate  account asset  management  services
for corporate,  public and union  retirement  funds. It now serves more than 600
institutions.

         In addition to the retail and institutional  distribution channels, AXP
Advisors  has  a  third-party  channel,  which  distributes  financial  planning
services and investment,  insurance and annuity products through  alliances with
financial institutions, such as banks and thrift institutions.

         The move to multiple distribution channels has implications for how AXP
Advisors  services  its  clients.  In  order  to  provide  clients  with  a more
integrated  service,  it will be necessary to build the  capability to recognize
and service the client's entire relationship with the institution  regardless of
which channel or channels they have used. This will require, among other things,
investment in both technology  infrastructure and the service  organization.  In
addition,  the  distribution of proprietary  products outside of the traditional
advisor channel will require,  among other things,  that the organization modify
its product systems so they can interface  according to industry  standards with
distributors outside of AXP Advisors.

         AXP Advisors does business as a broker-dealer and investment advisor in
all 50 states,  the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.  AEFC and AXP Advisors
are  registered  as  broker-dealers  and  investment  advisors  regulated by the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  ("SEC") and are  members of the  National
Association  of Securities  Dealers,  Inc.  ("NASD").  AXP  Advisors'  financial
advisors must obtain all required state and NASD licenses.

         AXP  Advisors  has  experienced,  and  believes  it  will  continue  to
encounter,  increased  regulatory  oversight of the securities  and  commodities
industries  at  all  levels.  Among  other  powers,  the  SEC,   self-regulatory
organizations  and  state  securities  commissions  may  conduct  administrative
proceedings, which may result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist
orders or suspension or expulsion of a  broker-dealer  or an investment  advisor
and its officers or employees.





         Competition in the financial  services  industry  focuses  primarily on
cost, investment performance, yield, convenience,  service, reliability, safety,
distribution  systems,  reputation  and brand  recognition.  Competition in this
industry is very intense. AEFC competes with a variety of financial institutions
such as banks, securities brokers, mutual funds and insurance companies. Some of
these  institutions  are larger and more global than AEFC, and the current trend
towards  consolidation and globalization in the financial  services industry may
increase  the  number of these  stronger  competitors.  Many of these  financial
institutions  also have products and services that  increasingly  cross over the
traditional  lines that previously  differentiated  one type of institution from
another,  thereby heightening competition in many of AEFC's markets. The ability
of certain financial institutions to offer, and the dramatically increased usage
by investors of, on-line  investment and information  services has also affected
the  competitive  landscape  over the  past  couple  of  years.  Reflecting  the
competitive  environment,  certain financial institutions have continued to seek
to hire AXP Advisors' financial advisors.

         AEFC's  business does not as a whole  experience  significant  seasonal
fluctuations.

         INSURANCE AND ANNUITIES
         -----------------------

         AEFC's insurance business is carried on primarily by IDS Life Insurance
Company ("IDS Life"), a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of
the State of Minnesota. IDS Life is a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEFC and serves
all states except New York.  IDS Life is the  fourteenth  largest life insurance
company in the United States,  with consolidated  assets at December 31, 1998 of
$56.6  billion.  IDS  Life  Insurance  Company  of New  York  is a  wholly-owned
subsidiary of IDS Life and serves New York State  residents.  IDS Life also owns
American Enterprise Life Insurance Company ("American  Enterprise Life"),  which
issues fixed and  variable  dollar  annuity  contracts  for sale through  banks,
thrift  institutions  and stock  brokerages.  American  Centurion Life Assurance
Company ("American  Centurion Life") is an IDS Life subsidiary that offers fixed
and variable  annuities to American Express  Cardmembers and others in New York,
as well  as  fixed  and  variable  annuities  for  sale  through  banks,  thrift
institutions and stock  brokerages in New York. IDS Life owns American  Partners
Life  Insurance  Company  ("American  Partners  Life"),  which  offers fixed and
variable annuity contracts to American Express Cardmembers and others who reside
in states other than New York.

         IDS Life's  products  include  whole  life,  universal  life (fixed and
variable),  single premium life and term products  (including  waiver of premium
and accidental death benefits),  disability income and long-term care insurance.
IDS Life is one of the nation's  largest  issuers of single premium and flexible
premium deferred annuities on both a fixed and variable dollar basis.  Immediate
annuities  are offered as well.  IDS Life  markets  variable  annuity  contracts
designed for retirement plans.

         IDS Life's fixed deferred  annuities  guarantee a relatively low annual
interest rate during the  accumulation  period (the time before annuity payments
begin).  However,  the 





company  has the  option  of  paying a higher  rate  set at its  discretion.  In
addition,  persons owning one type of annuity may have their interest calculated
based on any upward movement in a broad-based  stock market index. IDS Life also
offers a  variable  annuity,  the  "Flexible  Portfolio  Annuity,"  in which the
purchaser may choose  between  mutual funds,  with  portfolios of common stocks,
bonds,  managed assets and/or  short-term  securities,  and IDS Life's  "general
account" as the underlying  investment  vehicle.  Over the past five years,  IDS
Life's  variable  annuity sales have had an  increasing  impact on total annuity
sales.

         IDS Life,  American  Enterprise  Life and  American  Partners  Life are
subject to  comprehensive  regulation  by the  Minnesota  Department of Commerce
(Insurance  Division),  the Indiana  Department  of  Insurance,  and the Arizona
Department  of Insurance,  respectively.  American  Centurion  Life and IDS Life
Insurance  Company of New York are regulated by the New York State Department of
Insurance.  The laws of the other  states in which these  companies  do business
also  regulate  such matters as the  licensing of sales  personnel  and, in some
cases, the marketing and contents of insurance  policies and annuity  contracts.
The purpose of such  regulation  and  supervision  is  primarily  to protect the
interests of policyholders.  Regulatory  scrutiny of market conduct practices of
insurance  companies,  including sales,  marketing and replacements of fixed and
variable life insurance and  annuities,  has increased  significantly  in recent
years  and  is  impacting  the  manner  in  which  companies   approach  various
operational  issues,  including  compliance  efforts.  There  has  also  been an
increase  in the  number of  private  lawsuits  alleging  violations  of laws in
connection  with insurance and annuity market conduct (see Legal  Proceedings on
page 39).  Virtually  all states  mandate  participation  in insurance  guaranty
associations,  which  assess  insurance  companies  in order to fund  claims  of
policyholders of insolvent insurance  companies.  On the federal level, there is
periodic interest in enacting new regulations relating to various aspects of the
insurance  industry  including taxation of variable annuities and life insurance
policies, accounting procedures, as well as the treatment of persons differently
because of sex,  with  respect to terms,  conditions,  rates or  benefits  of an
insurance  contract.  New  federal  regulation  in  any  of  these  areas  could
potentially have an adverse effect upon AEFC's insurance subsidiaries.

         As a distributor of variable annuity and life insurance contracts,  IDS
Life is registered as a broker-dealer and is a member of the NASD. As investment
manager of various investment companies, IDS Life is registered as an investment
advisor under applicable federal requirements.

         IDS Property  Casualty  Insurance  Company  ("IDS  Property  Casualty")
provides personal auto and homeowner's  coverage to clients in 35 states and the
District of Columbia.  This  insurance is also  underwritten  by AMEX  Assurance
Company,  a subsidiary  of the American  Express  Company,  and reinsured by IDS
Property  Casualty.  IDS Property  Casualty is regulated by the  Commissioner of
Insurance for Wisconsin.  AMEX Assurance  Company,  which also provides  certain
American  Express  Card  related  insurance   products,   is  regulated  by  the
Commissioner of Insurance for Illinois.

         The  insurance  and  annuity  business is highly  competitive,  and IDS
Life's  competitors  consist  of both  stock  and  mutual  insurance  companies.
Competitive  factors  applicable to the 





insurance  business  include the interest  rates  credited to its products,  the
charges deducted from the cash values of such products,  the financial  strength
of the organization and the services provided to policyholders.

         INVESTMENT CERTIFICATES
         -----------------------

         IDS Certificate  Company ("IDSC"),  a wholly-owned  subsidiary of AEFC,
issues face-amount investment certificates.  IDSC is registered as an investment
company under the Investment  Company Act of 1940.  IDSC  currently  offers nine
types of face-amount  certificates.  Owners of IDSC certificates are entitled to
receive,  at  maturity,  a  stated  amount  of  money  equal  to  the  aggregate
investments in the certificate plus interest at rates declared from time to time
by IDSC. In addition,  persons owning two types of  certificates  may have their
interest  calculated  in whole  or in part  based on any  upward  movement  in a
broad-based stock market index. The certificates  issued by IDSC are not insured
by any  government  agency.  AEFC acts as  investment  manager for IDSC.  IDSC's
certificates  are sold primarily by AXP Advisors' field force.  Certificates are
also marketed by American Express Bank Ltd. to its foreign customers.

         IDSC is the largest  issuer of face-amount  certificates  in the United
States.  At December  31,  1998,  it had  approximately  $3.8 billion in assets.
IDSC's  certificates  compete  with many  other  investments  offered  by banks,
savings and loan associations,  credit unions, mutual funds, insurance companies
and similar financial  institutions,  which may be viewed by potential customers
as  offering  a  comparable  or  superior  combination  of safety  and return on
investment.

         MUTUAL FUNDS
         ------------

         AXP  Advisors  offers a variety of mutual  funds,  for which it acts as
principal  underwriter  (distributor of shares). AEFC acts as investment manager
and performs  various  administrative  services.  The "IDS(R) MUTUAL FUND GROUP"
consists of 38 retail  mutual  funds,  with varied  investment  objectives,  and
includes, for example, money market,  tax-exempt,  bond and stock funds. The IDS
MUTUAL  FUND  GROUP,  with  combined  net assets at  December  31, 1998 of $84.8
billion,  was the  fourteenth  largest  mutual fund  organization  in the United
States and,  excluding money market funds,  was the eighth  largest.  The uneven
performance in the global financial markets in 1998 impacted the results of many
of the funds in the IDS MUTUAL FUND GROUP,  and investment  results for the year
were mixed overall.

         For most funds,  shares are sold in three  classes.  Class A shares are
sold at net asset value plus any  applicable  sales  charge.  The maximum  sales
charge is five percent of the  offering  price with  reduced  sales  charges for
larger  purchases.  Class B shares are sold with a rear load.  The maximum sales
charge is five  percent  declining  to no charge for shares held over six years.
Class Y shares are sold to  institutional  clients with no load.  Fifteen of the
IDS funds are structured as feeder funds investing in the Preferred Master Trust
Group,  a group of fifteen  master  funds,  advised by AEFC. A second  family of
fifteen funds,  the no-load  





Strategist  Funds,  distributed by American  Express Service  Corporation,  also
invests in the  Preferred  Master  Trust  Group.  This  structure  provides  for
potential development of additional channels of distribution.

         In  addition  to   full-commission   and  discount   brokerage   firms,
competitors  include other financial  institutions,  such as banks and insurance
companies. Recent growth trends in the market, including the increasing sales of
mutual funds to retail investors, have expanded the number of competitors in the
industry.  Some  competitors  are larger,  more  diversified and offer a greater
number of products,  and may have an  advantage in their  ability to attract and
retain  customers on the basis of one-stop  shopping.  The  competitive  factors
affecting  the sale of  mutual  funds  include  sales  charges  ("loads")  paid,
administrative expenses, services received,  investment performance, the variety
of products and services offered and the convenience to the investor.  The funds
compete  with  other  investment  products,  including  funds that have no sales
charge  (known  as "no  load"  funds),  funds  distributed  through  independent
brokerage firms and those distributed by other "exclusive" sales forces.

         AXP  Advisors,  through  a  subsidiary  that has been  registered  as a
broker/dealer  in Japan,  plans to begin  offering  mutual  funds to  individual
Japanese investors in March 1999.

         OTHER PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
         ---------------------------

         American Express Asset Management Group Inc. ("AEAMG"), a subsidiary of
AEFC,  is  an  SEC  registered   investment  advisor  that  provides  investment
management services for pension, profit sharing,  employee savings and endowment
funds  of  large-   and   medium-sized   businesses   and   other   institutions
("institutional  clients").  AEAMG through its Portfolio  Management  Group also
offers discretionary  investment  management services to wealthy individuals and
small institutions with account sizes between $1 million and $10 million.  AEAMG
also owns a majority interest in Kenwood Capital  Management LLC, which provides
investment  management services to investment companies,  corporations,  trusts,
estates,  charitable  organizations and tax qualified pension and profit sharing
plans. It employs an active  investment  strategy that is based on a disciplined
approach to stock selection and portfolio risk management,  and seeks to achieve
consistent  excess returns  relative to passive index  benchmarks for small- and
mid-cap segments of the U.S. Equity Market.

         Advisory  Capital  Strategies  Group,  Inc., a subsidiary of AEAMG,  is
registered  with the Commodity  Futures  Trading  Commission as a Commodity Pool
Operator  and  Commodity  Trading  Advisor and  provides  investment  management
services to certain private investment vehicles organized offshore.  It owns the
majority interest in Advisory Capital Partners LLC ("ACP"),  which is registered
with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a Commodity Pool Operator.  ACP
acts  as  general  partner  to  two   partnerships   seeking   superior  capital
appreciation, which are offered privately to qualified eligible participants and
which employ various  investment  strategies,  including among other things, the
use of leverage,  short selling of securities and investment in options, futures
and other derivative instruments.



         AEAMG also serves as a sub-advisor to American Express Asset Management
Ltd.  in  providing  investment  advice  with  respect to the U.S.  Equity  Fund
Portfolio for the American  Express Asset Management  Pooled Funds,  which is an
open-end  unit trust under  Canadian  tax law.  AEAMG also  provides  investment
management  services as collateral  manager for various special purpose entities
that issue their own securities  which are  collateralized  by a pool of assets,
e.g., collateralized bond obligations.

         At December 31, 1998,  AEAMG  managed  securities  portfolios  totaling
$20.1 billion for 404 accounts.

         International  or global  investment  management  is  offered to United
States-based   institutional   clients  by  American  Express  Asset  Management
International Inc. ("AEAMI"), a United States company with offices in Hong Kong,
London and Singapore,  and to non-United States based  institutional  clients by
American Express Asset Management Ltd. ("AEAML"), a U.K. company with offices in
Hong  Kong,  London  and  Singapore.   International   institutional  investment
management services are also provided, currently on a sub-advisor basis, for the
clients of AEAMI and AEAML by American  Express Asset  Management  International
(Japan)  Ltd.,  which  has  offices  in  Tokyo  and  which  also  plans to offer
investment management services to Japanese institutional  investors. At December
31, 1998,  AEAMI  managed  securities  portfolios  totaling  $8.1 billion for 23
accounts;  and AEAML managed securities  portfolios totaling $1.9 billion for 25
accounts. AEAMI and AEAML are wholly-owned subsidiaries of AEFC.

     The institutional investment management business is highly  competitive and
AEAMG and its  affiliates  must compete  against a substantial  number of larger
firms in seeking to acquire and maintain  assets under  management.  Competitive
factors  in this  business  include  fees,  investment  performance  and  client
service.

         AXP Advisors  also offers  investment  management  services for wealthy
individuals and small institutions.  IDS Wealth Management Service offers a wrap
program marketed to wealthy individuals through AXP Advisors' financial advisors
and marketing  employees and third-party  referrals.  American Express Strategic
Portfolio Services offers a mutual fund wrap program to wealthy individuals. IDS
Wealth Management  Service,  American Express Strategic  Portfolio  Services and
Portfolio Management Group are operating divisions of AXP Advisors.

         American Express Trust Company ("AETC")  provides  trustee,  custodial,
record keeping and investment  management services for pension,  profit sharing,
401(k) and other qualified and  non-qualified  employee  benefit plans.  AETC is
trustee of over 390 benefit plans which represent approximately $22.1 billion in
assets and  860,000  participants.  AETC has assets  under  custody in excess of
$120.2  billion and provides  non-trusteed,  investment  management of assets in
excess  of $1.9  billion.  AETC is  regulated  by the  Minnesota  Department  of
Commerce (Banking  Division).  AETC,  through its personal trust division,  also
offers trust services to individuals and organizations.  To facilitate expansion
of the personal trust  business,  AEFC filed an  application  with the Office of
Thrift Supervision to operate a federal savings bank.






         AXP Advisors  distributes  real estate  investment  trusts sponsored by
other companies. AXP Advisors also distributes from time to time managed futures
limited partnerships in which an AEFC subsidiary is a co-general partner.

         In 1998,  AEFC continued to expand its securities  brokerage  services.
American Enterprise Investment Services Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEFC,
provides securities  execution and clearance services for approximately  282,750
retail and  institutional  clients of AXP Advisors and American  Express Service
Corporation.  American  Enterprise  Investment  Services,  Inc.  holds over $9.7
billion in assets for clients.  American Enterprise Investment Services, Inc. is
registered  as a  broker-dealer  with the SEC,  is a member  of the NASD and the
Chicago Stock Exchange and is registered with appropriate states.

         In 1998 AEFC and American Express Bank Ltd. organized a jointly owned 
subsidiary.  American Express  International  Deposit Company ("AEIDC"),  in the
Cayman Islands to accept deposits from foreign clients of American  Express Bank
Ltd. AEIDC is not regulated as a bank in the Cayman Islands.

                     AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK/TRAVELERS CHEQUE
                     --------------------------------------

         In the third quarter of 1997,  management  of the  Company's  Travelers
Cheque  unit was  moved  from TRS'  Stored  Value  Group to the Chief  Executive
Officer of American  Express Bank Ltd., the head of the Company's  international
banking business. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS")  No. 131,  since the first  quarter of 1998,  the  Company's  Travelers
Cheque  operations has been reported in the same  operating  segment as American
Express Bank Ltd. The financial and other information  reported in the following
section under American  Express Bank relates only to such bank's  business,  and
the information  under the caption  Travelers  Cheque includes only  information
related to the Travelers Cheque business.

                              AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK
                              ---------------------

         The Company's  wholly-owned indirect subsidiary,  American Express Bank
Ltd. (together with its subsidiaries, where appropriate, "AEB"), offers products
that meet the  financial  service  needs of four  client  groups:  corporations,
financial institutions,  wealthy individuals and retail customers.  AEB does not
directly or indirectly do business in the United States except as an incident to
its activities outside the United States. Accordingly,  the following discussion
relating  to AEB  generally  does not  distinguish  between  United  States  and
non-United States based activities.

         AEB's five primary  business  lines are corporate  banking and finance,
correspondent banking,  private banking,  personal financial services and global
trading.  Corporate banking and finance is provided to corporations  principally
in emerging  markets and  includes  trade  finance  and working  capital  loans.
Correspondent  banking serves leading local banks primarily in emerging  markets
and includes  transaction  payments and a wide range of trade  





finance products such as letters of credit and payment guarantees,  collections,
check  clearing  and bankers  acceptances.  Private  banking  focuses on wealthy
individuals by providing such customers with  investment  management,  trust and
estate planning,  deposit  instruments and secured lending.  Personal  financial
services  provides  consumer  products in direct response to specific  financial
needs of retail  customers  and includes  interest-bearing  deposits,  unsecured
lines of credit,  installment  loans,  money market funds,  mortgage loans,  and
mutual fund and life insurance  products.  Through global trading,  AEB provides
treasury and capital market products and services,  including  foreign exchange,
foreign  exchange  options,  derivatives  and trading,  with a focus on emerging
markets.

         In 1998, AEB had a difficult  year overall,  primarily due to losses in
its corporate  banking  business.  In the first quarter,  AEB established a $138
million  (after-tax)  credit loss provision  related to the Bank's  Asia/Pacific
business,  particularly Indonesia. At year-end, loans outstanding worldwide were
approximately  $5.6 billion,  down from $6.2 billion at December 31, 1997, which
decrease  resulted  in part from its  decision  to  de-emphasize  corporate  and
correspondent banking.

         AEB made  progress in 1998 in private  banking and  personal  financial
services,  which  businesses are expected to be the long-term focus for AEB, due
in part to the fact that  marketing  to their  individual  client  bases is more
consistent with the overall  cross-selling  strategy of the Company.  During the
year, AEB developed a family of euro-denominated mutual funds which was launched
in France and Germany in January  1999,  and  introduced  personal  mortgages in
Greece and auto loans in India. The Private Bank showed significant growth, with
client holdings increasing 22 percent,  and client volumes in Personal Financial
Services  increased 23 percent.  AEB's global  trading unit also  benefited from
volatility in the financial and foreign exchange markets.

         AEB has also  continued  to work more  closely  with other parts of the
Company. AXP Advisors has contracted with AEB to manage most of AEB's Worldfolio
and Epic mutual funds. AEB has contracted with IDSC to market IDSC's  investment
certificates,  and has set up a joint venture with AEFC in the Cayman Islands to
accept  deposits.  In 1998, AEB increased  client  holdings in these deposits by
more than $1  billion.  TRS makes  Platinum  Cards  available  to AEB's  private
banking  clients.  In addition,  AEB offers credit  products such as installment
loans and revolving lines of credit to both Cardmembers and  non-Cardmembers  in
France,  Germany,  Greece,  Hong Kong,  Singapore and Taiwan. AEB also markets a
wide range of  investment  and savings  products to TRS  Cardmembers  and select
non-Cardmembers in France, Germany, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Singapore and Taiwan.

         In 1994,  AEB entered  into a 10-year  contract  with  Electronic  Data
Systems  Corporation ("EDS") for the outsourcing of AEB's global systems support
and  development and data processing  functions.  Under the contract,  EDS is to
maintain and operate AEB's existing  technology  systems and to develop  certain
other  systems.  The  major  focus of EDS in 1998 was the  remediation  of AEB's
computer systems for Year 2000 compliance.





         AEB has a global  network with offices in 38  countries.  Its worldwide
headquarters  is located in New York City.  It maintains  international  banking
agencies  in New  York  City  and  Miami,  Florida.  Its  wholly-owned  Edge Act
subsidiary,  American Express Bank International  ("AEBI"),  is headquartered in
Miami,  Florida  and has  branches  in New York  City and  Miami.  In 1998,  AEB
established a facility office in San Francisco, California.

         AEB's business does not, as a whole,  experience  significant  seasonal
fluctuations.

         SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION REGARDING AEB
         --------------------------------------------

         AEB's prior years'  financial  information has been restated to reflect
the  transfer  in 1994 of  certain  international  consumer  financial  services
businesses from TRS.

         AEB provides banking services to the Company and its subsidiaries.  AEB
is only one of many  international  and local  banks used by the Company and its
other subsidiaries, which constitute only a few of AEB's many customers.

         AEB's 1998 total assets of $11.6 billion  decreased  from $12.8 billion
in 1997.  Liquid  assets,  consisting of cash and deposits  with banks,  trading
account assets and investments,  were $4.9 billion at December 31, 1998 and $4.4
billion at December 31, 1997.







         The following  table sets forth a summary of financial  data for AEB at
and for each of the three years in the period ended  December 31, 1998  (dollars
in millions):


(a)   Calculated excluding the effect of SFAS No. 115.
(b)   Based upon  average  balances  and related  interest  income and  expense,
      including  the effect of interest  rate  products  where  appropriate  and
      transactions with related parties.
(c)   Interest  rates have been  calculated  based  upon  average  total  loans,
      including those on non-performing status.
(d)   On a tax equivalent basis.





         The following  tables set forth the composition of AEB's loan portfolio
at year end for each of the five years in the period  ended  December  31,  1998
(millions):



(a)  Based primarily on the domicile of the borrower.
(b)  Loans due after 1 year at fixed (predetermined)  interest rates totaled $82
     million,  while those at floating  (adjustable) interest rates totaled $810
     million.
(c)  Business  loans,  which  accounted  for  approximately  36  percent  of the
     portfolio as of December 31, 1998, were  distributed over 26 commercial and
     industrial categories.
(d)  Prior year amounts  have been  restated  to conform to the  current  year's
     presentation.





         The following table sets forth AEB's  non-performing  loans at year end
for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 1998 (millions):


         AEB defines an impaired  loan as any loan (other than certain  consumer
loans) on which the accrual of interest is discontinued  because the contractual
payment  of  principal  or  interest  has  become  90 days  past  due or if,  in
management's   opinion,  the  borrower  is  unlikely  to  meet  its  contractual
obligations (i.e., non-performing loans).

         The following is a summary of loans considered to be impaired under 
SFAS No. 114 and the related interest income:

                                                        December 31,
                                                     -----------------
(in millions)                                        1998        1997
                                                     ----        ----
Recorded investment in impaired loans
      not requiring an allowance (a)                 $  3       $   5
Recorded investment in impaired loans
      requiring an allowance                         $177       $  42
                                                     ----       -----
Total recorded investment in impaired loans          $180       $  47
                                                     ====       =====
Credit reserves for impaired loans                   $ 95       $  19
                                                     =====      =====

                                                          December 31,
                                                --------------------------------
(in millions)                                    1998         1997         1996
                                                 ----         ----         ----
Average recorded investment in impaired loans    $176         $ 58         $ 35
Interest income recognized on a cash basis          2            3            1

(a)   These loans do not require a reserve for credit losses since the values of
      the impaired loans equal or exceed the recorded investments in the loans.

         In addition to the above, AEB had other non-performing  assets totaling
$63  million at December  31,  1998,  $11  million at December  31, 1997 and $36
million at December 31,  1996.  The 1998 balance  primarily  represents  matured
foreign  exchange  and  derivative  contracts,  while the 1997 and 1996  amounts
represent  balances  transferred  from  non-performing  loans  as  a  result  of
foreclosures.  The decrease from 1996 to 1997 primarily  reflected the sale of a
foreclosed property.






         The following  table sets forth a summary of the credit loss experience
of AEB at and for each of the five years in the period  ended  December 31, 1998
(dollars in millions):


(a)  The increase in 1998 was mainly due to first quarter  credit loss provision
     related to business in the Asia/Pacific region, particularly Indonesia. The
     increase in 1996 was primarily due to loan growth, slightly higher consumer
     and commercial write-offs and lower commercial banking recoveries.
(b)  Prior year  amounts  have been  restated to conform to the  current  year's
     presentation in accordance with the American  Institute of Certified Public
     Accountants and Savings Institutions Audit and Accounting Guide.
(c)  The increase in 1998 was primarily due to  write-offs  in the  Asia/Pacific
     region,  primarily Indonesia.  
(d)  The increase in 1998 was due to write-offs of Indonesian foreign exchange 
     and derivative contracts.
(e)  The increase in 1997 was mainly due to a loan recovery from Peru.
(f)  Allocation:






         Interest  income is recognized on the accrual  basis.  Loans other than
certain  consumer  loans are placed on  non-performing  status when  payments of
principal or interest are 90 days past due or if, in management's  opinion,  the
borrower is unlikely to meet its contractual obligations.  When loans are placed
on non-performing status, all previously accrued but unpaid interest is reversed
against current  interest  income.  Cash receipts of interest on  non-performing
loans are recognized  either as interest  income or as a reduction of principal,
based upon management's judgment as to the ultimate collectibility of principal.
A non-performing  loan may be returned to performing status when all contractual
amounts due are reasonably  assured of repayment within a reasonable  period and
the borrower shows sustained repayment performance,  or when the loan has become
well secured and is in the process of  collection.  Consumer  loans  principally
consist of lines of credit and  installment  loans.  These loans are written off
against the  reserve  for credit  losses  upon  reaching  specified  contractual
delinquency  stages,  or  earlier  in  the  event  of  the  borrower's  personal
bankruptcy or if the loan is otherwise deemed uncollectible.  Interest income on
these loans generally accrues until the loan is written off.

         AEB separately  maintains and provides for reserves  relating to credit
losses for loans, derivatives and other credit-related commitments.  The reserve
is  established by charging a provision for credit losses  against  income.  The
amount  charged to income is based upon several  factors,  including  historical
credit  loss  experience  in  relation  to  outstanding  credits,  a  continuous
assessment of the  collectibility of each credit,  and management  evaluation of
exposures  in each  applicable  country as related  to current  and  anticipated
economic and political  conditions.  Management's  assessment of the adequacy of
the reserve is inherently  subjective,  as  significant  estimates are required.
Amounts deemed  uncollectible  are charged  against the reserve,  and subsequent
recoveries, if any, are credited to the reserve.

         The  reserve  for  credit  losses  related  to loans is  reported  as a
reduction  of loans.  The  reserve  related  to  derivatives  is  reported  as a
reduction  of trading  assets and the  reserve  related to other  credit-related
commitments is reported in other liabilities.

         RISKS
         -----

         The  global  nature  of  AEB's   business   activities  are  such  that
concentrations of credit to particular industries and geographic regions are not
unusual.  At December 31, 1998, AEB had  significant  investments in certain on-
and off-balance  sheet financial  instruments,  which were primarily represented
by deposits  with  banks,  securities,  loans,  forward  contracts,  contractual
amounts  of letters of credit  (standby  and  commercial)  and  guarantees.  The
counterparties to these financial  instruments were primarily  unrelated to AEB,
and principally consisted of banks and other financial  institutions and various
commercial  and  industrial  enterprises  operating  geographically  within  the
Asia/Pacific  region,  Europe,  North  America,  Latin  America  and the  Indian
Subcontinent.  AEB continuously  monitors its credit concentrations and actively
manages to reduce the associated risk.





         Beginning in 1997 and continuing  throughout 1998 certain  countries in
Asia began experiencing  economic  pressures that created liquidity  constraints
associated  with public and private  sector debt service.  At December 31, 1998,
AEB had exposures  throughout the Asia/Pacific  region,  including in Hong Kong,
Singapore,   Taiwan,  Indonesia  and  Korea,  among  other  countries.  AEB  had
approximately  $2.1  billion  outstanding  in loans in the  entire  Asia/Pacific
region at  year-end.  In  addition  to these  loans,  there  are  other  banking
activities,  such  as  forward  contracts,   various  contingencies  and  market
placements,  which  added  another  approximately  $1.1  billion  to the  credit
exposures  in the  region  at  year-end.  In the  first  quarter  of  1998,  AEB
established  a $213  million  ($138  million  after-tax)  credit loss  provision
related to AEB's business in the Asia/Pacific region, particularly Indonesia.

         AEB is  carefully  monitoring  its credit  exposures as well as actions
being taken by government entities to address and resolve currency and liquidity
issues.   The  continuing   economic   downturn  in  Asia  is   contributing  to
destabilizing effects upon the currency,  liquidity and capital markets of other
countries outside the Asia/Pacific region, particularly in Latin America. To the
extent  these  events  affect such  countries  where AEB has credit  exposure or
market presence,  AEB is closely  following such events and actively manages the
associated risks as the situation warrants.

         AEB's earnings are sensitive to  fluctuations  in interest rates, as it
is not always  possible to match  precisely the  maturities of  interest-related
assets and  liabilities.  However,  strict limits have been established for both
country and total bank mismatching.  On occasion,  AEB may decide to mismatch in
anticipation  of a change in future  interest  rates in  accordance  with  these
guidelines.  Term loans extended by AEB include both floating  interest rate and
fixed interest rate loans.

         For  a  discussion  relating  to  AEB's  use  of  derivative  financial
instruments,  see pages 30 through 31 under the caption "Risk  Management,"  and
Note 7 on  pages  42  through  45,  of  the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders,   which  portions  of  such  report  are  incorporated  herein  by
reference.

         COMPETITION
         -----------

         The banking services of AEB are subject to vigorous  competition in all
markets in which AEB operates. Competitors include local and international banks
whose assets often exceed those of AEB, other financial institutions  (including
certain other  subsidiaries of the Company) and, in certain cases,  governmental
agencies.  In some countries,  AEB may be one of the more substantial  financial
institutions offering banking services; in no country, however, is AEB dominant.

         REGULATION
         ----------

         AEB is a wholly-owned  direct  subsidiary of American  Express  Banking
Corp.  ("AEBC").  AEBC is a New York investment  company organized under Article
XII of the New York Banking Law and is a wholly-owned  direct  subsidiary of the
Company.  AEBC,




AEB and AEB's  global  network of offices  and  subsidiaries  are subject to the
consolidated   supervision  and  examination  of  the  New  York  State  Banking
Department  ("NYSBD")  pursuant to New York Banking Law.  AEBC does not directly
engage in banking activities.

         AEB's branches,  representative  offices and  subsidiaries are licensed
and regulated in the  jurisdictions in which they do business and are subject to
the same local  requirements  as other  competitors.  Within the United  States,
AEB's New York agency is  supervised  and  regularly  examined by the NYSBD.  In
addition,  the Florida Department of Banking and Finance supervises and examines
AEB's Miami agency,  the Board of Governors of the Federal  Reserve  System (the
"Federal  Reserve  Board")  regulates,  supervises  and  examines  AEBI  and the
California  Department of Financial  Institutions  supervises and examines AEB's
San Francisco  facility office. AEB Global Asset Management Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary of AEB that provides  investment advisory services to private banking
clients, is registered with the SEC as an investment advisor.

         Since  AEB does not do  business  in the  United  States  except  as an
incident to its activities outside the United States, the Company's  affiliation
with AEB neither  causes the Company to be subject to the provisions of the Bank
Holding  Company Act of 1956, as amended,  nor requires it to register as a bank
holding  company under the Federal  Reserve  Board's  Regulation Y. AEB is not a
member of the Federal Reserve System, is not subject to supervision by the FDIC,
and  is not  subject  to any of  the  restrictions  imposed  by the  Competitive
Equality  Banking  Act of 1987 other  than  anti-tie-in  rules  with  respect to
transactions involving products and services of certain of its affiliates.

         AEB is required to comply with the Federal Reserve  Board's  risk-based
capital  guidelines  and  complementary   leverage   constraint   applicable  to
state-chartered  banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System.  Pursuant
to the FDIC  Improvement  Act of 1991, the Federal  Reserve  Board,  among other
federal  banking  agencies,  adopted  regulations  defining  levels  of  capital
adequacy. Under these regulations, a bank is deemed to be well capitalized if it
maintains a Tier 1 risk-based  capital  ratio of at least 6.0  percent,  a total
risk-based  capital ratio of at least 10.0 percent,  and a leverage  ratio of at
least 5.0 percent.  Based on AEB's total risk-based capital and leverage ratios,
which are set forth on page 23,  AEB is  considered  to be well  capitalized  at
December 31, 1998.

         The  Company   has  taken  steps  to  ensure  that  AEB  remains   well
capitalized,  as defined by regulatory  guidelines.  In April 1998,  the Company
purchased $225 million of deferred tax assets from AEB,  thereby  reducing AEB's
nonqualifying assets and increasing its regulatory capital.

                                TRAVELERS CHEQUE
                                ----------------

         The Company,  through its Travelers Cheque unit, is a leading issuer of
travelers  cheques.  The Company is also expanding the scope of  its Money Order
and  Official  Check  products  in the  U.S.,  and  renewing  its  focus on  the
TravelFunds  Direct(SM) product, which provides  direct delivery of foreign bank
notes and Travelers Cheques in selected markets.




         The  American  Express(R)   Travelers  Cheque  ("Travelers  Cheque"  or
"Cheque")  is  sold  as a safe  and  convenient  alternative  to  currency.  The
Travelers Cheque, a negotiable instrument, has no expiration date and is payable
by the issuer in the  currency of issuance  when  presented  for the purchase of
goods and  services or for  redemption.  Travelers  Cheques are issued in eleven
currencies  both directly by the Company and through joint venture  companies in
which the Company  generally  holds an equity  interest.  In 1998, the Travelers
Cheque unit announced the issuance of a euro- denominated Travelers Cheque which
commenced in early 1999.

         American Express  Travelers Cheques are sold through a broad network of
outlets worldwide,  including travel offices of the Company,  its affiliates and
representatives,  travel agents,  commercial banks,  savings banks,  savings and
loan  associations,  credit unions and other  financial,  travel and  commercial
businesses.  The Company generally  compensates selling agents for their sale of
Travelers Cheques.

         The proceeds from sales of Travelers  Cheques issued by the Company are
invested  predominantly in highly-rated debt securities  consisting primarily of
intermediate- and long-term state and municipal  obligations.  The investment of
these proceeds is regulated by various state laws.

         Although  the Company  believes it is the leading  issuer of  travelers
checks, its growth in sales of this product has been declining over the past few
years. Consumers have a choice of many forms of competitive payment instruments,
including  other brands of travelers  checks,  cash,  credit and debit cards and
national  and  international  automated  teller  machine  networks.  The Company
expects  increasing  developments  in stored value cards,  smart cards and other
electronic forms of payment,  and plans to offer a range of new stored value and
other products in the future to compete in this area. The principal  competitive
factors  affecting the travelers check industry are (i) the  availability to the
consumer of other  forms of  payment;  (ii) the amount of the fee charged to the
consumer;  (iii) the  acceptability  of the  checks  throughout  the world as an
alternative  to  currency;  (iv) the  compensation  paid to,  and  frequency  of
settlement by, selling agents;  (v) the  accessibility  of travelers check sales
and refunds; (vi) the success of marketing and promotional campaigns;  and (vii)
the ability to service satisfactorily the check purchaser if the checks are lost
or stolen.  Other competitive  factors affecting stored value products generally
include (a) the quality and rate of  introduction  of stored  value  products of
competitors;  (b) the rate of consumer and merchant  acceptance of new products;
(c) the rate of deployment of card and payment systems worldwide; (d) the global
interoperability  of card and payment  systems;  (e) the relative  ability of an
issuer to control fraud;  and (f) the  development of  governmental  regulations
relating to stored value products.

         Travelers  Cheque sales and Travelers  Cheques  outstanding  tend to be
greatest each year in the summer months, peaking in the third quarter.





                               CORPORATE AND OTHER
                               -------------------

         The Balcor Company Holdings, Inc., an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary
of the Company,  and its subsidiaries,  formerly operating as a diversified real
estate  investment  and management  company,  discontinued  new commercial  real
estate  activities  in 1990 and began to liquidate  its portfolio of real estate
loans and  properties.  The  liquidation  was completed in 1998.  Balcor and its
subsidiaries  still  serve  as  general  partners  in  numerous  public  limited
partnerships that have not yet been liquidated.

         The Company uses  information  about its customers to develop  products
and services and to provide personal service.  Regulatory  activity in the areas
of privacy and data  protection  is growing  worldwide  and is  generally  being
driven  by  the  growth  of  technology  and  concomitant   concerns  about  the
potentially  rapid  and  widespread   dissemination  of  information,   and  the
implementation  of the European Union Data Protection  Directive,  which imposes
restrictions  on the  collection,  use and  processing  of  personal  data.  The
European  Directive  became  effective in October  1998 and  involves  potential
sanctions for  violations  which include the possible  disruption in the flow of
personal data from Europe and in the use of such data. The Company will continue
its efforts to vigilantly  safeguard the data entrusted to it in accordance with
applicable  law and its internal  data  protection  policies,  while  seeking to
properly collect and use data to achieve its business objectives.

         For a  discussion  of the  Company's  status  relating to the Year 2000
issue,  see pages 22 and 23 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders,
which discussion is incorporated herein by reference.

                               FOREIGN OPERATIONS
                               ------------------

         The Company derives a significant  portion of its revenues from the use
of the Card,  Travelers  Cheques and travel  services in  countries  outside the
United  States and  continues to broaden the use of these  products and services
outside the United States. Political and economic conditions in these countries,
including the availability of foreign exchange for the payment by the local card
issuer of obligations  arising out of local  Cardmembers'  spending outside such
country,  for the payment of card bills by  Cardmembers  who are billed in other
than their local  currency and for the  remittance  of the proceeds of Travelers
Cheque sales,  can have an effect on the  Company's  revenues.  Substantial  and
sudden devaluation of local Cardmembers'  currency can also affect their ability
to make payments to the local issuer of the card on account of spending  outside
the local country.  The major portion of AEB's banking revenues is from business
conducted in countries outside the United States. Some of the risks attendant to
those  operations  include  currency  fluctuations  and  changes  in  political,
economic and legal environments in each such country.

         As a result of its  foreign  operations,  the Company is exposed to the
possibility  that,  because of foreign  exchange rate  fluctuations,  assets and
liabilities denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar may be
realized in amounts  greater or lesser than the United States dollar  amounts at
which they are currently recorded in the Company's Consolidated





Financial  Statements.  Examples of transactions in which this may occur include
the purchase by  Cardmembers  of goods and services in a currency other than the
currency  in which they are  billed;  the sale in one  currency  of a  Travelers
Cheque denominated in a second currency;  foreign exchange positions held by AEB
as a consequence of its client-related foreign exchange trading operations; and,
in most  instances,  investments  in foreign  operations.  These  risks,  unless
properly  monitored and managed,  could have an adverse  effect on the Company's
operations.

         The Company's  policy in this area is generally to monitor  closely all
foreign  exchange  positions and to minimize  foreign exchange gains and losses,
for  example,  by  offsetting  foreign  currency  assets with  foreign  currency
liabilities, as in the case of foreign currency loans and receivables, which are
financed in the same currency.  An additional technique used to manage exposures
is the spot and forward purchase or sale of foreign currencies as a hedge of net
exposures in those currencies as, for example, in the case of the Cardmember and
Travelers Cheque transactions described above. Additionally,  Cardmembers may be
charged in United States dollars for their spending outside their local country.
The Company's  investments in foreign  operations are hedged by forward exchange
contracts or by identifiable transactions, where appropriate.

             IMPORTANT FACTORS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
             ------------------------------------------------------

         Various  forward-looking  statements  have  been made in this Form 10-K
Annual  Report.  Forward-looking  statements  may also be made in the  Company's
other  reports  filed under the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  in its press
releases and in other  documents.  In addition,  from time to time,  the Company
through its management may make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements are subject to risks and  uncertainties,  including those  identified
below,  which  could  cause  actual  results  to  differ  materially  from  such
statements. The words "believe", "expect", "anticipate", "optimistic", "intend",
"aim",  "will" or similar  expressions are intended to identify  forward-looking
statements.  Readers  are  cautioned  not  to  place  undue  reliance  on  these
forward-looking  statements,  which  speak only as of the date on which they are
made.  The Company  undertakes no  obligation  to update  publicly or revise any
forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from the Company's forward-looking  statements,  including the
Company's  financial  and other  goals,  include,  but are not  limited  to, the
following:

     o   The  Company's  inability  to  extend  the  value of the  American
         Express brand,  which  historically  has been  associated with the
         card and travel  businesses (e.g.,  perception of trust,  security
         and quality service),  to a broad range of financial  products and
         services in the financial services industry.  This could depend in
         part on the Company's  ability to manage the  potential  conflicts
         inherent in its growing multi-channel delivery systems.

     o   The  Company's  inability to succeed in its ongoing  reengineering
         efforts  and in  achieving  best-in-class  economics,  while  also
         maintaining high service levels.






     o   The  Company's  inability  to  successfully  create,  and increase
         distribution  channels  for,  financial,  travel,  card and  other
         products and services.

     o   The  Company's  inability  to  participate  in  payment  and other
         systems  material  to its  businesses  on a fair  and  competitive
         basis.

     o   The Company's  inability to successfully invest in, and compete at
         the  leading   edge  of,   technology   developments   across  all
         businesses,   e.g.,  transaction   processing,   data  management,
         customer  interactions  and  communications,  travel  reservations
         systems, stored value products,  multi-application smart cards and
         risk management systems.

     o   The  Company's  inability  to  adequately  address its Y2K issues,
         successfully  identify its systems containing two digit codes, the
         nature  and amount of  programming  required  to fix the  affected
         systems  and the costs of labor and  consultants  related  to such
         effort,  continue to have access to such resources and ensure that
         third parties that interface with the Company successfully address
         their Y2K issues.

     o   The  Company's  inability  to  successfully  modify  its  computer
         software  and  business   systems  to  ensure  proper  and  timely
         accommodation  of the European single currency in its business and
         operations.

     o   The Company's inability to successfully develop and implement 
         enterprise-wide interactive strategies.

     o   TRS'  inability to expand its overall  revenues,  which depends in
         part on its ability to increase  consumer and/or business spending
         and  borrowing on its credit and charge  Cards,  gain market share
         and develop new or enhanced products that capture greater share of
         customers' total spending on Cards issued on its network.

     o   TRS'  inability  to  enhance   significantly   its   international
         operations,  which  will  depend in part on its  ability to reduce
         expenses for re-investment in the international  business,  expand
         the proprietary and third party-issued Card businesses.

     o   TRS' inability to increase its network of merchants.

     o   TRS' inability to retain  Cardmembers in consumer lending products
         after low introductory rate periods have expired.

     o   TRS'  inability  to sustain  premium  discount  rates or  increase
         merchant  coverage,  both  of  which  will  depend  in part on its 
         ability to maintain a





         customer  base  that  appeals to  merchants  and to develop deeper 
         merchant  relationships  through  creation  of  new  products  and 
         services.

     o   The  inability  of TRS and AEB to manage  credit  risk  related to
         consumer debt, business loans and other credit exposures,  both in
         the United  States and abroad,  including  unseasoned  balances in
         TRS' lending portfolios, all of which could be affected by general
         political and economic  conditions,  including  interest rates and
         consumer credit trends,  the rate of bankruptcies and movements in
         currency valuations.

     o   The  inability of AXP  Advisors to maintain a growing  field force
         and to improve the performance of its mutual funds.

     o   A short-term  financial  market crash,  or a longer term financial
         market  decline  or  stagnation,  which  could  impact the sale of
         investment  products at AXP  Advisors  and the market value of AXP
         Advisors'  managed  assets,  resulting  in  lower  management  and
         distribution fees.

     o   The impact of changing  interest  rates,  which  could  affect AXP
         Advisors'  spreads  between  revenues from owned  investments  and
         benefits credited to clients fixed income accounts, TRS' borrowing
         costs and TRS' and AEB's return on lending products.

     o   Changes in laws or government regulations that either restrict the
         businesses of the Company,  or allow a wider range of institutions
         to compete in such  businesses,  e.g., banks being allowed to sell
         products  competing  with AXP Advisors,  non-banking  institutions
         selling bank products in competition with AEB, changes in tax laws
         affecting the  Company's  businesses,  regulatory  activity in the
         areas of customer privacy and data  protection.  See also pages 3,
         4, 14,  16,  19, 20 and 28  through  31 of this 10-K  Report for a
         discussion of various regulations affecting the Company.

     o   Global  developments  that could affect the  Company's  operations
         abroad,  such as political or economic  instability in key markets
         of the Company's  businesses or restrictions on  convertibility of
         certain currencies. See also pages 9 through 11, 27, 28, 31 and 32
         of this 10-K Report for a discussion of risks  relating to foreign
         operations.

     o   Competitive  pressures in all of the Company's  major  businesses,
         including  those  competitive  issues  referred  to on  pages 2, 5
         through 7, 9, 10,  12,  13, 15 through  19, 28 and 30 in this 10-K
         Report.

     o   Unforeseen litigation or compliance costs.






               SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR SERVICES
               ---------------------------------------------------

         Information  with  respect  to  the  Company's  segments,  geographical
operations  and  classes  of  similar  services  is set  forth in Note 15 to the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  of the Company,  which  appears on pages 53
through 54 of the Company's  1998 Annual Report to  Shareholders,  which Note is
incorporated herein by reference.

                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
                        ---------------------------------

         All of the executive officers of the Company as of March 24, 1999, none
of whom has any family relationship  with any other  and none of whom  became an
officer pursuant to any arrangement or understanding  with any other person, are
listed  below.  Each of such officers was elected to serve until the next annual
election  of officers or until his or her  successor  is elected and  qualified.
Each officer's age is indicated by the number in parentheses  next to his or her
name.

HARVEY GOLUB -              Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Chairman, TRS

         Mr. Golub (60) has been Chief  Executive  Officer of the Company  since
February 1993, Chairman of the Company since August 1993 and Chairman, TRS since
November 1991. Prior to February 1997 he had been Chief Executive Officer of TRS
since November 1991.


KENNETH I. CHENAULT -      President and Chief Operating Officer;
                           President and Chief Executive Officer, TRS

         Mr. Chenault (47) has been President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Company and President and Chief  Executive  Officer of TRS since  February 1997.
Prior to February 1997 he had been Vice  Chairman of the  Company  since January
1995.  Prior to May 1995, he had also been President, U.S.A. of TRS since August
1993.


RICHARD KARL GOELTZ -      Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer

         Mr. Goeltz (56) has been Vice Chairman and Chief  Financial  Officer of
the  Company  since  September  1996.  Prior  thereto,  he had been Group  Chief
Financial Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of NatWest Group.


JONATHAN S. LINEN -        Vice Chairman

         Mr. Linen (55) has been Vice Chairman of the Company since August 1993.






STEVEN W. ALESIO -        President, Small Business Services, TRS

         Mr. Alesio (44) has been President,  Small Business Services, TRS since
February 1996.  Prior thereto,  he had been Executive Vice President,  Corporate
Card, TRS since November 1993.


ANNE M. BUSQUET -         President, American Express Relationship Services, TRS

         Mrs. Busquet (49) has been President, American Express Relationship 
Services, TRS since October 1995.  Prior thereto, she had been Executive Vice 
President, Consumer Card Group since November 1993.


JAMES M. CRACCHIOLO -     President, International, TRS

         Mr.  Cracchiolo (40) has been President,  International,  TRS since May
1998. Prior thereto he had been President,  Global Network  Services,  TRS since
February  1996.  Prior  thereto  he had been  Senior  Vice  President,  Quality,
Reengineering and Business Strategy, TRS since August 1993.


URSULA F. FAIRBAIRN -     Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Quality

         Mrs. Fairbairn (56) has been Executive Vice President, Human Resources 
and Quality of the Company since December 1996.  Prior thereto, she had been 
Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Union Pacific Corporation.

EDWARD P. GILLIGAN -      President, Corporate Services, TRS

         Mr. Gilligan (39) has been  President,  Corporate  Services,  TRS since
February 1996.  Prior thereto,  he had been  Executive  Vice  President,  Travel
Management Services, TRS since June 1995. Prior thereto, he had been Senior Vice
President and General  Manager,  Eastern Region of Travel  Management  Services,
TRS.


JOHN D. HAYES -           Executive Vice President, Global Advertising

         Mr. Hayes (44) has been Executive Vice President, Global Advertising 
since May 1995.  Prior thereto, he had been President of Lowe & Partners/SMS.





DAVID C. HOUSE -          President, Establishment Services Worldwide, TRS

         Mr. House (49) has been President,  Establishment  Services  Worldwide,
TRS since  October 1995.  Prior  thereto,  he had been Senior Vice  President of
Sales and Field  Marketing for the United States  Establishment  Services  Group
since January 1993.


DAVID R. HUBERS -         President and Chief Executive Officer,
                          American Express Financial Corporation

         Mr. Hubers (56) has been President and Chief Executive Officer of 
American Express Financial Corporation since August 1993.


ALFRED F. KELLY, JR. -    President, Consumer Card Services Group, TRS

         Mr. Kelly (40) has been President,  Consumer Card Services  Group,  TRS
since  October  1998.  Prior thereto he had been  Executive  Vice  President and
General Manager of Consumer Marketing, TRS since February 1997. Prior thereto he
had been Executive Vice President of Customer Loyalty, TRS since September 1995.
Prior thereto he had been Senior Vice President,  Customer Information Services,
TRS.


ALLAN Z. LOREN -          Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer

         Mr. Loren (60) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Information 
Officer of the Company since May 1994. Prior thereto, he had been President and 
Chief Executive Officer of Galileo International.


LOUISE M. PARENT -        Executive Vice President and General Counsel

         Ms. Parent (48) has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel 
of the Company since May 1993.


THOMAS SCHICK -           Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs
                          and Communications

         Mr. Schick (52) has been Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs 
and Communications of the Company since March 1993.





JOHN A. WARD, III -       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
                          American Express Bank Ltd.;
                          President, Travelers Cheque Group

         Mr. Ward (52) has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, American 
Express  Bank  Ltd.  since  January  1996.  Since  August  1997 he has also been
President of Travelers Cheque Group.  Prior thereto, he had been Executive  Vice
President  of Chase  Manhattan  Bank since  September  1993 and Chief  Executive
Officer of Chase BankCard Services since July 1993.

                                    EMPLOYEES
                                    ---------

         The Company had approximately 85,000 employees on December 31, 1998.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

         The Company's  headquarters  is in a 51-story,  2.2 million square foot
building located in lower  Manhattan,  which also serves as the headquarters for
TRS and AEB. This  building,  which is on land leased from the Battery Park City
Authority  for a term  expiring in 2069,  is one of five office  buildings  in a
complex known as the World Financial  Center.  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. is
also headquartered at, and owns 52% of, the building.

         Other principal locations of TRS include:  the American Express Service
Centers  in  Fort  Lauderdale,  Florida;  Phoenix,  Arizona;  Greensboro,  North
Carolina  and  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah;  the  American   Express  Canada,   Inc.
headquarters in Markham,  Ontario, Canada, all of which are owned by the Company
or its subsidiaries.  AEFC's principal  locations are its headquarters,  the IDS
Tower,  a portion of which the company  leases  until 2002,  and its  Operations
Center, which the company owns; both are in Minneapolis, Minnesota. AXP Advisors
also owns Oak Ridge  Conference  Center,  a  training  facility  and  conference
center, in Chaska, Minnesota.

         AEFC has  entered  into a contract  with a  developer  to  construct  a
30-story office tower in Minneapolis which should be ready for initial occupancy
in February  2000. The new tower will become AEFC's  headquarters.  AEFC's lease
term is for 20 years with several options to extend the term.

         AEFC  is  also  building  a  new  Client  Service  Center  in  downtown
Minneapolis.  Construction  should  start July 1999 and the  building  should be
ready for occupancy in June 2002.

         Generally,  the Company and its  subsidiaries  lease the premises  they
occupy in other  locations.  Facilities owned or occupied by the Company and its
subsidiaries  are  believed to be adequate  for the  purposes for which they are
used and are well maintained.





ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         The Company and its  subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal and
arbitration  proceedings  concerning  matters  arising  in  connection  with the
conduct of their  respective  business  activities.  The Company believes it has
meritorious  defenses  to each of these  actions  and  intends  to  defend  them
vigorously.  The Company  believes that it is not a party to, nor are any of its
properties  the subject of, any pending legal or arbitration  proceedings  which
would have a material  adverse  effect on the Company's  consolidated  financial
condition,  although  it is possible  that the  outcome of any such  proceedings
could  have a material  impact on the  Company's  net  income in any  particular
period. Certain legal proceedings involving the Company are set forth below.

         On December 13, 1996, an action  entitled LESA  BENACQUISTO  AND DANIEL
BENACQUISTO  V. IDS LIFE  INSURANCE  COMPANY  ("IDS Life") AND AMERICAN  EXPRESS
FINANCIAL  CORPORATION  was  commenced in Minnesota  state court.  The action is
brought by individuals who replaced an existing IDS Life insurance policy with a
new IDS Life policy.  The plaintiffs  purport to represent a class consisting of
all persons who replaced  existing IDS Life  policies with new IDS Life policies
from and after January 1, 1985.

         The  complaint  puts at  issue  various  alleged  sales  practices  and
misrepresentations,  alleged breaches of fiduciary duties and alleged violations
of consumer fraud statutes. Plaintiffs seek damages in an unspecified amount and
also seek to establish a claims  resolution  facility for the  determination  of
individual  issues.  IDS Life  and AEFC  filed an  answer  to the  complaint  on
February 18, 1997,  denying the  allegations.  A second action,  entitled ARNOLD
MORK,  ISABELLA MORK,  RONALD  MELCHERT AND SUSAN MELCHERT V. IDS LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY AND AMERICAN  EXPRESS  FINANCIAL  CORPORATION  was commenced in the same
court on March  21,  1997.  In  addition  to  claims  that are  included  in the
Benacquisto  lawsuit,  the second  action  includes  an  allegation  of improper
replacement of an existing IDS Life annuity contract. It seeks similar relief to
the initial lawsuit.

         On October 13, 1998,  an action  entitled  RICHARD W. AND  ELIZABETH J.
THORESEN V. AMERICAN  EXPRESS  FINANCIAL  CORPORATION,  AMERICAN  CENTURION LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, AMERICAN ENTERPRISE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, AMERICAN PARTNERS
LIFE  INSURANCE  COMPANY,  IDS LIFE  INSURANCE  COMPANY  AND IDS LIFE  INSURANCE
COMPANY OF NEW YORK was also commenced in Minnesota state court.  The action was
brought by individuals who purchased an annuity in a qualified plan. They allege
that the sale of annuities in tax-deferred  contributory  retirement  investment
plans (e.g., IRAs) is never  appropriate.  The plaintiffs purport to represent a
class consisting of all persons who made similar purchases.  The plaintiffs seek
damages in an  unspecified  amount,  including  restitution  of  allegedly  lost
investment earnings and restoration of contract values.

         The Company commenced an action, AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY V. THE UNITED
STATES,  on  September  16, 1997 in the United  States  Court of Federal  Claims
seeking a refund  from the  United  States of  Federal  income  taxes paid (plus
related  interest)  for the year 1987.  The Company  contends  that the Internal
Revenue  Service  abused its  discretion  by denying  the




Company's  request to include  annual fees from  Cardmembers  in taxable  income
ratably  over the  twelve-month  period to which the fees relate  rather than in
full at the time they are billed.  The defendant  filed an answer on January 16,
1998, and pre-trial  discovery  proceedings  are now underway.  If the Company's
position is sustained,  it would receive  interest on $198,649,152 of taxes paid
for 1987 that should have been deferred to a subsequent period.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's  security  holders
during the last quarter of its fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.


                                     PART II
                                     -------

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         The principal  market for the  Company's  Common Shares is The New York
Stock  Exchange.  Its Common  Shares  are also  listed on the  Boston,  Chicago,
Pacific,  London,  Swiss,  Dusseldorf,   Frankfurt,  Paris  and  Brussels  Stock
Exchanges.  The Company had 51,597 common shareholders of record at December 31,
1998. For price and dividend information with respect to such Common Shares, see
Note 18 to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on page 55 of the Company's
1998  Annual  Report  to  Shareholders,  which  Note is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The  "Consolidated   Five-Year  Summary  of  Selected  Financial  Data"
appearing on page 57 of the  Company's  1998 Annual  Report to  Shareholders  is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

         The  information  set  forth  under  the  heading   "Financial  Review"
appearing  on pages  22  through  31 of the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
          RISK

         The information set forth under the heading "Risk Management" appearing
on pages 30 through 31 of the Company's  1998 Annual Report to  Shareholders  is
incorporated herein by reference.




ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The  "Consolidated  Financial  Statements",  the "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements" and the "Report of Ernst & Young LLP Independent Auditors"
appearing  on pages  32  through  56 of the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         Not Applicable.

                                    PART III
                                    --------

ITEMS 10, 11, 12 and 13.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
                           THE COMPANY; EXECUTIVE
                           COMPENSATION; SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
                           CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                           MANAGEMENT; CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
                           RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         The Company filed with the SEC,  within 120 days after the close of its
last fiscal year, a definitive  proxy statement dated March 11, 1999 pursuant to
Regulation 14A, which involves the election of directors. The following portions
of such proxy statement are incorporated herein by reference:  pages 2 through 4
under the heading  "The  Shares  Voting,"  pages 5 through 7 under the  headings
"Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers" and "Security Ownership
of Named Executives" (excluding the paragraph under the heading "Share Ownership
Guidelines for Directors" appearing on pages 6 and 7), pages 11 through 13 under
the heading  "Directors'  Fees and Other  Compensation,"  pages 13  beginning at
"Election of Directors" through 34 ending at "Selection of Auditors"  (excluding
the  portions  under  the  headings,  "Board  Compensation  Committee  Report on
Executive Compensation" appearing on pages 16 through 21 and "Performance Graph"
appearing on page 28). In addition, the Company has provided,  under the caption
"Executive  Officers  of  the  Company"  at  pages  35  through  38  above,  the
information regarding executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation
S-K.

                                     PART IV
                                     -------

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K

     (a)  1.  Financial Statements:
              ---------------------

              See Index to Financial Statements on page F-1 hereof.




          2.  Financial Statement Schedules:
              ------------------------------

              See Index to Financial Statements on page F-1 hereof.

          3.  Exhibits:
              ---------

              See Exhibit Index on pages E-1 through E-5 hereof.

      (b) Reports on Form 8-K:

          Form 8-K,  dated  October 26, 1998,  Item 5,  reporting  the Company's
          earnings for the quarter ended September 30, 1998.

          Form 8-K,  dated  January 25, 1999,  Item 5,  reporting  the Company's
          earnings for the quarter and year ended December 31, 1998.

          Form  8-K,  dated  February  3,  1999,   Item  5,  reporting   certain
          information  from speeches  presented by Harvey  Golub,  the Company's
          Chairman  and  Chief  Executive   Officer  and  James  M.  Cracchiolo,
          President,  International TRS, to the financial  community on February
          3, 1999.

          Form 8-K, dated  February 22, 1999,  Item 5, reporting the election of
          Robert L. Crandall to the Board of Directors of the Company.






                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934,  the  Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                   AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY


March 29, 1999                                     By /s/ Richard Karl Goeltz 
                                                      --------------------------
                                                       Richard Karl Goeltz
                                                       Vice Chairman and
                                                       Chief Financial Officer

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
Company and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

                                                By  /s/ Robert L. Crandall
                                                   ----------------------------
                                                   Robert L. Crandall
                                                   Director

By  /s/ Harvey Golub                            By  /s/ Charles W. Duncan, Jr.
    ----------------------------                   ----------------------------
    Harvey Golub                                   Charles W. Duncan, Jr.
    Chairman, Chief Executive                      Director
    Officer and Director

By  /s/ Kenneth I. Chenault                     By  /s/ Beverly Sills Greenough
    ----------------------------                   ----------------------------
    Kenneth I. Chenault                            Beverly Sills Greenough
    President, Chief Operating                     Director
    Officer and Director

By  /s/ Richard Karl Goeltz                     By  /s/ F. Ross Johnson
    ----------------------------                   ----------------------------
    Richard Karl Goeltz                            F. Ross Johnson
    Vice Chairman and                              Director
    Chief Financial Officer

By  /s/ Daniel T. Henry                         By  /s/ Vernon E. Jordan, Jr.
    ----------------------------                   ----------------------------
    Daniel T. Henry                                Vernon E. Jordan, Jr.
    Senior Vice President                          Director
    and Comptroller

By  /s/ Daniel F. Akerson                       By  /s/ Jan Leschly
    ----------------------------                   ----------------------------
    Daniel F. Akerson                              Jan Leschly
    Director                                       Director

By  /s/ Anne L. Armstrong                       By  /s/ Drew Lewis
    ----------------------------                   ----------------------------
    Anne L. Armstrong                              Drew Lewis
    Director                                       Director

By  /s/ Edwin L. Artzt                          By  /s/ Richard A. McGinn
    ----------------------------                   ----------------------------
    Edwin L. Artzt                                 Richard A. McGinn
    Director                                       Director

By  /s/ William G. Bowen                        By  /s/ Frank P. Popoff
    ----------------------------                   ----------------------------
    William G. Bowen                               Frank P. Popoff
    Director                                       Director

March 29, 1999








         All other schedules for American Express Company and subsidiaries  have
been  omitted  since the required  information  is not present or not present in
amounts  sufficient  to require  submission  of the  schedule,  or  because  the
information required is included in the respective financial statements or notes
thereto.

         The  consolidated  financial  statements  of American  Express  Company
(including the report of independent  auditors) listed in the above index, which
are included in the Annual Report to  Shareholders  for the year ended  December
31, 1998, are hereby incorporated by reference.  With the exception of the pages
listed in the above index, unless otherwise  incorporated by reference elsewhere
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,  the 1998 Annual Report to  Shareholders  is
not to be deemed filed as part of this report.



                                      F-1




                                                                EXHIBIT 23

                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


         We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of  American  Express  Company of our report  dated  February  4, 1999
(hereinafter  referred to as our Report),  included in the 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders of American Express Company.

         Our audits  included  the  financial  statement  schedules  of American
Express Company listed in Item 14(a).  These schedules are the responsibility of
the Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on
our audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedules referred to above,
when considered in relation to the basic financial  statements taken as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

         We also consent to  the incorporation  by reference in the Registration
Statements (Form S-8 No. 2-46918,  No. 2-59230,  No. 2-64285,  No. 2-73954,  No.
2-89680, No. 33-01771,  No. 33-02980,  No. 33-28721, No. 33-33552, No. 33-36422,
No. 33-48629,  No. 33-62124,  No. 33-65008,  No. 33-53801,  No.  333-12683,  No.
333-41779, No. 333-52699 and No. 333-73111;  Form S-3 No. 2-89469, No. 33-43268,
No. 33-50997, No. 333-32525, No. 333-45445, No. 333-47085 and No. 333-55761) and
in the  related  Prospecti  of  our  Report  with  respect  to the  consolidated
financial  statements  and schedules of American  Express  Company  included and
incorporated  by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1998.



                                                       /s/ Ernst & Young LLP
                                                       New York, New York
                                                       March 26, 1999










                                        F-2





(A)   1998  includes  pretax  income of $106  million  ($78  million  after-tax)
      comprising a $60 million ($39 million after-tax) gain from sales of common
      stock of First Data  Corporation  and $46 million ($39 million  after-tax)
      preferred  stock  dividend  based on earnings from Lehman  Brothers.  1996
      includes a pretax gain of $480 million  ($300  million  after-tax)  on the
      exchange  of DECS  (Debt  Exchangeable  for  Common  Stock) for FDC common
      stock.


See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of the Company on page F-6.





                                              F-3




See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of the Company on page F-6.

                                                            F-4





SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:
Cash paid for interest (net of amounts  capitalized) in 1998, 1997, and 1996 was
$81 million, $88 million and $216 million,  respectively.  Net cash received for
income taxes was $145  million for 1998;  net cash paid for income taxes was $98
million for 1997; net cash received for income taxes was $296 million for 1996.




                                                            F-5




             AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

           SCHEDULE I--CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY

             NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY

                              (Parent Company Only)

1.  Principles of Consolidation

     The  accompanying  financial  statements  include the  accounts of American
     Express  Company and on an equity basis its  subsidiaries  and  affiliates.
     These  financial   statements  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the
     consolidated  financial  statements  of the Company.  Certain  prior year's
     amounts  have  been   reclassified   to  conform  to  the  current   year's
     presentation.



     Aggregate  annual  maturities  of long-term  debt for the five years ending
     December 31, 2003 are as follows  (millions):  1999, $8; 2000,  $163; 2001,
     $305; 2002, $0; 2003, $0.

3.   Intercompany  debentures consist solely of Junior  Subordinated  Debentures
     issued  to  American  Express  Company  Capital  Trust  I,  a  wholly-owned
     subsidiary  of  the  Company.  See  Note 5 to  the  Consolidated  Financial
     Statements on page 41 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to  Shareholders,
     which Note is incorporated herein by reference.


                                    F-6






(a)      Before recoveries on accounts previously written-off, which are 
         credited to income (millions): 1998--$231, 1997--$237 and 1996--$232.








                                           F-7





                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

The  following  exhibits  are  filed as part of this  Annual  Report  or,  where
indicated,  were  heretofore  filed and are  hereby  incorporated  by  reference
(*indicates  exhibits  electronically filed here with.)  Exhibits  numbered 10.1
through 10.14 and 10.23 through 10.32 are management  contracts or  compensatory
plans or arrangements.

3.1         Company's Restated  Certificate of Incorporation  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's  Registration  Statement
            on Form S-3, dated July 31, 1997 (Commission File No. 333-32525)).

3.2         Company's   By-Laws,   as  amended   through   February   23,  1998
            (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Company's  Annual
            Report on Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-7657)  for the fiscal
            year ended December 31, 1997).

4           The  instruments  defining the rights of holders of long-term debt
            securities  of  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  are  omitted
            pursuant to Section  (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
            The Company hereby agrees to furnish  copies of these  instruments
            to the SEC upon request.

10.1        American Express Company 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended
            and  restated  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
            Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  (Commission  File No.
            1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 1996).

10.2        American   Express   Company  1998  Incentive   Compensation   Plan
            (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.4  of  the  Company's
            Registration  Statement on Form S-8, dated May 15, 1998 (Commission
            File No. 333-52699)).

10.3        American Express Company Deferred  Compensation Plan for Directors,
            as amended  effective July 28, 1997  (incorporated  by reference to
            Exhibit  10.1  of the  Company's  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q
            (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

10.4        Description  of  American  Express  Pay for  Performance  Deferral
            Program   (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.5  of  the
            Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657)
            for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

10.5        American  Express  Company 1983 Stock Purchase  Assistance  Plan, as
            amended  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Company's
            Annual  Report on Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-7657)  for the
            fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).

                                         E-1






10.6         American   Express  Company   Retirement   Plan  for   Non-Employee
             Directors,  as amended  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12
             of the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.
             1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).

10.7         Certificate of Amendment of the American Express Company Retirement
             Plan for Non-Employee  Directors dated March 21, 1996 (incorporated
             by reference to Exhibit  10.11 of the  Company's  Annual  Report on
             Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-7657) for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1995).

10.8         American  Express Key  Executive  Life  Insurance  Plan, as amended
             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Company's Annual
             Report on Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-7657)  for the fiscal
             year ended December 31, 1991).

10.9         American   Express  Key  Employee   Charitable  Award  Program  for
             Education  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.13  of the
             Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission File No. 1-7657)
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990).

10.10        American Express Directors'  Charitable Award Program (incorporated
             by reference to Exhibit  10.14 of the  Company's  Annual  Report on
             Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-7657) for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1990).

10.11        Description  of separate  pension  arrangement  and loan  agreement
             between the Company and Harvey Golub  (incorporated by reference to
             Exhibit 10.17 of Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission
             File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).

10.12        Shearson  Lehman Brothers  Capital  Partners I Amended and Restated
             Agreement  of Limited  Partnership  (incorporated  by  reference to
             Exhibit 10.18 of Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission
             File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).

10.13        Shearson  Lehman  Hutton  Capital  Partners  II,  L.P.  Amended and
             Restated   Agreement  of  Limited   Partnership   (incorporated  by
             reference to Exhibit 10.19 of Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
             (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31,
             1988).

10.14        American Express Company  Salary/Bonus  Deferral Plan (incorporated
             by reference to Exhibit  10.20 of Company's  Annual  Report on Form
             10-K  (Commission  File  No.  1-7657)  for the  fiscal  year  ended
             December 31, 1988).


                                          E-2


10.15        Restated and Amended Agreement of Tenants-In-Common,  dated May 27,
             1994,  by and  among  the  Company,  American  Express  Bank  Ltd.,
             American  Express Travel Related  Services  Company,  Inc.,  Lehman
             Brothers  Inc.,  Lehman  Government  Securities,  Inc.  and  Lehman
             Commercial Paper Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.1 of Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.'s  Transition Report on Form
             10-K  (Commission  File No. 1-9466) for the transition  period from
             January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.16        Tax  Allocation  Agreement,  dated  May 27,  1994,  between  Lehman
             Brothers  Holdings Inc. and the Company  (incorporated by reference
             to  Exhibit  10.2 of Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc.'s  Transition
             Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the transition
             period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.17        Intercompany Agreement, dated May 27, 1994, between the Company and
             Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.3 of Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.'s  Transition Report on Form
             10-K 1994  (Commission  File No. 1-9466) for the transition  period
             from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.18        Purchase and  Exchange  Agreement,  dated April 28,  1994,  between
             Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc. and the Company  (incorporated  by
             reference  to  Exhibit  10.29 of Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc.'s
             Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the
             transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.19        Registration  Rights Agreement,  dated as of May 27, 1994,  between
             the Company and Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc.  (incorporated  by
             reference  to  Exhibit  10.30 of Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc.'s
             Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the
             transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.20        Option  Agreement,  dated May 27,  1994,  by and among the Company,
             American  Express  Bank  Ltd.,   American  Express  Travel  Related
             Services  Company,  Inc.,  Lehman  Brothers  Holdings Inc.,  Lehman
             Brothers  Inc.,  Lehman  Government  Securities,  Inc.  and  Lehman
             Commercial Paper Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.31 of Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.'s Transition Report on Form
             10-K  (Commission  File No. 1-9466) for the transition  period from
             January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.21        Letter Agreement,  dated January 30, 1998,  between the Company and
             Nippon Life Insurance Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.24 of the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File
             No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997).



                                            E-3



10.22        Asset Purchase  Agreement  dated as of March 12, 1993 between Smith
             Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Incorporated,  Primerica Corporation and
             Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.16 of Shearson Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.'s Annual Report on
             Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-9466) for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1992).

10.23        American   Express  Company  1993  Directors'   Stock  Option  Plan
             (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  28.2  of  the  Company's
             Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
             quarter ended March 31, 1993).

10.24        American Express Senior Executive  Severance Plan  (incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
             10-Q  (Commission  File No.  1-7657) for the quarter ended June 30,
             1994).

10.25        Amendment  of American  Express  Senior  Executive  Severance  Plan
             (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  of  the  Company's
             Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
             quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.26        Amendment of American  Express Company Key Executive Life Insurance
             Plan  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the  Company's
             Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
             quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.27        Amendment of American  Express Company  Salary/Bonus  Deferral Plan
             (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.4  of  the  Company's
             Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
             quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.28        Amendment of Long-Term Incentive Awards under the American Express 
             Company 1979 and 1989 Long-Term  Incentive Plans (incorporated by 
             reference to  Exhibit  10.6 of the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on
             Form 10-Q (Commission  File No.  1-7657) for the quarter ended  
             September 30, 1994).

10.29        Amendments  of (i)  Long-Term  Incentive  Awards under the American
             Express Company 1979 and 1989 Long-Term  Incentive Plans,  (ii) the
             American  Express  Senior  Executive   Severance  Plan,  (iii)  the
             American  Express  Supplemental  Retirement Plan, (iv) the American
             Express  Salary/Bonus  Deferral Plan, (v) the American  Express Key
             Executive  Life  Insurance  Plan and (vi) the IDS  Current  Service
             Deferred  Compensation  Plan  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.37 of the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File
             No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997).



                                          E-4



10.30        IDS Current Service  Deferred  Compensation  Plan  (incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.42 of the  Company's  Annual Report on Form
             10-K  (Commission  File  No.  1-7657)  for the  fiscal  year  ended
             December 31, 1994).

10.31        Amended and Restated American Express Supplemental  Retirement Plan
             (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  of  the  Company's
             Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
             quarter ended March 31, 1995).

10.32        American Express  Directors' Stock Plan  (incorporated by reference
             to Exhibit 4.4 of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8,
             dated December 9, 1997 (Commission File No. 333-41779)).

10.33        Agreement dated February 27, 1995 between the Company and Berkshire
             Hathaway  Inc.  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.43 of the
             Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission File No. 1-7657)
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

10.34        Agreement  dated July 20, 1995  between  the Company and  Berkshire
             Hathaway Inc. and its  subsidiaries  (incorporated  by reference to
             Exhibit  10.1  of the  Company's  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q
             (Commission  File No.  1-7657) for the quarter ended  September 30,
             1995).

*12.1        Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

*12.2        Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and 
             Preferred Share Dividends.

*13          Portions of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders that 
             are incorporated herein by reference.

*21          Subsidiaries of the Company.

*23          Consent of Ernst & Young LLP (contained on page F-2 of this Annual 
             Report on Form 10-K).

*27          Financial Data Schedule.








                                   E-5



================================================================================



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549




                             -----------------------





                                    FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 Commission File No. 1-7657



                            ------------------------




                            American Express Company
                 (Exact name of Company as specified in charter)


                                 E X H I B I T S


================================================================================



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

The  following  exhibits  are  filed as part of this  Annual  Report  or,  where
indicated,  were  heretofore  filed and are  hereby  incorporated  by  reference
(*indicates  exhibits  electronically  filed herewith.)  Exhibits  numbered 10.1
through 10.14 and 10.23 through 10.32 are management  contracts or  compensatory
plans or arrangements.

3.1         Company's Restated  Certificate of Incorporation  (incorporated by
            reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's  Registration  Statement
            on Form S-3, dated July 31, 1997 (Commission File No. 333-32525)).

3.2         Company's   By-Laws,   as  amended   through   February   23,  1998
            (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Company's  Annual
            Report on Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-7657)  for the fiscal
            year ended December 31, 1997).

4           The  instruments  defining the rights of holders of long-term debt
            securities  of  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  are  omitted
            pursuant to Section  (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
            The Company hereby agrees to furnish  copies of these  instruments
            to the SEC upon request.

10.1        American Express Company 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended
            and  restated  (incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
            Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q  (Commission  File No.
            1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 1996).

10.2        American   Express   Company  1998  Incentive   Compensation   Plan
            (incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.4  of  the  Company's
            Registration  Statement on Form S-8, dated May 15, 1998 (Commission
            File No. 333-52699)).

10.3        American Express Company Deferred  Compensation Plan for Directors,
            as amended  effective July 28, 1997  (incorporated  by reference to
            Exhibit  10.1  of the  Company's  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q
            (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).

10.4        Description  of  American  Express  Pay for  Performance  Deferral
            Program   (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.5  of  the
            Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657)
            for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

10.5        American  Express  Company 1983 Stock Purchase  Assistance  Plan, as
            amended  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Company's
            Annual  Report on Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-7657)  for the
            fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).


                                         E-1


10.6         American   Express  Company   Retirement   Plan  for   Non-Employee
             Directors,  as amended  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12
             of the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.
             1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).

10.7         Certificate of Amendment of the American Express Company Retirement
             Plan for Non-Employee  Directors dated March 21, 1996 (incorporated
             by reference to Exhibit  10.11 of the  Company's  Annual  Report on
             Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-7657) for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1995).

10.8         American  Express Key  Executive  Life  Insurance  Plan, as amended
             (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Company's Annual
             Report on Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-7657)  for the fiscal
             year ended December 31, 1991).

10.9         American   Express  Key  Employee   Charitable  Award  Program  for
             Education  (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.13  of the
             Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission File No. 1-7657)
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990).

10.10        American Express Directors'  Charitable Award Program (incorporated
             by reference to Exhibit  10.14 of the  Company's  Annual  Report on
             Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-7657) for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1990).

10.11        Description  of separate  pension  arrangement  and loan  agreement
             between the Company and Harvey Golub  (incorporated by reference to
             Exhibit 10.17 of Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission
             File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).

10.12        Shearson  Lehman Brothers  Capital  Partners I Amended and Restated
             Agreement  of Limited  Partnership  (incorporated  by  reference to
             Exhibit 10.18 of Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission
             File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).

10.13        Shearson  Lehman  Hutton  Capital  Partners  II,  L.P.  Amended and
             Restated   Agreement  of  Limited   Partnership   (incorporated  by
             reference to Exhibit 10.19 of Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
             (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31,
             1988).

10.14        American Express Company  Salary/Bonus  Deferral Plan (incorporated
             by reference to Exhibit  10.20 of Company's  Annual  Report on Form
             10-K  (Commission  File  No.  1-7657)  for the  fiscal  year  ended
             December 31, 1988).


                                          E-2


10.15        Restated and Amended Agreement of Tenants-In-Common,  dated May 27,
             1994,  by and  among  the  Company,  American  Express  Bank  Ltd.,
             American  Express Travel Related  Services  Company,  Inc.,  Lehman
             Brothers  Inc.,  Lehman  Government  Securities,  Inc.  and  Lehman
             Commercial Paper Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.1 of Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.'s  Transition Report on Form
             10-K  (Commission  File No. 1-9466) for the transition  period from
             January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.16        Tax  Allocation  Agreement,  dated  May 27,  1994,  between  Lehman
             Brothers  Holdings Inc. and the Company  (incorporated by reference
             to  Exhibit  10.2 of Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc.'s  Transition
             Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the transition
             period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.17        Intercompany Agreement, dated May 27, 1994, between the Company and
             Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.3 of Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.'s  Transition Report on Form
             10-K 1994  (Commission  File No. 1-9466) for the transition  period
             from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.18        Purchase and  Exchange  Agreement,  dated April 28,  1994,  between
             Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc. and the Company  (incorporated  by
             reference  to  Exhibit  10.29 of Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc.'s
             Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the
             transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.19        Registration  Rights Agreement,  dated as of May 27, 1994,  between
             the Company and Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc.  (incorporated  by
             reference  to  Exhibit  10.30 of Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc.'s
             Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the
             transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.20        Option  Agreement,  dated May 27,  1994,  by and among the Company,
             American  Express  Bank  Ltd.,   American  Express  Travel  Related
             Services  Company,  Inc.,  Lehman  Brothers  Holdings Inc.,  Lehman
             Brothers  Inc.,  Lehman  Government  Securities,  Inc.  and  Lehman
             Commercial Paper Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.31 of Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.'s Transition Report on Form
             10-K  (Commission  File No. 1-9466) for the transition  period from
             January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.21        Letter Agreement,  dated January 30, 1998,  between the Company and
             Nippon Life Insurance Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.24 of the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File
             No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997).



                                            E-3



10.22        Asset Purchase  Agreement  dated as of March 12, 1993 between Smith
             Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Incorporated,  Primerica Corporation and
             Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.16 of Shearson Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.'s Annual Report on
             Form 10-K  (Commission  File No.  1-9466) for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1992).

10.23        American   Express  Company  1993  Directors'   Stock  Option  Plan
             (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  28.2  of  the  Company's
             Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
             quarter ended March 31, 1993).

10.24        American Express Senior Executive  Severance Plan  (incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
             10-Q  (Commission  File No.  1-7657) for the quarter ended June 30,
             1994).

10.25        Amendment  of American  Express  Senior  Executive  Severance  Plan
             (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  of  the  Company's
             Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
             quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.26        Amendment of American  Express Company Key Executive Life Insurance
             Plan  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the  Company's
             Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
             quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.27        Amendment of American  Express Company  Salary/Bonus  Deferral Plan
             (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.4  of  the  Company's
             Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
             quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.28        Amendment of Long-Term Incentive Awards under the American Express 
             Company 1979 and 1989 Long-Term  Incentive Plans (incorporated by 
             reference to  Exhibit  10.6 of the  Company's  Quarterly  Report on
             Form 10-Q (Commission  File No.  1-7657) for the quarter ended  
             September 30, 1994).

10.29        Amendments  of (i)  Long-Term  Incentive  Awards under the American
             Express Company 1979 and 1989 Long-Term  Incentive Plans,  (ii) the
             American  Express  Senior  Executive   Severance  Plan,  (iii)  the
             American  Express  Supplemental  Retirement Plan, (iv) the American
             Express  Salary/Bonus  Deferral Plan, (v) the American  Express Key
             Executive  Life  Insurance  Plan and (vi) the IDS  Current  Service
             Deferred  Compensation  Plan  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.37 of the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File
             No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997).



                                          E-4



10.30        IDS Current Service  Deferred  Compensation  Plan  (incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.42 of the  Company's  Annual Report on Form
             10-K  (Commission  File  No.  1-7657)  for the  fiscal  year  ended
             December 31, 1994).

10.31        Amended and Restated American Express Supplemental  Retirement Plan
             (incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.1  of  the  Company's
             Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the
             quarter ended March 31, 1995).

10.32        American Express  Directors' Stock Plan  (incorporated by reference
             to Exhibit 4.4 of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8,
             dated December 9, 1997 (Commission File No. 333-41779)).

10.33        Agreement dated February 27, 1995 between the Company and Berkshire
             Hathaway  Inc.  (incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.43 of the
             Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission File No. 1-7657)
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

10.34        Agreement  dated July 20, 1995  between  the Company and  Berkshire
             Hathaway Inc. and its  subsidiaries  (incorporated  by reference to
             Exhibit  10.1  of the  Company's  Quarterly  Report  on  Form  10-Q
             (Commission  File No.  1-7657) for the quarter ended  September 30,
             1995).

*12.1        Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

*12.2        Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and 
             Preferred Share Dividends.

*13          Portions of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders that 
             are incorporated herein by reference.

*21          Subsidiaries of the Company.

*23          Consent of Ernst & Young LLP (contained on page F-2 of this Annual 
             Report on Form 10-K).

*27          Financial Data Schedule.








                                   E-5

