Item 1.  Business





OVERVIEW




, SO


and NOx than the average rates of the U.S. electric power industry with approximately 97% of its 2012 generation, measured by mwh produced, coming from renewables, nuclear and natural gas-fired facilities.  Certain environmental attributes of NEE's electric generating facilities, such as renewable energy credits, emissions reductions, offsets, allowances and the avoided emission of GHG pollutants, have been or likely will be sold or transferred to third parties, who are solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes.



NEE was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida and conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Florida Power & Light Company (hereafter, FPL) and NextEra Energy Resources, LLC (hereafter, NEER).  NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. (hereafter, NEECH), another wholly-owned subsidiary of NEE, owns and provides funding for NEER's and NEE's other operating subsidiaries, other than FPL and its subsidiaries.  NEE's two principal businesses also constitute NEE's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes.



FPL is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in Florida.  FPL is the largest electric utility in the state of Florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S. based on retail mwh sales.  FPL is vertically integrated, with approximately 24,100 mw of generating capacity as of December 31, 2012.  FPL's investments in its infrastructure since 2001, such as modernizing less efficient generating plants to produce more energy with less fuel and fewer air emissions, and upgrading its transmission and distribution systems to deliver service reliability that is the best of the Florida investor-owned utilities, have provided significant benefits to FPL's customers, all while providing residential and commercial bills that were among the lowest in Florida and below the national average based on a rate per kwh as of July 2012.  With approximately 95% of its power generation coming from natural gas, nuclear and solar, FPL is also one of the cleanest electric utilities in the nation.  Based on 2012 information, FPL's emissions rates for CO2, SO2and NOx were 29%, 91% and 67% lower, respectively, than the average rates of the U.S. electric power industry.



NEER is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the U.S., with over 18,100 mw of generating capacity across 24 states and 4 Canadian provinces as of December 31, 2012.  NEER produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources, including wind and solar.  NEER also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities, participates in natural gas production and pipeline infrastructure development and owns a retail electricity provider.











NEECH's other business activities are primarily conducted through NEET and FPL FiberNet.  NEET conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Lone Star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in Texas, and NHT, a rate-regulated transmission owner in New Hampshire.  FPL FiberNet delivers wholesale and enterprise telecommunications services in Florida and certain areas of the South Central U.S.



NEE seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors, as described in more detail in the following sections.  NEE's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both FPL and NEER.  Management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities open to it and does not maintain any specific goal as to the relative size of the two businesses.  However, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by FPL and NEER is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise.  FPL and NEER, as well as other NEE subsidiaries, share common support functions with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses.





NEE'S OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES



I.  FPL



FPL was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEE.  FPL is a rate-regulated electric utility and is the largest electric utility in the state of Florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S. based on retail mwh sales.  FPL, with 24,057 mw of generating capacity at December 31, 2012, supplies electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida, serving more than 8.9 million people through approximately 4.6 million customer accounts.  At December 31, 2012, FPL's service territory and plant locations are as follows (see Item 2 - Generating Facilities):







FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS AND COMPETITION



FPL's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties.  Alternatively, municipalities and counties may form their own utility companies to provide service to their residents.  In a few cases, an FPL franchise agreement provides the municipality or county the right to buy the distribution assets serving local residents at the end of the agreement.  However, during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and FPL has the right to offer electric service to residents.  FPL currently holds 177 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in Florida with varying expiration dates through 2042.  Two of these franchise agreements expire in 2013, seven expire in 2014 and 168 expire during the period 2015 through 2042.  These franchise agreements cover approximately 86% of FPL's retail customer base in Florida.  Negotiations are ongoing to renew the franchise agreements that expire in 2013 and 2014.  FPL considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business.  FPL also provides service to 12 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility, relying upon Florida law for access to public rights of way.











Because any retail customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, FPL effectively must compete for an individual customer's business.  As a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since FPL's cost of service is generally substantially lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers.  Changing technology and economic conditions could alter the favorable relative cost position that FPL currently enjoys; however, FPL seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of high reliability, low bills and excellent customer service.



FPL also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers.  In each of 2012, 2011 and 2010, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 3% of FPL's total operating revenues.



The FPSC promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam and solar generating capacity by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, including FPL, to issue an RFP except when the FPSC determines that an exception from the RFP process is in the public interest.  The RFP process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity.  If a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity.



New nuclear power plants are exempt from the RFP requirement.  See FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations below regarding FPL's planned two additional nuclear units at Turkey Point.



CUSTOMERS AND REVENUE



FPL's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within Florida.  The percentage of FPL's operating revenues and customer accountsby customer class were as follows:







For both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that FPL may charge are controlled by regulation, by the FPSC in the case of retail customers, and by the FERC in the case of wholesale customers.  In general, under U.S. and Florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including an appropriate rate of return on capital employed.  However, the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed and there can be no guarantee that FPL will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates.  See the discussion of regulation at FPL Regulation below.











FPL seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers.  Since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low cost position.  A common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the cost per 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer.  FPL's 2012 average cost per 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was the lowest of the 55 electric utilities within Florida as indicated below:







TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION



FPL provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers.  FPL also maintains interconnection facilities with neighboring utilities and wholesale power providers, enabling it to buy and sell wholesale electricity outside its service territory and to enhance the reliability of its own network and support the reliability of neighboring networks.  FPL's transmission system carries high voltage electricity from its generating facilities to substations where the electricity is stepped down to lower voltage levels and is sent through the distribution system to its customers.



A key element of FPL's strategy is to provide highly reliable service to its customers.  The transmission and distribution system is susceptible to interruptions or outages from a wide variety of sources including weather, animal interference, traffic accidents, equipment failure and many others, and FPL seeks to reduce or eliminate outages where economically practical and to restore service rapidly when outages occur.  A common industry benchmark for transmission and distribution system reliability is the system average interruption duration index (SAIDI), which represents the number of minutes the average customer is without power during a time period.  For the five years 2007-2011, FPL's average annual SAIDI was the best of the investor-owned utilities in Florida.



FPL SYSTEM CAPABILITY AND LOAD



At December 31, 2012, FPL's resources for serving load consisted of 26,020 mw, of which 24,057 mw were from FPL-owned facilities (see Item 2 - Generating Facilities) and 1,963 mw were available through purchased power agreements (see FPL Sources of Generation - Purchased Power below).  Occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time.  However, customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in FPL's service territory.  The highest peak load FPL has served to date was 24,346 mw, which occurred on January 11, 2010.  FPL had adequate resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand.



FPL's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2013 is approximately 28%.  This reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of available output from FPL's active generating units, purchased power agreements and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of demand side management programs, including load management which was estimated at December 31, 2012 to be capable of reducing demand by 1,865 mw, and energy efficiency and conservation programs.  See FPL Sources of Generation - Fossil Operations and Nuclear Operations below regarding generation projects currently under construction.



FPL SOURCES OF GENERATION



FPL relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generating facilities, along with purchased power, in order to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix by responding to market and industry developments.  See descriptions of fossil, nuclear and solar operations below and a listing of FPL's generating facilities in Item 2 - Generating Facilities.











FPL's 2012 fuel mix based on mwh produced, including purchased power, was as follows:







During 2012, nuclear generation was lower than in 2011 as a result of outages related to a generation uprate project at FPL's nuclear units.



Fossil Operations (Natural Gas, Coal and Oil)



At December 31, 2012, FPL owned and operated 73 units that used fossil fuels such as natural gas and/or oil, and had a joint ownership interest in three coal units, which combined provided 20,696 mw of generating capacity for FPL.  These fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity demand.



FPL's natural gas plants require natural gas transportation, supply and storage.  FPL has firm transportation contracts in place with five different transportation suppliers with expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2036 that together areexpected to satisfy substantially all of the currently anticipated needs for natural gas transportation through 2016.  To the extent desirable, FPL also purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from these natural gas transportation suppliers based on pipeline availability.  FPL has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of FPL's anticipated needs for natural gas.  The remainder of FPL's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market.  FPL has an agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2014.  See Note 13 - Contracts.  With respect to its oil plants, FPL obtains its fuel requirements in the spot market.



In December 2012, FPL issued an RFP for an approximately 700-mile natural gas pipeline that will help FPL identify and evaluate options for new natural gas transportation infrastructure in Florida to meet the growing need for natural gas power.  The proposed pipeline will be composed of two segments and be operational beginning in 2017.  The upstream segment will originate at an existing hub in western Alabama and end at a new hub to be built in Central Florida that will allow the new pipeline to interconnect with peninsular Florida's two existing natural gas pipelines.  The downstream segment will originate at the new Central Florida hub and end in Martin County, Florida at FPL's Martin power plant.  FPL plans to propose a self-build option for the downstream segment of the pipeline, which, if selected, is expected to be built, owned and operated by a FERC-regulated affiliate.  The bids are due in April 2013 with the winning proposal(s) expected to be selected by the end of June 2013.  The pipeline will be subject to regulatory approvals.



St. Johns River Power Park (SJRPP) Units Nos. 1 and 2, in which FPL has a joint ownership interest, has a coal supply and transportation contract for a portion of the 2013 and 2014 fuel needs for those units.  All of the transportation requirements and a portion of the coal supply needs for Scherer Unit No. 4, the other coal unit in which FPL has a joint ownership interest, are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts.  The remaining fuel requirements for these units will be obtained in the spot market.  See Note 13 - Contracts.



Modernization Projects.FPL is in the process of modernizing its Cape Canaveral, Riviera Beach and Port Everglades power plants to high-efficiency natural gas-fired units that will provide approximately 1,200 mw, 1,200 mw and 1,280 mw of capacity, respectively, and be placed in service by June 2013, June 2014 and mid-2016, respectively.  In May 2012, the Florida Industrial Power Users Group appealed the FPSC's order approving the Port Everglades modernization, which appeal will be heard by the Florida Supreme Court.











Nuclear Operations



At December 31, 2012, FPL owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 3,326 mw.



FacilitymwOperating LicenseExpiration DatesSt. Lucie Unit No. 19812036St. Lucie Unit No. 28432043Turkey Point Unit No. 38092032Turkey Point Unit No. 46932033



FPL has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from June 2013 through 2023.  See Note 13 - Contracts.  NRC regulations require FPL to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation.  FPL's current plans, under the applicable operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively.  Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 commencing in 2043.



Projects to Add Additional Capacity.



Nuclear Unit Scheduled Refueling Outages.FPL's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications.  Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time.  The duration is longer for expanded scope outages, one of which is expected to be completed in the spring of 2013 at Turkey Point Unit No. 4.  The following table summarizes each unit's current or next scheduled refueling outage:



FacilityBeginning of Current or NextScheduled Refueling OutageSt. Lucie Unit No. 1September 2013St. Lucie Unit No. 2March 2014Turkey Point Unit No. 3January 2014Turkey Point Unit No. 4November 2012



Disposition of Spent Nuclear Fuel.FPL's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to allow FPL to store spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration.



Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended (Nuclear Waste Policy Act), the DOE is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste.  As required by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, FPL is a party to contracts with the DOE to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its nuclear units.















Nuclear Regulatory Developments.





The lessons learned from the events in Japan and the results of the NRC's actions will, among other things, result in new licensing and safety-related requirements for U.S. nuclear facilities.  Any new requirements could, among other things, impact future licensing and operations of U.S. nuclear facilities, including FPL's existing nuclear facilities and the NRC approval of two additional nuclear units at FPL's Turkey Point site, and could, among other things, result in increased cost and capital expenditures associated with the operation and maintenance of FPL's nuclear units.  Third parties have requested that the NRC, among other things, suspend the approval of nuclear license extensions and new licenses, including approval of licenses for two additional nuclear units at FPL's Turkey Point site.  It is uncertain how and when the NRC will respond to the requests or other requests it may receive.



Solar Operations



Solar generation can be provided primarily through two conventions: utility-owned and customer-owned.  In utility-owned solar generation, the energy generated goes directly to the transmission grid, whereas customer-owned solar generation goes directly to the location it is serving.  There are two principal solar technologies used for utility-scale projects: photovoltaic and thermal.  FPL placed its first utility-scale solar generating facility into service in 2009, a 25 mw solar PV facility in DeSoto County, Florida, and placed two additional solar generating facilities in service in 2010, a 10 mw solar PV facility in Brevard County, Florida and a 75 mw solar thermal facility in Martin County, Florida.











Purchased Power



In addition to owning generation facilities, FPL also purchases electricity from other utilities to meet customer demand through long- and short-term purchased power agreements.  As of December 31, 2012, FPL's long-term purchased power agreements provided for the purchase of approximately 1,963 mw of power with expiration dates ranging from 2015 through 2032.  See Note 13 - Contracts.  FPL also procures short-term capacity for both economic and reliability purposes.



FPL ENERGY MARKETING AND TRADING



FPL's Energy Marketing & Trading division (EMT) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity.  EMT procures natural gas and oil for FPL's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity.  EMT also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity.  Substantially all of the results of EMT's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses.  See FPL Regulation - FPL Rate Regulation below, Management's Discussion - Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity and Note 3.



FPL REGULATION



FPL's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following:



•the FPSC, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things;

•the FERC, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of facilities, transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things;

•the NERC, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the FERC, to ensure the reliability of the U.S. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts;

•the NRC, which has jurisdiction over the operation of FPL's nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders (see FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations above); and

•the EPA, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws.  The EPA also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts.



FPL Rate Regulation



The FPSC sets rates at a level that is intended to allow FPL the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to FPL's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital.  To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses.



Base Rates.In general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system.  These basic costs include O&M expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on FPL's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base).  At the time base rates are determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the FPSC's determination of FPL's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed ROE.  The FPSC monitors FPL's actual regulatory ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with the FPSC.  The FPSC does not provide assurance that any ROE will be achieved.  Base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings.  Proceedings can occur at the initiative of FPL or upon action by the FPSC.  Base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the FPSC.



Rates Effective January 2013 - December 2016- In January 2013, the FPSC issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between FPL and several intervenors in FPL's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement).  Key elements of the 2012 rate agreement, which is effective from January 2013 through December 2016, include, among other things, the following:



•New retail base rates and charges were established in January 2013 resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of $350 million on an annualized basis.

•FPL's allowed regulatory ROE will be 10.50%, with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points.  If FPL's earned regulatory ROE falls below 9.50%, FPL may seek retail base rate relief.  If the earned regulatory ROE rises above 11.50%, any party to the 2012 rate agreement other than FPL may seek a review of FPL's retail base rates.

•Retail base rates will be increased by the annualized base revenue requirements for FPL's three modernization projects (Cape Canaveral, Riviera Beach and Port Everglades) as each of the modernized power plants becomes operational (which is expected by June 2013, June 2014 and mid-2016, respectively).









•Cost recovery of WCEC Unit No. 3, which was placed in service in May 2011, will continue to occur through the capacity clause; however, such recovery will not be limited to the projected annual fuel cost savings as was the case in the previous rate agreement discussed below.

•Subject to certain conditions, FPL must amortize, over the term of the 2012 rate agreement, a depreciation reserve surplus remaining at the end of 2012 under the 2010 FPSC rate order discussed below (approximately $224 million) and may amortize a portion of FPL's fossil dismantlement reserve up to a maximum of $176 million (collectively, the reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, FPL must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.50% earned regulatory ROE but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory ROE in excess of 11.50%.

•Future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery.  Any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years.  If storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, FPL may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover the amount above $800 million.



On February 7, 2013, the Office of Public Counsel filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Supreme Court of the FPSC's final order regarding the 2012 rate agreement.



Rates Effective March 2010 - December 2012- Effective March 1, 2010, pursuant to an FPSC final order (2010 FPSC rate order), new retail base rates for FPL were established, resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of approximately $75 million on an annualized basis.  The 2010 FPSC rate order, among other things, also established a regulatory ROE of 10.0% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points.  In February 2011, the FPSC issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement agreement between FPL and principal parties in FPL's 2009 rate case  (2010 rate agreement). The 2010 rate agreement, which was effective through December 31, 2012, provided for, among other things, a reduction in depreciation expense (surplus depreciation credit) in any calendar year up to a cap in 2010 of $267 million, a cap in subsequent years of $267 million plus the amount of any unused portion from prior years, and a total cap of $776 million over the course of the 2010 rate agreement, provided that in any year of the 2010 rate agreement FPL was required to use enough surplus depreciation credit to maintain an earned regulatory ROE within the range of 9.0% - 11.0%.  The 2010 rate agreement also permitted incremental cost recovery through FPL's capacity clause for WCEC Unit No. 3 up to the amount of the projected annual fuel savings for customers.  See Cost Recovery Clauses below for additional information regarding the capacity clause.



Cost Recovery Clauses.Cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange costs, certain construction-related costs and conservation and certain environmental-related costs.  Cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class.  These cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods.  An adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates.



Fuel costs are recovered from customers through the fuel clause, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses.  FPL uses a risk management fuel procurement program which has been approved by the FPSC.  The FPSC reviews the program activities and results for prudence annually as part of its review of fuel costs.  The program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPL's fuel requirements.  See FPL Energy Marketing and Trading above, Management's Discussion - FPL: Results of Operations, Note 1 - Regulation and Note 3.



Capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause.  In accordance with the FPSC's nuclear cost recovery rule, FPL also recovers pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a fixed pretax AFUDC rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity clause.  As property related to the new nuclear capacity goes into service, construction costs and a return on investment are recovered through base rate increases effective beginning the following January.  See FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations above.  In accordance with the 2012 and 2010 rate agreements, cost recovery for WCEC Unit No. 3 is permitted during the term of the agreements through FPL's capacity clause and is reported as retail base revenues.



Costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause.  Certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 and costs associated with FPL's three solar facilities are recovered through the environmental compliance cost recovery clause (environmental clause).



The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred.  These costs may include, among others, fuel and O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities.











FERC



The Federal Power Act gives the FERC exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce.  Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the FERC which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of FERC-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services.  The Federal Power Act also gives the FERC authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to develop mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of bulk-power systems.  The FERC also approves reliability standards and makes them enforceable.  See NERC below.  Electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the FERC.  The FERC also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates.



NERC



The NERC has been certified by the FERC as the national electric reliability organization.  The NERC ensures the reliability and security of the North American bulk power system.  The NERC's regional entities establish requirements, approved by the FERC, for reliable operation and maintenance of power generation facilities and transmission systems.  FPL is subject to these reliability requirements and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them.  Each NERC region reports seasonally and annually on the status of generation and transmission in each region.



FPL Environmental Regulation



FPL is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues, described in the NEE Environmental Matters section below.  FPL expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations.



FPL EMPLOYEES



FPL had approximately 9,700 employees at December 31, 2012.  Approximately 32% of the employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) under a collective bargaining agreement with FPL that expires October 31, 2014.







II.  NEER



NEER was formed in 1998 to aggregate NEE's competitive energy businesses.  It is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEECH.  Through its subsidiaries, NEER currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generating facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the U.S., as well as in Canada and Spain.  See Note 14.  NEER is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the U.S., with 18,122 mw of generating capacity across 24 states and 4 Canadian provinces as of December 31, 2012.  NEER produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below.  NEER is the largest owner of wind and utility-scale solar energy projects in North America.  Since 2002, NEER has more than doubled its generating capacity, primarily through the development of new wind projects and acquisition of nuclear projects.



NEER engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, to hedge the production from its generating assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements.  These activities include providing full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offering customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers.  NEER also participates in natural gas production through non-operating ownership interests and pipeline infrastructure development, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business, and owns a retail electricity provider serving customers in 13 states and the District of Columbia.



MARKETS AND COMPETITION



Electricity markets in the U.S. are regional and diverse in character.  All are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation.  The nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region.  Generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, NEER may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products.  NEER's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities is also constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing.



The degree and nature of competition that NEER faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets.  Approximately 90% of NEER's revenue is derived from wholesale markets.











Wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants.  NEER primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of NEER's generating assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages.  Wholesale power generation is a regional business that is currently highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure.  As such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies NEER competes with depending on the market.  In wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services.



In general, U.S. electricity markets encompass three classes of product: energy, capacity and ancillary services.  Energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services related to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves.  The exact nature of these classes of product is defined in part by regional tariffs.  Not all regions have a capacity product class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region.



RTOs and ISOs exist in a number of regions within which NEER operates to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets.  NEER also has operations that fall within the Western Electricity Coordinating Council reliability region that are not under the jurisdiction of an established RTO or ISO.  Although each RTO and ISO may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers.  NEER has operations that fall within the following RTOs and ISOs:



•Alberta Electric System Operator

•California Independent System Operator

•ERCOT

•Independent Electricity System Operator (in Ontario)

•ISO New England (ISO-NE)

•Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator (MISO)

•New York Independent System Operator (NYISO)

•PJM

•Southwest Power Pool



NEER competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generating facilities, and approximately 58% of NEER's generating capacity is fully committed under long-term contracts.  Where long-term contracts are not in effect, NEER sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets.  In such cases, NEER will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically but not always of one to three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market.  Such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, may only protect a portion of the revenue that NEER expects to derive from the associated generation facility and may not qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP.  Contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under GAAP are referred to as “non-qualifying hedges” for adjusted earnings purposes.  See Management's Discussion - Overview.



The NEER wind generation portfolio produces renewable energy credits (RECs) which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts.  A small portion of the wind portfolio generation is sold under short-term contracts and the RECs and other environmental attributes may be sold separately.



While the majority of NEER's revenue is derived from the output of its generating facilities, NEER is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and gas products and services to a variety of customers.  In the full requirements service, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day for a fixed period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements.



The deregulated retail energy business is typically a highly competitive business.  In general, competition in the retail energy business is on the basis of price, service, brand image, product offerings and market perceptions of creditworthiness.  Electricity is sold pursuant to a variety of product types, including fixed, indexed and renewable products, and customers elect terms of service typically ranging from one month to five years.  Retail energy rates are market-based, and not subject to traditional cost-of-service regulation by public service commissions.  Non-affiliated transmission and distribution service companies provide, on a non-discriminatory basis, the wires and metering services necessary to deliver service to customers.  Subsidiaries of NEER compete in certain states for retail customers, which can be divided into two principal segments: residential and commercial and industrial (C&I).  Residential customers largely require only energy services, which may be purchased on a month-to-month basis or under a multi-year contract.  Large C&I customers share many of the same characteristics as wholesale utility customers and may require similarly customized and structured products.











In general, competitive retail electric providers are exposed to both volume and price risk: customers' volumes will vary, and competitive retail providers are committed to supplying the customer's full needs at all times and are therefore responsible for purchases in wholesale markets to meet those needs; and wholesale prices will fluctuate in ways that do not necessarily match the retail prices committed to the customer.



Expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for NEER.  Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets.  NEER seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities.



GENERATION AND OTHER OPERATIONS



The vast majority of NEER's revenue is derived from selling the products (energy, capacity, RECs and ancillary services) produced by its own generating facilities.  However, NEER may combine purchases of relevant products in wholesale markets with products produced by its own generating facilities in order to meet particular customers' needs.



At December 31, 2012, the locations of NEER's generation facilities in North America are as follows:







At December 31, 2012, NEER managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its generation projects in which it has an ownership interest.



NEER categorizes its portfolio in a number of different ways for different business purposes.  See a listing of NEER's generating facilities in Item 2 - Generating Facilities.  The following combination of the presence/absence of long-term contracts, fuel/technology and region is a common presentation that NEE has used in communicating its business:











Contracted, Merchant and Other Operations



NEER's portfolio of operations based on the presence/absence of long-term contracts and other operations is described below.



Contracted Assets.Contracted assets are projects with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their output and certain wind assets where long-term power contracts are expected to be executed.  At December 31, 2012, NEER had 11,039 mw of contracted assets, substantially all of which have long-term power contracts.  Essentially all of the output of these contracted assets were under power sales agreements, with a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 15 years, and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from March 2013 through 2022.  See Note 13 - Contracts.  Approximately 8,213 mw of this capacity is wind generation and 1,621 mw of this capacity is nuclear generation.  The remaining 1,205 mw use a variety of fuels and technologies such as natural gas, oil and solar.



Merchant Assets.Merchant assets are projects that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output, or, in the case of certain wind assets, are not expected to have long-term power contracts, and therefore require active marketing and hedging.  At December 31, 2012, NEER's portfolio of merchant assets consists of 7,083 mw of owned wind, nuclear, natural gas, oil, solar and hydro generating facilities (see NEER Fuel/Technology Mix - Other Assets below), including 846 mw of peak generating facilities.  Approximately 60% (based on net mw capacity) of the natural gas-fueled merchant assets have natural gas transportation agreements to provide for fluctuating natural gas requirements.  See Note 13 - Contracts.  Derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) are generally used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases.  Managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty, credit and operational risks.



Other.NEER's operations also include the gas infrastructure business and the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses.  At December 31, 2012, the gas infrastructure business had non-operating investments located in shale formations primarily in Texas, Oklahoma, Wyoming, North Dakota and Louisiana.  Also, see NEER Customer Supply and Proprietary Power and Gas Trading below.



NEER Fuel/Technology Mix



NEER's generating output is produced using a variety of fuel sources as further described below.







Wind Facilities



At December 31, 2012, NEER had ownership interests in wind generating facilities with a total capacity of 10,057 mw (net ownership).  NEER operates substantially all of these wind facilities, which are located in 19 states and Canada.  During 2012, NEER added approximately 1,520 mw of new wind generation and sold a wind facility with 30 mw of generating capacity.  NEER is currently committed to add approximately 775 mw of new wind generation during the period 2013 to 2015, primarily in Canada.  See Policy Incentives for Renewable Energy Projects for additional discussion of NEER's expectations regarding wind development and construction.



Natural Gas Facilities



At December 31, 2012, NEER had 3,991 mw of natural gas assets.  NEER owns and operates 1,004 mw of natural gas-fired generation from contracted assets located throughout the Northeast.











Nuclear Facilities



At December 31, 2012, NEER owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,721 mw.



FacilityLocationmwPortfolioCategoryOperating LicenseExpiration DatesSeabrookNew Hampshire1,100Merchant2030(a)Duane ArnoldIowa431Contracted(b)2034Point Beach Unit No. 1Wisconsin595Contracted(c)2030Point Beach Unit No. 2Wisconsin595Contracted(c)2033

______________________

(a)In 2010, NEER filed an application with the NRC to renew Seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years, which license renewal may be delayed due to required revisions to the NRC's Waste Confidence Rule which are not expected to be finalized before late 2014.

(b)NEER sells substantially all of its share of the output of Duane Arnold under a long-term contract expiring in February 2014.  Upon expiration of that contract, NEER will sell all of its share of the output of Duane Arnold under a long-term contract expiring in February 2025.

(c)NEER sells all of the output of Point Beach Units Nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through the current operating license terms.



NEER's nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply of uranium and conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from March 2013 through 2022.  See Note 13 - Contracts.  NEER is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly-owned units.  NRC regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation.



Nuclear Unit Scheduled Refueling Outages.NEER's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications.  Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time.  The following table summarizes the next scheduled refueling outages:



FacilityNext ScheduledRefueling OutageSeabrookApril 2014Duane ArnoldOctober 2014Point Beach Unit No. 1March 2013Point Beach Unit No. 2March 2014



Disposition of Spent Nuclear Fuel.NEER's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to allow NEER to store spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration.



As owners and operators of nuclear facilities, certain subsidiaries of NEER are subject to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act and are parties to the spent fuel settlement agreement and legal actions described in FPL - FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations.  Similar to FPL, these subsidiaries will continue to pay fees to the U.S. government's nuclear waste fund pending further action by the D.C. Circuit.



Nuclear Regulatory Developments.For discussion of developments regarding the impact of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan as it relates to U.S. nuclear facilities, see FPL - FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations.  NEER's nuclear facilities are subject to the same NRC actions as described for FPL.  Duane Arnold is NEER's only boiling water reactor unit.  NEER is currently reviewing the various orders and requests for information being issued by the NRC and assessing the potential financial and operational impact on its nuclear units, which could be significant.  NEER's preliminary estimate of the cost to complete the NRC actions established in March 2012 is included in estimated capital expenditures.  See Note 13 - Commitments.











Solar Facilities



NEER is one of the largest owners of utility-scale solar energy projects in North America, principally through a 310 mw facility in California's Mojave Desert, of which 148 mw is owned by NEER as of December 31, 2012.  NEER and its affiliates are in the process of constructing solar thermal facilities with generating capacity of 99.8 mw in Spain (Spain solar projects) (see Note 13 - Commitments for recent changes in law that could negatively affect the Spain solar projects) and 250 mw in California (Genesis solar project), which are expected to be completed in 2013 and 2014, respectively.  In addition, a 550 mw solar PV project in California (Desert Sunlight solar project), in which NEER has a 50% equity investment, has commenced construction and commercial operation is expected to be phased in during 2013 through 2015.  During 2012, NEER acquired 40 mw of new solar generation in Canada.



Other Assets



At December 31, 2012, NEER had 1,155 mw of generation assets from a variety of other fuel technologies, including oil and hydropower, with facilities located throughout the Northeast.  In late 2012, a subsidiary of NEER entered into an agreement to sell its ownership interest in a portfolio of hydropower generation plants and related assets with a total generating capacity of 351 mw located in Maine and New Hampshire.  Upon the anticipated closing in the first quarter of 2013, NEER will have no further investments in hydropower assets.



Policy Incentives for Renewable Energy Projects



In its development and operation of U.S. wind generation facilities, NEER depends heavily on the federal PTC, which currently provides an income tax credit for the production of electricity from utility-scale wind turbines for the first ten years of commercial operation.  This incentive was created under the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and was set to expire such that it would not apply to wind projects that achieve commercial operation after December 31, 2012.  Under the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (Taxpayer Relief Act), the PTC was extended for wind projects whose construction begins by December 31, 2013.  Alternatively, wind project developers can choose to receive a 30% ITC, in lieu of the PTC, with the same requirement that construction of the wind project begin by December 31, 2013.  For qualifying wind projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects were placed in service in 2012, wind project developers could elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the U.S. Department of Treasury for the value of the 30% ITC.  NEER's expectations for wind development and construction in 2013 and beyond will depend, in part, on rules to be established under the Taxpayer Relief Act.



Solar project developers are also eligible to receive a 30% ITC for new solar projects that achieve commercial operations before 2017.  Solar project developers can elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the U.S. Department of Treasury for the value of the 30% ITC for qualifying solar projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects are placed in service before 2017.



Other countries, including Canada and Spain, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects.  The feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology.



NEER Generation by Geographic Region



NEER's generating capacity spans various geographic regions in North America, thereby reducing overall volatility related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio basis.  NEER's generating facilities at December 31, 2012 are categorized by geographic region (see Item 2 - Generating Facilities) in terms of mw of capacity as follows:















NEER's power generation in terms of mwh produced for the year ended December 31, 2012 by fuel type is as follows:







NEER CUSTOMER SUPPLY AND PROPRIETARY POWER AND GAS TRADING



PMI, a subsidiary of NEER, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as electricity, natural gas and oil.  PMI sells the output from NEER's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures the non-nuclear fuel for use by NEER's generation fleet.  Its primary role is to manage the commodity risk of NEER's portfolio.  PMI uses derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of NEER's power generation assets.



PMI also provides a wide range of electricity and gas commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to electric and gas utilities, municipalities, cooperatives and other load-serving entities, as well as to owners of electric generation facilities.  PMI's customer supply business includes providing full energy and capacity requirements and mid-market services that include sales and purchases of wholesale commodities-related products and the operations of a retail electricity provider, which during 2012, served approximately 2,950 mw of peak load to approximately 209,100 customers across the ERCOT, New England Power Pool (NEPOOL), PJM, NYISO and MISO markets.



The results of PMI's activities are included in NEER's operating results.  See Management's Discussion - Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity, Note 1 - Energy Trading and Note 3.



NEER REGULATION



The energy markets in which NEER operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules.



At December 31, 2012, NEER had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the U.S. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, which represent approximately 96% of NEER's net generating capacity.  Exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers.  They are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers.  NEER's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, hydro, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities.  Essentially all of the remaining 4% of NEER's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under the PURPA.  NEER's qualifying facilities generate electricity primarily from wind, solar and fossil fuels.  Qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the Federal Power Act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities.  While projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws.



Additionally, most of the NEER facilities located in the U.S. are subject to FERC regulations and market rules, the NERC's mandatory reliability standards and the EPA's environmental laws, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC.  See FPL - FPL Regulation for additional discussion of FERC, NERC, NRC and EPA regulations.  With the exception of facilities located in ERCOT, the FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of NEER's business in the U.S., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, regulation of hydro projects and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas and hydro projects and major electricity policy initiatives.  The PUCT has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over NEER facilities located in ERCOT.  NEER and its affiliates are also subject to national and provincial or regional regulations in Canada and Spain related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards.











NEER is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues related to renewable energy resources as described in the NEE Environmental Matters section below.  In order to better anticipate these potential regulatory changes, NEER continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities.



NEER EMPLOYEES



NEER and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,700 employees at December 31, 2012.  Certain subsidiaries of NEER have collective bargaining agreements with the IBEW, the Utility Workers Union of America, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America and the International Union of Operating Engineers, which collectively represent approximately 23% of NEER's employees.  The collective bargaining agreements have one- to five-year terms and expire between September 2013 and 2015.







III. OTHER NEE OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES



NEE's Corporate and Other segment represents other business activities, primarily NEET and FPL FiberNet, that are not separately reportable.  See Note 14.



NEET



NEET, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEECH, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware.  NEET conducts its business primarily through two subsidiaries, Lone Star and NHT, and is pursuing opportunities to develop, build and operate new transmission facilities throughout North America.



Lone Star



Lone Star is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware.  Lone Star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in Texas, is constructing approximately 330 miles of 345 kilovolt (kv) transmission lines and other associated facilities.  Two substations and associated facilities with a total capital investment of approximately $49 million were placed in service in 2012, with the remaining associated facilities and transmission lines expected to be placed in service in March 2013, for a total capital investment of approximately $780 million.  Lone Star's transmission lines are part of a transmission grid improvement program that will add approximately 2,300 miles of 345 kv lines to deliver power from the Competitive Renewable Energy Zones in west Texas and the Texas panhandle to the Dallas/Fort Worth area and other population centers in Texas.



Lone Star is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the PUCT, the ERCOT, the NERC and the EPA, as well as certain limited regulations of the FERC.  See FPL - FPL Regulation for further discussion of FERC, NERC and EPA regulations and NEE Environmental Matters.  The PUCT has jurisdiction over a wide range of Lone Star's business activities, including, among others, rates charged to customers and certain aspects of siting, construction and operation of transmission systems.  The PUCT sets rates at a level that allows Lone Star the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to Lone Star's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital.



In October 2012, the PUCT reached a decision in Lone Star's initial rate case proceeding.  In January 2013, the PUCT, during rehearing, approved Lone Star's wholesale transmission service rate reflecting an annual revenue requirement for, among other things, capital investment of approximately $49 million, a regulatory equity ratio of 45%, an allowed regulatory ROE of 9.6% and other operating expenses.  The remaining capital investment will be included in Lone Star's rates by means of an interim rate adjustment mechanism.  In addition, Lone Star must file a general rate case, with a full 12-month historical test year, within four months of having 12 months of historical operating data, which is expected to occur in mid-2014.



NHT



NHT, a rate-regulated transmission owner in ISO-NE, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware.  NHT owns transmission facilities which connect NEER's Seabrook nuclear facility to the New England transmission grid and interconnect three 345 kv transmission lines in New England.  NHT is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the New Hampshire Public Utility Commission, ISO-NE, the FERC, the NERC and the EPA.  See FPL - FPL Regulation for further discussion of FERC, NERC and EPA regulations and NEE Environmental Matters.  NHT wholesale transmission revenues are provided through an ISO-NE tariff.











FPL FIBERNET



FPL FiberNet conducts its business through two separate wholly-owned subsidiaries of NEECH.  One subsidiary was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of NEE's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support FPL operations and the other was formed in 2011 to hold fiber-optic network assets which were acquired.  Both subsidiaries are limited liability companies organized under the laws of Delaware.  FPL FiberNet leases fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to FPL and other customers, primarily telephone, wireless, internet and other telecommunications companies.  FPL FiberNet's networks cover most of the metropolitan areas in Florida and several in Texas.  FPL FiberNet also has a long-haul network providing bandwidth at wholesale rates.  The long-haul network connects major cities in Florida and Texas with additional connectivity to Atlanta, Georgia and the South Central U.S., including Arkansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma.  At December 31, 2012, FPL FiberNet's network consisted of approximately 8,600 route miles.  FPL FiberNet is subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission which has jurisdiction over wire and wireless communication networks and by the public utility commissions in the states in which it provides intrastate telecommunication services.



NEE ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



NEE and FPL are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations.  The U.S. Congress and certain states and regions continue to consider several legislative and regulatory proposals with respect to GHG emissions.  The economic and operational impact of climate change legislation on NEE and FPL depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the allowed emissions, whether emission allowances will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance.  Based on the most recent reference data available from government sources, NEE is among the lowest emitters, among electric generators, of GHG in the U.S. measured by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of CO2per mwh of generation.  However, the legislative and regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on FPL's and NEER's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to NEE and FPL could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any specific implementation rules adopted.



I. Environmental Regulations



The following is a discussion of certain existing and emerging federal and state initiatives and rules, some of which could potentially have a material effect (either positive or negative) on NEE and its subsidiaries.  FPL expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations.



•Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR)/Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR).The EPA's CAIR requires SO2and NOx emissions reductions from electric generating units in specified Eastern states and the District of Columbia, where the emissions from electric generating units are deemed to be transported to downwind states.  NEER and FPL began complying with the CAIR on January 1, 2009.  In July 2011, the EPA issued the CSAPR, a final rule which was to replace the CAIR beginning in January 2012.  The CSAPR would limit emissions of SO2and NOx from power plants in 28 eastern states and provides an allocation methodology for emission allowances and reduction limits for SO2, NOx and seasonal ozone requirements.  In August 2012, the D.C. Circuit vacated the CSAPR and remanded it back to the EPA for further rulemaking.  The D.C. Circuit ordered that the CAIR remain in place until such time that the EPA promulgates a valid replacement.  Several parties, including the EPA, filed for rehearing, which the D.C. Circuit denied in January 2013.  Those parties have until April 2013 to seek review by the U.S. Supreme Court.



•Clean Water Act Section 316(b).In March 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act to address the location, design, construction and capacity of intake structures at existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems, with a final rule expected by the summer of 2013.  The proposed rule is intended to require the Best Technology Available to reduce the impact on aquatic organisms from once-through cooling water intake systems.  Under the proposed rule, potentially thirteen of FPL's facilities and five of NEER's facilities may be required to add additional controls and/or make operational changes to comply, the economic and operational impact of which cannot be determined at this time, but could be material.  Prior to the passage of a new rule, states are continuing to utilize "Best Professional Judgment" in the application of Section 316(b) compliance requirements.



•Regulation of GHG Emissions.The EPA continues to evaluate regulatory options under the Clean Air Act for existing fossil fuel-fired power units.  The EPA's proposed rule is anticipated in either late 2013 or early 2014 and could be finalized in late 2014.  This EPA guidance will direct each state to develop their respective state implementation plan which will set forth the program requirements within that state, and compliance would be expected over several years.



•Revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for Particulate Matter.In December 2012, the EPA proposed a rule revision for particulate matter NAAQS to lower the annual PM2.5 standard, which proposed rule is not expected to have a significant impact on FPL or NEER facilities.













•

Avian/Bat Regulations and Wind Turbine Siting Guidelines.

NEER and FPL are subject to numerous environmental regulations and guidelines related to threatened and endangered species and their habitats,



as well as avian and bat species, for the siting, construction and



ongoing operations of their facilities.  The facilities most significantly affected are wind facilities and transmission and distribution lines.  The environmental laws include, among others, the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act which provide for protection of migratory birds, eagles and endangered species of birds and bats and their habitats.  Regulations have been adopted under some of these laws that contain provisions that allow the owner/operator of a facility to apply for a permit to undertake specific activities including those associated with certain siting decisions, construction activities and operations.  In addition to regulations, voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines established by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service set forth siting, monitoring and coordination protocols that are designed to support wind development in the U.S. while also protecting both birds and bats and their habitats.  These guidelines include provisions for specific monitoring and study conditions which need to be met in order for projects to be in adherence with these voluntary guidelines.  Complying with these environmental regulations and adhering to the provisions set forth in the voluntary wind turbine siting guidelines could result in additional costs at existing and new wind generating facilities and transmission and distribution facilities at NEER and FPL.



II. Other GHG Emissions Reduction Initiatives



NEER's plants operate in certain states and regions that continue to consider and implement regulatory proposals to reduce GHG emissions.  RPS, currently in place in approximately 30 states and the District of Columbia, require electricity providers in the state or district to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources.  These standards vary, but the majority include requirements to meet 10% to 25% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025.  NEER's plants operate in 19 statesthat have a RPS and NEER believes that these standards will create incremental demand for renewable energy in the future.



Other GHG reduction initiatives including, among others, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and the California Greenhouse Gas Regulation aim to reduce emissions through a variety of programs and under varying timelines.  Based on its clean generating portfolio, NEER expects to continue experiencing a positive impact on earnings as a result of these GHG reduction initiatives.  Additionally, these initiatives provide NEER opportunities with regards to wind and solar development as well as favorable energy pricing.



WEBSITE ACCESS TO SEC FILINGS



NEE and FPL make their SEC filings, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on NEE's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The information and materials available on NEE's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined Form 10-K.  The SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.















EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF NEE(a)







NameAgePositionEffective Date

Paul I. Cutler53Treasurer of NEETreasurer of FPLAssistant Secretary of NEEFebruary 19, 2003February 18, 2003December 10, 1997

Moray P. Dewhurst57Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and Executive Vice President - Finance of NEEExecutive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPLOctober 5, 2011

Shaun J. Francis41Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Services of NEEExecutive Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Services of FPLJanuary 1, 2013

Chris N. Froggatt55Vice President of NEEController and Chief Accounting Officer of NEEOctober 19, 2009February 27, 2010

Lewis Hay, III57Executive Chairman of NEEJuly 1, 2012

Joseph T. Kelliher52Executive Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs of NEEMay 18, 2009

Manoochehr K. Nazar58Executive Vice President, Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of NEEExecutive Vice President, Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of FPLJanuary 1, 2010January 15, 2010

Armando Pimentel, Jr.50President and Chief Executive Officer of NEEROctober 5, 2011

James L. Robo50President and Chief Executive Officer of NEEChairman and Chief Executive Officer of FPLJuly 1, 2012May 2, 2012

Antonio Rodriguez(b)70Executive Vice President, Power Generation Division of NEEExecutive Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPLJanuary 1, 2007July 1, 1999

Charles E. Sieving40Executive Vice President & General Counsel of NEEExecutive Vice President of FPLDecember 1, 2008January 1, 2009

Eric E. Silagy47President of FPLDecember 16, 2011

William L. Yeager54Executive Vice President, Engineering, Construction & Integrated Supply Chain of NEEExecutive Vice President, Engineering, Construction & Integrated Supply Chain of FPLJanuary 1, 2013

______________________



(a)

Information is as of

February 27, 2013

(b)NEE title changed from vice president to executive vice president effective May 23, 2008 and FPL title changed from senior vice president to executive vice president effective July 17, 2008.











