Item 1.  Business





OVERVIEW



NextEra Energy, Inc. (hereafter, NEE) is one of the largest electric power companies in North America, with over 41,000 mw of generating capacity in 24 states in the U.S. and 3 provinces in Canada, and employing approximately 14,800 people as of December 31, 2011.  NEE provides retail and wholesale electric services to more than 4 million customers and owns generation, transmission and distribution facilities to support its services.  It also purchases electric power for resale to its customers and provides risk management services related to power and gas consumption for a limited number of customers.  NEE is the largest generator in the U.S. of renewable energy from the wind and sun and owned approximately 18% of the installed base of U.S. wind power production capacity as of December 31, 2011.  NEE also produces electricity from solar facilities, and owns and operates one of the largest fleets of nuclear power stations in the U.S., with eight reactors at five sites located in four states, representing approximately 6% of U.S. nuclear power electric generating capacity as of December 31, 2011.  NEE's business strategy has emphasized the development, acquisition and operation of renewables, nuclear and natural gas-fired generation facilities in response to long-term federal policy trends supportive of zero and low air emissions sources of power.  NEE's generation fleet has significantly lower rates of emissions of CO


, SO


and NOx than the average rates of the U.S. electric power industry with approximately 93% of its 2011 generation, measured by mwh produced, coming from renewables, nuclear and natural gas-fired facilities.  Certain environmental attributes of NEE's electric generating facilities, such as renewable energy credits, emissions reductions, offsets, allowances and the avoided emission of GHG pollutants, have been or likely will be sold or transferred to third parties, who are solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes.



NEE was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida and conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Florida Power & Light Company (hereafter, FPL) and NextEra Energy Resources, LLC (hereafter, NEER).  NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. (hereafter, NEECH), another wholly-owned subsidiary of NEE, owns and provides funding for NEER's and NEE's other operating subsidiaries, other than FPL and its subsidiaries.  NEE's two principal businesses also constitute NEE's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes, as illustrated below:







FPL is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in Florida.  FPL is the largest electric utility in the state of Florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S. based on generation.  FPL is vertically integrated, with approximately 24,500 mw of generating capacity as of December 31, 2011.  FPL's investments in its infrastructure since 2001, such as modernizing less efficient generating plants and upgrading its transmission and distribution systems, have allowed FPL to produce more energy with less fuel and fewer air emissions, and deliver service reliability that was among the best of the Florida investor-owned utilities, all while providing residential and commercial bills that were among the lowest in Florida and below the national average based on a rate per kwh as of July 2011.  With 85% of its power generation coming from natural gas, nuclear and solar, FPL is also one of the cleanest electric utilities in the nation.  Based on 2011 information, FPL's emissions rates for CO2, SO2and NOx were 36%, 84% and 72% lower, respectively, than the average rates of the U.S. electric power industry.



NEER is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the U.S., with approximately 16,600 mw of generating capacity across 22 states and 3 Canadian provinces as of December 31, 2011.  NEER produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources, including wind, solar and hydro.  NEER also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, owns a retail electricity provider serving customers in 13 states and the District of Columbia and engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities.



NEECH's other business activities are primarily conducted through FPL FiberNet and Lone Star.  FPL FiberNet delivers wholesale and enterprise telecommunications services in Florida and certain areas of the South Central U.S.  Lone Star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in Texas, is constructing transmission lines and other associated facilities in Texas.











NEE seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors, as described in more detail in the following sections.  NEE's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both FPL and NEER.  Management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities open to it and does not maintain any specific goal as to the relative size of the two businesses.  However, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by FPL and NEER is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise.





NEE'S OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES



I.  FPL



FPL was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEE.  FPL is a rate-regulated electric utility and is the largest electric utility in the state of Florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S based on generation.  FPL, with 24,460 mw of generating capacity at December 31, 2011, supplies electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida, serving nearly 8.9 million people through approximately 4.6 million customer accounts.  At December 31, 2011, FPL's service territory and plant locations are as follows (see Item 2 - Generating Facilities):







FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS AND COMPETITION



FPL's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties.  Municipalities and counties may form their own utility companies to provide service to their residents.  In a few cases, the franchise agreement provides the municipality or county the right to buy the distribution assets serving local residents at the end of the agreement.  However, during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30-years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and FPL has the right to offer electric service to residents.  FPL currently holds 178 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in Florida with varying expiration dates through 2042.  Four of these franchise agreements expire in 2013 and 174 expire during the period 2014 through 2042.  These franchise agreements cover approximately 83% of FPL's retail customer base in Florida.  Negotiations are ongoing to renew the franchise agreements that expire in 2013.  FPL considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business.  FPL also provides service to 11 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility, relying upon Florida law for access to public rights of way.



Because any retail customer may elect to provide his/her own services, FPL effectively must compete for an individual customer's business.  As a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since FPL's cost of service is generally substantially lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers.  Changing technology and economic conditions could alter the favorable relative cost position that FPL currently enjoys; however, FPL seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of high reliability, low bills and excellent customer service.



FPL also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers.  In 2011, 2010 and 2009, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 3%, 3% and 4%, respectively, of FPL's total operating revenues.



The FPSC promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam generating capacity by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, including FPL, to issue a request for proposal (RFP) except when the FPSC determines that an exception from the RFP process is in the public interest.  The RFP process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity.  If a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and









demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity.  New nuclear power plants are exempt from the RFP requirement.  See FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations below regarding FPL's planned two additional nuclear units at Turkey Point.



CUSTOMERS AND REVENUE



FPL's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within Florida.  The percentage of FPL's operating revenues and customer accountsby customer class were as follows:







For both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that FPL may charge are controlled by regulation, by the FPSC in the case of retail customers, and by the FERC in the case of wholesale customers.  In general, under U.S. and Florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including an appropriate rate of return on capital employed.  However, the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed and there can be no guarantee that FPL will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all or any portion of its costs through regulated rates.  See discussion of regulation at FPL Regulation - FPL Rate Regulation below.



As noted above, FPL seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers.  A common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the cost per 1,000 kwh of consumption per month for a residential customer.  FPL's 2011 average cost per 1,000 kwh of monthly residential usage was the lowest of the 55 electric utilities within Florida as indicated below:















TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION



FPL provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links all its generation facilities to all its customers.  FPL also maintains interconnection facilities with neighboring utilities and wholesale power providers, enabling it to buy and sell wholesale electricity outside its service territory and to enhance the reliability of its own network and support the reliability of neighboring networks.  FPL's transmission system carries high voltage electricity from its generating facilities to substations where the electricity is stepped down to lower voltage levels and is sent through the distribution system to its customers.



A key element of FPL's strategy is to provide highly reliable service to its customers.  The transmission and distribution system is susceptible to interruptions or outages from a wide variety of sources including weather, animal interference, traffic accidents, equipment failure and many others, and FPL seeks to reduce or eliminate outages where economically practical and to restore service rapidly in the event of an outage.  A common benchmark for transmission and distribution system reliability is the system average interruption duration index (SAIDI), which represents the number of minutes the average customer is without power during a time period.  During the five years ended 2010, FPL had the best average SAIDI of the Florida investor-owned utilities.



FPL SYSTEM CAPABILITY AND LOAD



At December 31, 2011, FPL's resources for serving load consisted of 26,538 mw, of which 24,460 mw were from FPL-owned facilities (see Item 2 - Generating Facilities) and 2,078 mw were available through purchased power agreements (see FPL Sources of Generation - Purchased Power below).  Occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time.  However, customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in FPL's service territory.  The highest peak load FPL has served to date was 24,346 mw, which occurred on January 11, 2010.  FPL had adequate resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand.



FPL's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2012 is approximately 28%.  This reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of available output from FPL's active generating units, purchased power agreements and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of demand side management programs, including load management which was estimated at December 31, 2011 to be capable of reducing demand by 1,817 mw, and energy efficiency and conservation programs.  See FPL Sources of Generation - Fossil Operations and Nuclear Operations below regarding generation projects currently under construction.



FPL SOURCES OF GENERATION



FPL relies upon a diverse mix of fuel sources for its generating facilities, along with purchased power, in order to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix by responding to market and industry developments.  See descriptions of fossil, nuclear and solar operations below and a listing of FPL's generating facilities in Item 2 - Generating Facilities.



FPL's 2011 fuel mix based on mwh produced, including purchased power, was as follows:

















Fossil Operations (Natural Gas, Coal and Oil)



At December 31, 2011, FPL owned and operated 78 units that used fossil fuels such as natural gas and/or oil, and had a joint ownership interest in three coal units, which combined provided 21,455 mw of generating capacity for FPL.  These fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity demand.



FPL's natural gas plants require natural gas transportation, supply and storage.  FPL has firm transportation contracts in place with four different transportation suppliers with expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2036 that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation at existing units.  To the extent desirable, FPL also purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from these natural gas suppliers based on pipeline availability.  FPL has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of FPL's anticipated needs for natural gas.  The remainder of FPL's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market.  FPL has an agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2013.  See Note 14 - Contracts.  With respect to its oil plants, FPL obtains its fuel requirements in the spot market.



St. Johns River Power Park (SJRPP) Units Nos. 1 and 2, in which FPL has a joint ownership interest, has a coal supply and transportation contract for all of the 2012 fuel needs and a portion of the 2013 and 2014 fuel needs for those units.  All of the transportation requirements and a portion of the coal supply needs for Scherer Unit No. 4, the other coal unit in which FPL has a joint ownership interest, are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts.  The remaining fuel requirements for these units will be obtained in the spot market.  See Note 14 - Contracts.



Modernization Projects.FPL is in the process of modernizing its Cape Canaveral and Riviera Beach power plants to high-efficiency natural gas-fired units and expects the units to be placed in service by June 2013 and by 2014, respectively.  Each modernized plant is expected to provide approximately 1,200 mw of capacity.  In November 2011, FPL filed a need petition with the FPSC to modernize its Port Everglades power plant to a high-efficiency natural gas-fired unit.  The modernized Port Everglades unit is expected to provide approximately 1,280 mw of capacity, be in service in 2016 and cost approximately $1.2 billion.  The modernization of the Port Everglades plant is contingent upon, among other things, FPSC approval.  An FPSC decision regarding the modernization of the Port Everglades plant is expected in late March 2012.



Nuclear Operations



At December 31, 2011, FPL owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,970 mw.

FacilitymwOperating LicenseExpiration DatesSt. Lucie Unit No. 18392036St. Lucie Unit No. 27452043Turkey Point Unit No. 36932032Turkey Point Unit No. 46932033



FPL has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from March 2012 through 2022.  See Note 14 - Contracts.  NRC regulations require FPL to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation.  FPL's current plans, under the applicable operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively.  Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 commencing in 2043.  See Management's Discussion - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil/Solar Dismantlement.



Projects to Add Additional Capacity.FPL is in the process of adding approximately 450 mw to 490 mw of capacity at its existing nuclear units at St. Lucie and Turkey Point, which is expected to result in significant fuel cost savings compared to other sources of generation over the lives of the units. The additional capacity is projected to be placed in service by 2013; approximately 31 mw were placed in service in May 2011 at St. Lucie Unit No. 2.  As part of the conditions of certification by the FDEP for the Turkey Point project, FPL was required to implement a monitoring plan in and around the Turkey Point cooling canals due to concerns over potential saltwater intrusion beyond FPL's property.  Monitoring under the plan includes collection of data prior to and after the additional capacity is placed in service.  Data for the first year has been collected and provided to the FDEP.  The ultimate results of the monitoring plan are uncertain, and the financial and operational impacts on FPL, if any, cannot be determined at this time.  In 2008, the FPSC approved FPL's need petition for two additional nuclear units at its Turkey Point site.  The two units combined are expected to add approximately 2,200 mw of capacity and have projected in-service dates between 2022 and 2023.  Additional approvals from other regulatory agencies will be required later in the development process.



Nuclear Unit Scheduled Refueling Outages.FPL's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications.  Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time.  The scheduled nuclear refueling outages









for 2012 are all expanded scope outages related to the addition of capacity at the existing nuclear units which are expected to require the unit to be removed from service for between 110 and 160 days.  The following table summarizes each unit's current or next scheduled refueling outage:

FacilityBeginning of Current or NextScheduled Refueling OutageSt. Lucie Unit No. 1November 2011St. Lucie Unit No. 2August 2012Turkey Point Unit No. 3February 2012Turkey Point Unit No. 4November 2012



Disposition of Spent Nuclear Fuel.FPL's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to allow FPL to store spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration.



Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended (Nuclear Waste Policy Act), the DOE is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste.  As required by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, FPL is a party to contracts with the DOE to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its nuclear units.



The DOE was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants.  The DOE did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act.  In 2009, FPL and certain nuclear plant joint owners entered into a settlement agreement (spent fuel settlement agreement) with the U.S. government agreeing to dismiss with prejudice lawsuits filed against the U.S. government seeking damages caused by the DOE's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from FPL's nuclear plants.  The spent fuel settlement agreement permits FPL to make annual filings to recover certain spent fuel storage costs incurred by FPL which are payable by the U.S. government on an annual basis.  In a separate lawsuit filed in 2011, FPL joined the Nuclear Energy Institute and several other nuclear plant owners and operators in petitioning the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (D.C. Circuit) to challenge the DOE's decision to continue to collect the nuclear waste fee, which petition is pending.  FPL will continue to pay fees to the U.S. government's nuclear waste fund pending the D.C. Circuit's decision on the fee suspension petition.



In March 2010, the DOE filed a motion with the NRC to withdraw its license application for a nuclear waste repository at Yucca Mountain.  The DOE's withdrawal motion has been challenged and is being litigated before the NRC and the D.C. Circuit.  In light of the Obama Administration's decision not to proceed with the Yucca Mountain repository project, the DOE established a Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future (BRC) to conduct a comprehensive review of policies for managing the back end of the nuclear fuel cycle and to provide recommendations for developing a safe, long-term solution to managing spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste.  In January 2012, the BRC issued its report and recommendations which include a consent-based approach, working with all affected units of government, to siting future nuclear waste management facilities, creation of a new organization, independent of the DOE, dedicated solely to assuring the safe storage and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste, providing access to the U.S. government's nuclear waste fund for the purpose of nuclear waste storage and disposal and initiating prompt efforts to develop geologic disposal facilities, consolidated interim storage facilities and transportation to those facilities.  The BRC's recommendations are not expected to result in any immediate change to the nuclear waste management and disposal situation.



Recent Nuclear Developments.





The lessons learned from the events in Japan and the results of the NRC's review of the NRC staff's recommendations may, among other things, result in changes in or new licensing and safety-related requirements for U.S. nuclear facilities.  Changes in or new requirements could, among other things, impact the capacity additions (uprates) at FPL's existing nuclear units at St. Lucie and











Solar Operations



Solar generation can be provided primarily through two conventions, utility-owned and customer-owned.  In utility-owned solar generation, the energy generated goes directly to the transmission grid, whereas, customer-owned solar generation goes directly to the location it is serving.  There are two principal solar technologies used for utility-scale projects: photovoltaic and thermal.  FPL placed its first utility-scale solar generating facility into service in 2009 and placed two additional solar generating facilities in service in 2010.  FPL's three solar generating facilities consist of a 25 mw solar PV facility in DeSoto County, Florida, a 10 mw solar PV facility in Brevard County, Florida and a 75 mw solar thermal facility in Martin County, Florida.



Purchased Power



In addition to owning generation facilities, FPL also purchases electricity from other utilities to meet customer demand through long- and short-term purchased power agreements.  As of December 31, 2011, FPL's long-term purchased power agreements provided for the purchase of approximately 2,190 mw of power with expiration dates ranging from May 2012 through 2034.  See Note 14 - Contracts.  FPL also procures short-term capacity for both economic and reliability purposes.



FPL ENERGY MARKETING AND TRADING



FPL's Energy Marketing & Trading division (EMT) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity.  EMT procures natural gas and oil for FPL's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity.  EMT also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity.  Substantially all of the results of EMT's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses.  See FPL Regulation - FPL Rate Regulation below, Management's Discussion - Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity and Note 3.



FPL REGULATION



FPL's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following:



•The FPSC, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things.

•The FERC, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of facilities, transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things.

•The NERC, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the FERC, to ensure the reliability of the U.S. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts.

•The NRC, which has jurisdiction over the operation of  FPL's nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders.  See FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations above.

•The EPA, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws.  The EPA also works with industries and all levels of government in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts.



FPL Rate Regulation



The FPSC sets rates at a level that is intended to allow FPL the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to FPL's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital.  To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses.











Base Rates.In general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system.  These basic costs include O&M expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on FPL's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base).  At the time base rates are determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the FPSC's determination of FPL's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed ROE.  The FPSC monitors FPL's actual regulatory ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with the FPSC.  The FPSC does not provide assurance that any ROE will be achieved.  Base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings, which occur at the initiative of FPL, the FPSC, the State of Florida Office of Public Counsel or a substantially affected party.  Base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the FPSC.



Effective March 1, 2010, pursuant to an FPSC final order (FPSC rate order) new retail base rates for FPL were established, resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of approximately $75 million on an annualized basis.  The FPSC rate order also established a regulatory ROE of 10.0% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points and an adjusted regulatory equity ratio of 59.1%.  It also shifted certain costs from retail base rates to the capacity clause.  (See Cost Recovery Clauses below for additional information regarding the capacity clause.)  In addition, the FPSC rate order directed FPL to reduce depreciation expense (surplus depreciation credit) over the 2010 to 2013 period related to a depreciation reserve surplus.  In February 2011, the FPSC issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement agreement between FPL, the State of Florida Office of Public Counsel, the Florida Attorney General's Office and all other principal parties in FPL's 2009 rate case regarding FPL's base rates (2010 rate agreement), which enables FPL to earn a regulatory ROE of up to 11% per year over the term of the 2010 rate agreement.  Key elements of the 2010 rate agreement, which is effective through December 31, 2012, are as follows:



•Subject to the provisions of the 2010 rate agreement, retail base rates are effectively frozen through the end of 2012.

•Incremental cost recovery through FPL's capacity clause for the new combined-cycle natural gas unit at WCEC (WCEC Unit No. 3), which was placed in service in May 2011, is permitted up to the amount of the projected annual fuel savings for customers during the term of the 2010 rate agreement.

•Future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an accelerated basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that produces a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery.  Any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years.  If storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, FPL may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover the amount above $800 million.

•If FPL's earned regulatory ROE falls below 9%, FPL may seek retail base rate relief.  If FPL's earned regulatory ROE rises above 11%, any party to the 2010 rate agreement may seek a reduction in FPL's retail base rates.  In determining the regulatory ROE for all purposes under the 2010 rate agreement, earnings will be calculated on an actual, non-weather-adjusted basis.

•FPL can vary the amount of surplus depreciation credit taken in any calendar year up to a cap in 2010 of $267 million, a cap in subsequent years of $267 million plus the amount of any unused portion from prior years, and a total cap of $776 million (surplus depreciation credit cap) over the course of the 2010 rate agreement, provided that in any year of the 2010 rate agreement FPL must use at least enough surplus depreciation credit to maintain a 9% earned regulatory ROE but may not use any amount of surplus depreciation credit that would result in an earned regulatory ROE in excess of 11%.



In January 2012, FPL notified the FPSC of its intent to initiate a base rate proceeding in 2012.  See Recent Regulatory Developments below.



Cost Recovery Clauses.Cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange expenses, conservation and certain environmental-related expenses, certain revenue taxes and franchise fees.  Beginning in 2009, pre-construction costs and carrying charges on construction costs for FPL's planned two additional nuclear units at Turkey Point and carrying charges on construction costs for FPL's approximately 450 mw to 490 mw of additional capacity at St. Lucie and Turkey Point are also recoverable through a cost recovery clause.  Also beginning in 2009, costs incurred for FPL's three solar generating facilities are recoverable through a cost recovery clause.  Cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class.  These cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs in the current year.  An adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates.



Fuel costs are recovered from customers through the fuel clause, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses.  FPL uses a risk management fuel procurement program which has been approved by the FPSC.  The FPSC reviews the program activities and results for prudence annually as part of its review of fuel costs.  The program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPL's fuel requirements.  See FPL Energy Marketing and Trading above, Management's Discussion - FPL: Results of Operations, Note 1 - Regulation and Note 3.



Capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause.  In accordance with the FPSC's nuclear cost recovery rule, FPL also recovers pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax AFUDC rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity clause.  As property related to the new nuclear capacity goes into service, construction costs and a return on investment are recovered through base rate increases effective beginning the following January.  See FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations above.  In









accordance with the 2010 rate agreement, cost recovery for WCEC Unit No. 3, which was placed in service in May 2011, is permitted up to the amount of the projected annual fuel savings for customers during the term of the 2010 rate agreement through FPL's capacity clause and is reported as retail base revenues.



Costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause.  Certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 and costs associated with FPL's three solar facilities are recovered through the environmental compliance cost recovery clause (environmental clause).



The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred.  These costs may include, among others, fuel and O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities.



FERC



The Federal Power Act gives the FERC exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce.  Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the FERC which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of FERC-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services.  The Federal Power Act also gives the FERC authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to develop mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of bulk-power systems.  The FERC also approves reliability standards and makes them enforceable.  See NERC below.  Electric utilities also are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the FERC.  The FERC also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates.



NERC



The NERC has been certified by the FERC as the national electric reliability organization.  The NERC ensures the reliability and security of the North American bulk power system.  The NERC's regional entities establish requirements, approved by the FERC, for reliable operation and maintenance of power generation facilities and transmission systems.  FPL is subject to these reliability requirements and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them.  Each NERC region reports seasonally and annually on the status of generation and transmission in each region.



FPL Environmental Regulation



FPL is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues, described in the NEE Environmental Matters section below.  FPL expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations.



During 2011, FPL spent approximately $117 million on capital additions related to environmental matters, primarily to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations.  FPL's capital expenditures related to environmental matters are estimated to total approximately $325 million for 2012 through 2014, including $118 million in 2012.



Recent Regulatory Developments



In January 2012, FPL filed a formal notification with the FPSC indicating its intent to initiate a base rate proceeding.  The notification stated that, based on preliminary estimates, FPL expects to request a base rate increase of approximately $525 million effective January 2013 and an additional base rate increase of approximately $170 million annually commencing when the modernized Cape Canaveral plant becomes operational, which is expected to occur in June 2013.  FPL expects to propose an allowed regulatory ROE of 11.25% with a 0.25% ROE adder, which is included in the base rate increase FPL expects to request, if FPL maintains the lowest typical residential customer bill among all the electric utilities in Florida. FPL expects to file its formal request to initiate a base rate proceeding before the end of the first quarter of 2012 with a final FPSC decision expected in the fourth quarter of 2012 in time for new rates to be effective January 1, 2013.



FPL EMPLOYEES



FPL had approximately 9,800 employees at December 31, 2011.  Approximately 31% of the employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) under a collective bargaining agreement with FPL that expires October 31, 2014.













II.  NEER



NEER was formed in 1998 to aggregate NEE's competitive energy businesses.  It is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEECH.  Through its subsidiaries, NEER currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generating facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the U.S., as well as in Canada and Spain.  See Note 15.  NEER is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the U.S., with 16,607 mw of generating capacity across 22 states and 3 Canadian provinces as of December 31, 2011.  NEER produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below.  NEER is the largest owner of wind and solar energy projects in the U.S. and one of the largest owners and developers of wind projects in Canada.  Since 2002, NEER has more than doubled its generating capacity, primarily through the development of new wind projects and acquisition of nuclear projects.



In addition, NEER provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets, offers customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers and engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities.  NEER also owns a retail electricity provider serving customers in 13 states and the District of Columbia andengages in limited development of natural gas reserves, as well as pipeline infrastructure, through non-operating ownership interests, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business.



MARKETS AND COMPETITION



Electricity markets in the U.S. are regional and diverse in character.  All are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation.  The nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region, and the degree of control participants have over pricing also varies.  Generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, NEER may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products.  NEER's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities is also constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing.



The degree and nature of competition that NEER faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets.  The majority of NEER's revenue, roughly 90%, is derived from wholesale markets.



Wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants.  NEER competes on the basis of the location of its plants and ownership of multiple plants in various regions, which increases the reliability of its energy supply.  Wholesale power generation is a regional business that is currently highly fragmented relative to other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure.  As such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies NEER competes with depending on the market.  In wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services.



In general, U.S. electricity markets encompass three classes of product: energy, capacity and ancillary services.  Energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of mw capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services related to power generation assets, for example, load-following services, which require the supplier of energy to vary the quantity delivered based on the load demand needs of the customer.  The exact nature of these classes of product is defined in part by regulation.  Not all regions have a capacity product class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region.



RTOs and ISOs exist in a number of regions within which NEER operates to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas.  NEER also has operations that fall within the Western Electricity Coordinating Council reliability region that are not under the jurisdiction of an established RTO or ISO.  Although each RTO and ISO may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers.  NEER has operations that fall within the following RTOs and ISOs:



•Alberta Electric System Operator

•California Independent System Operator

•ERCOT

•Independent Electricity System Operator

•ISO New England

•Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator (MISO)

•New York Independent System Operator (NYISO)

•PJM

•Southwest Power Pool















NEER competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generating facilities, and approximately 55% of NEER's generating capacity is fully committed under long-term contracts.  In some regions long-term contracts are not practical and NEER sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets.  In such cases, NEER will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically but not always of one to three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market.  Such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, may only protect a portion of the revenue that NEER expects to derive from the associated generation facility and may not qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP.  Contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under GAAP are referred to as “non-qualifying hedges” for adjusted earnings purposes.  See Management's Discussion - Overview.



While the majority of NEER's revenue is derived from the output of its generating facilities, NEER is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and gas products and services to a variety of customers.  In the full requirements service, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day for a fixed period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements.



The deregulated retail energy business is typically a highly competitive business.  In general, competition in the retail energy business is on the basis of price, service, brand image, product offerings and market perceptions of creditworthiness.  Electricity is sold pursuant to a variety of product types, including fixed, indexed and renewable products, and customers elect terms of service typically ranging from one month to five years.  Retail energy rates are market-based, and not subject to traditional cost-of-service regulation by public service commissions.  Non-affiliated transmission and distribution service companies provide, on a non-discriminatory basis, the wires and metering services necessary to access customers.  Subsidiaries of NEER compete in certain states for retail customers, which can be divided into two principal segments: residential and commercial and industrial (C&I).  Residential customers largely require only energy services, which may be purchased on a month-to-month basis or under a multi-year contract.  Large C&I customers share many of the same characteristics as wholesale utility customers and may require similarly customized and structured products.



In general, competitive retail electric providers are exposed to both volume and price risk: customers' volumes will vary, and competitive retail providers are committed to supplying the customer's full needs at all times and are therefore responsible for purchases in wholesale markets to meet those needs; and wholesale prices will fluctuate in ways that do not necessarily match the retail prices committed to the customer.



Expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for NEER.  Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets.  NEER seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities.















GENERATION AND OTHER OPERATIONS



The vast majority of NEER's revenue is derived from selling the products (energy, capacity and ancillary services) produced by its own generating facilities.  To a limited extent, NEER also meets its customers' needs through purchases of relevant products in wholesale markets and may combine purchases with sales from its own assets in order to meet particular customers' needs.



At December 31, 2011, the locations of NEER's generation facilities in North America are as follows:







At December 31, 2011, NEER managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its projects in which it has an ownership interest.



NEER categorizes its portfolio in a number of different ways for different business purposes.  See a listing of NEER's generating facilities in Item 2 - Generating Facilities.  The following combination of the presence/absence of long-term contracts, fuel/technology and region is a common presentation that NEE has used in communicating its business:



Contracted, Merchant and Other Operations



NEER's portfolio of operations based on the presence/absence of long-term contracts and other operations is described below.



Contracted Assets.Contracted assets are projects with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their output and certain wind assets where long-term power contracts are expected to be executed.  At December 31, 2011, NEER had 9,647 mw of contracted assets, substantially all of which have long-term power contracts.  Essentially all of the output of these contracted assets were under power sales agreements, with a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 16 years, and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from March 2012 through 2022.  See Note 14 - Contracts.  Approximately 6,860 mw of this capacity is wind generation and 1,621 mw of this capacity is nuclear generation.  The remaining 1,166 mw use a variety of fuels and technologies such as natural gas, oil and solar.



Merchant Assets.Merchant assets are projects that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output, or, in the case of certain wind assets,  are not expected to have long-term power contracts, and therefore require active marketing and hedging.  At December 31, 2011, NEER's portfolio of merchant assets consists of 6,960 mw of owned wind, nuclear, natural gas, oil, solar and hydro generation facilities, including 846 mw of peak generating facilities.  Approximately 60% (based on net mw capacity) of the natural gas-fueled merchant assets have natural gas transportation agreements to provide for fluctuating natural











gas requirements.  See Note 14 - Contracts. Derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) are used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases.  Managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty, credit and operational risks.



Other.NEER's operations also include the gas infrastructure and customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses.  See NEER Customer Supply and Proprietary Power and Gas Trading below.



NEER Fuel/Technology Mix



NEER's generating capacity is produced using a variety of fuel sources as further described below.







Wind Facilities



At December 31, 2011, NEER had ownership interests in wind generating facilities with a total capacity of 8,569 mw (net ownership).  NEER operates substantially all of these wind facilities, which are located in 17 states and Canada.  NEER added 379 mw of new wind generation in 2011, including 128 mw related to the repowering of two California wind facilities, and expects to add approximately 1,150 mw to 1,500 mw of new wind generation in 2012.



Natural Gas Facilities



At December 31, 2011, NEER had 3,991 mw of natural gas assets.  NEER owns and operates 1,004 mw of natural gas-fired generation from contracted assets located throughout the Northeast.  During 2011, subsidiaries of NEER sold their ownership interests in a portfolio of natural gas-fired generating assets totaling approximately 2,700 mw of capacity located in California, Virginia, Alabama, South Carolina and Rhode Island.  See Management's Discussion - Overview and Note 4 - Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements.



Nuclear Facilities



At December 31, 2011, NEER owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,721 mw.



FacilityLocationmwPortfolioCategoryOperating LicenseExpiration DatesSeabrookNew Hampshire1,100Merchant2030(a)Duane ArnoldIowa431Contracted(b)2034Point Beach Unit No. 1Wisconsin595Contracted(c)2030Point Beach Unit No. 2Wisconsin595Contracted(c)2033

__________________

(a)In 2010, NEER filed an application with the NRC to renew Seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years.

(b)NEER sells substantially all of its share of the output of Duane Arnold under a long-term contract expiring in 2014.

(c)NEER sells all of the output of Point Beach Units Nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through the current operating license terms.













NEER's nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply of uranium and conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from March 2012 through 2022.  See Note 14 - Contracts.  NEER is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly owned units.  NRC regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation.  See estimated decommissioning cost data in Management's Discussion - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil/Solar Dismantlement.



Nuclear Unit Scheduled Refueling Outages.NEER's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications.  Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time.  The duration is longer for expanded scope outages, one of which is scheduled at Duane Arnold in 2012 and is expected to last approximately 60 days.  The following table summarizes the next scheduled refueling outages:



FacilityNext ScheduledRefueling OutageSeabrookOctober 2012Duane ArnoldOctober 2012Point Beach Unit No. 1April 2013Point Beach Unit No. 2November 2012



Disposition of Spent Nuclear Fuel.NEER's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to allow NEER to store spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration.



As owners and operators of nuclear facilities, certain subsidiaries of NEER are subject to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act and are parties to the spent fuel settlement agreement and legal actions described in I. FPL - Nuclear Operations.  Similar to FPL, these subsidiaries will continue to pay fees to the U.S. government's nuclear waste fund pending the D.C. Circuit's decision on the fee suspension petition.



Recent Nuclear Developments.For discussion of current developments regarding the impact of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan as it relates to U.S. nuclear facilities, see I. FPL - Nuclear Operations.  NEER's nuclear facilities are subject to the same potential NRC actions as described for FPL.  Duane Arnold is NEER's only boiling water reactor unit.  NEER is currently reviewing the NRC's directions relating to the NRC staff's recommendations and assessing the potential financial and operational impact on its nuclear units.



Solar Facilities



NEER is one of the largest owners of utility-scale solar energy projects in the U.S., principally through a 310 mw facility in California's Mojave Desert, of which 148 mw is owned by NEER as of December 31, 2011.  NEER is in the process of constructing solar thermal facilities with generating capacity of 99.8 mw in Spain (Spain solar project) and 250 mw in California (Genesis solar project), which are expected to be completed in 2013 and 2014, respectively.  In addition, a 550 mw solar PV project in California (Desert Sunlight solar project), in which NEER has a 50% equity investment, has commenced construction and commercial operation is expected to be phased in during 2013 through 2015.  During 2011, NEER added approximately 5 mw of new solar generation.



Other Assets



At December 31, 2011, NEER had 1,168 mw of generation assets from a variety of other fuel technologies, including oil and hydropower, with facilities located throughout the Northeast.















NEER Generation by Geographic Region



NEER's generating capacity spans various geographic regions in North America, thereby reducing overall volatility related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio basis. NEER's generating facilities at December 31, 2011 are categorized by geographic region (See Item 2 - Generating Facilities) in terms of mw of capacity as follows:







NEER's power generation in terms of mwh produced for the year ended December 31, 2011 by fuel type is as follows:







NEER CUSTOMER SUPPLY AND PROPRIETARY POWER AND GAS TRADING



PMI, a subsidiary of NEER, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as electricity, natural gas and oil.  PMI sells the output from NEER's plants that has not been sold under long-term contracts and procures the non-nuclear fuel for use by NEER's generation fleet.  Its primary role is to manage the commodity risk of NEER's portfolio.  PMI uses derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of NEER's power generation assets.



PMI also provides a wide range of electricity and gas commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to electric and gas utilities, municipalities, cooperatives and other load-serving entities, as well as to owners of electric generation facilities.  PMI's customer supply business includes providing full energy and capacity requirements and mid-marketing services that include sales and purchases of wholesale commodities-related products and the operations of a retail electricity provider, which during 2011, served approximately 2,200 mw of peak load to approximately 201,800 customers across the ERCOT, New England Power Pool (NEPOOL), PJM, NYISO and MISO markets.













The results of PMI's activities are included in NEER's operating results.  See Management's Discussion - Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity, Note 1 - Energy Trading and Note 3.



NEER REGULATION



Each of the energy markets in which NEER operates is subject to domestic and foreign regulation, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules.



At December 31, 2011, NEER had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the U.S. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, which represent approximately 95% of NEER's net generating capacity.  Exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers.  They are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers.  NEER's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, hydro, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities.  Essentially all of the remaining 5% of NEER's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under PURPA.  NEER's qualifying facilities generate electricity primarily from wind, solar and fossil fuels.  Qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the Federal Power Act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities.  While projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws.



Additionally, NEER facilities located in the U.S. are subject to FERC regulations and market rules, the NERC's mandatory reliability standards and the EPA's environmental laws, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC.  See FPL - FPL Regulation for additional discussion of FERC, NERC, NRC, and EPA regulations.  With the exception of facilities located in ERCOT, the FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of NEER's business, including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, regulation of hydro projects and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas and hydro projects and major electricity policy initiatives.  The PUCT has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over NEER facilities located in ERCOT.



NEER is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues related to renewable energy resources as described in the NEE Environmental Matters section below.  In order to better anticipate these potential regulatory changes, NEER continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities.



NEER EMPLOYEES



NEER and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,700 employees at December 31, 2011.  Subsidiaries of NEER have collective bargaining agreements with various unions which are summarized in the table below.

UnionLocationContractExpiration Date% of NEER'sEmployees CoveredIBEWWisconsinJune 2012 - September 2013(a)10%Utility Workers Union of AmericaNew HampshireDecember 20135IBEWIowaMay 20123Security Police and Fire Professionals of AmericaIowaJuly 20122IBEWMaineFebruary 20132IBEWCaliforniaMarch 2012-(b)Total22%______________________

(a)Various employees at Point Beach are represented by the IBEW under four separate contracts with different expiration dates.

(b)Less than 1% of NEER's employees.



In addition, the employees of an operating project in Illinois, constituting less than 1% of NEER's employees, are represented by the International Union of Operating Engineers, which is currently negotiating its first collective bargaining agreement.





III. OTHER NEE OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES



NEE's Corporate and Other segment represents other business activities, primarily FPL FiberNet and Lone Star, that are not separately reportable.  See Note 15.



FPL FIBERNET



FPL FiberNet conducts its business through two separate wholly-owned subsidiaries of NEECH.  One subsidiary was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of NEE's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support FPL operations and the other was formed in 2011 to hold fiber-optic network assets which were acquired.  Both subsidiaries are limited liability companies organized under the laws of Delaware.  FPL FiberNet leases fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to FPL and other customers,









primarily telephone, wireless, internet and other telecommunications companies.  FPL FiberNet's networks cover most of the metropolitan areas in Florida and several in Texas.  FPL FiberNet also has a long-haul network providing bandwidth at wholesale rates.  The long-haul network connects major cities in Florida and Texas with additional connectivity to Atlanta, Georgia and the South Central U.S., including Arkansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma.  At December 31, 2011, FPL FiberNet's network consisted of approximately 7,800 route miles.  FPL FiberNet is subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission which has jurisdiction over wire and wireless communication networks and by the public utility commissions in the states in which it provides intrastate telecommunication services.



LONE STAR



Lone Star, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of NEECH, is constructing approximately320miles of 345 kv transmission lines and other associated facilities in Texas.  Lone Star, a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware, is a rate-regulated transmission service provider in Texas.  Two substations and associated facilities with a total capital investment of approximately $60 million are expected to be placed in service in 2012, with the remaining associated facilities and transmission lines expected to be placed in service in the first quarter of 2013, for a total capital investment of approximately $785 million.  Lone Star's transmission lines are part of a transmission grid improvement program that will add approximately 2,300 miles of 345 kv lines to deliver power from the Competitive Renewable Energy Zones in west Texas and the Texas panhandle to the Dallas/Fort Worth area and other population centers in Texas.  Lone Star will own the transmission lines and associated facilities and operate them after they are placed in service.



Lone Star is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the PUCT, the ERCOT, the NERC and the EPA, as well as certain limited regulations of the FERC.  See I. FPL - FPL Regulation for further discussion of FERC, NERC, and EPA regulations and NEE Environmental Matters.  The PUCT has jurisdiction over a wide range of Lone Star's business activities, including, among others, rates charged to customers and certain aspects of siting, construction and operation of transmission systems.  The PUCT sets rates at a level that allows Lone Star the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to Lone Star's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital.



In January 2012, Lone Star filed a petition with the PUCT requesting, among other things, interim rates that would take effect when Lone Star's first substation is placed in service and final rates when the transmission lines are energized.  The petition also proposes to limit cost recovery to Lone Star's actual capital costs by making a true-up filing within 120 days of energizing the transmission lines.  If approved, based on the expected in-service dates, the requested rates would result in annual revenues of approximately $14 million in 2012 and $110 million in 2013. Lone Star's requested rates are based on a proposed regulatory ROE of 11% with a regulatory equity ratio of 52%.  Hearings on this rate proceeding are expected during the second quarter of 2012 and a final decision is expected during the third quarter of 2012.  The interim rates would be subject to refund pending the final decision on the rate proceeding.  The PUCT has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred.



NEE ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



NEE and FPL are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules, and regulations.  The U.S. Congress and certain states and regions continue to consider several legislative and regulatory proposals with respect to GHG emissions.  The economic and operational impact of climate change legislation on NEE and FPL depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the allowed emissions, whether emission allowances will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance.  Based on the most recent reference data available from government sources, NEE is among the lowest emitters, among electric generators, of GHG in the U.S. measured by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of CO2per mwh of generation.  However, the legislative and regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on FPL's and NEER's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to NEE and FPL could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted or specific implementation rules adopted.



I. Environmental Regulations



The following is a discussion of certain existing and emerging federal and state initiatives and rules, some of which could potentially have a material effect (either positive or negative) on NEE and its subsidiaries.  FPL expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations.



•Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS).In December 2011, the EPA issued a final MATS rule as required under the Clean Air Act which requires coal-fired and oil-fired generating units to reduce emissions of hazardous air pollutants.  The MATS rule includes a limited use provision which excludes low-capacity generating units from the requirements to add pollution control equipment, under which three oil-fired units at FPL and four oil-fired units at NEER are expected to qualify.  Based on the provisions of the rule, four oil-fired units and two coal-fired units at FPL are in the process of adding or could be required to add additional pollution control equipment to meet Maximum Achievable Control Technology standards.  A third coal-fired unit at FPL is in the process of adding additional pollution control equipment to meet certain state compliance requirements which would also satisfy the Maximum Achievable Control Technology standards under the MATS rule.  Units affected by the rule will









be required to comply by April 2015, with a possible one year extension for compliance if required to install pollution control equipment.



•Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR)/Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR).The EPA's CAIR requires SO2and NOx emissions reductions from electric generating units in specified Eastern states and the District of Columbia, where the emissions from electric generating units are deemed to be transported to downwind states.  NEER and FPL began complying with the CAIR on January 1, 2009.  In July 2011, the EPA issued the CSAPR, a final rule which was to replace the CAIR beginning in January 2012.  The CSAPR would limit emissions of SO2and NOx from power plants in 28 eastern states and provides an allocation methodology for emission allowances and reduction limits for SO2and NOx beginning in January 2012 and seasonal ozone requirements beginning in May 2012, with a second phase of reductions beginning in January 2014.  FPL would only be affected by the seasonal ozone requirements of the rule while NEER would be affected by the annual SO2and NOx emissions requirements as well as the seasonal ozone requirements in several states.  Several groups have petitioned the EPA to reconsider the CSAPR and in December 2011, the D.C. Circuit issued an order staying implementation of the CSAPR pending resolution of legal challenges to the rule and ordered that the CAIR remain in place while the CSAPR is stayed.  The case is scheduled for oral argument in April 2012.  The ultimate resolution of the issues surrounding the CSAPR is uncertain at this time.



•Clean Water Act Section 316(b).In March 2011, the EPA issued a proposed rule under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act to address the location, design, construction and capacity of intake structures at existing power plants with once-through cooling water systems, with a final rule not expected until the summer of 2012.  The proposed rule is intended to require the Best Technology Available to reduce the impact on aquatic organisms from once-through cooling water intake systems.  Under the proposed rule, potentially thirteen of FPL's facilities and five of NEER's facilities may be required to add additional controls or make operational changes to comply, the economic and operational impact of which cannot be determined at this time, but could be material.  Prior to the passage of a new rule, states are continuing to utilize “Best Professional Judgment” in the application of Section 316(b) compliance requirements.





•

Avian/Bat Regulations and Wind Turbine Siting Guidelines.

NEER and FPL are subject to numerous environmental regulations and guidelines related to threatened and endangered species and their habitats,



as well as avian and bat species, for the siting, construction and





•Regulation of GHG Emissions.Pursuant to rules issued by the EPA under the Clean Air Act, new facilities emitting 100,000 tons per year (tpy) or more of GHG and modifications to existing facilities resulting in an increase of GHG emissions of 75,000 tpy or more have to perform a Best Available Control Technology review and, based on that review, may have to reduce emissions by adding additional emissions control equipment or implementing energy efficiency projects.  Several petitioners have challenged the EPA's GHG regulations and the case is pending review by the D.C. Circuit, the timing and ultimate outcome of which is uncertain at this time.  At FPL, the modernization of the Port Everglades facility, if approved by the FPSC, would be affected by this rule, the impact of which cannot be determined at this time.





II. Other GHG Emissions Reduction Initiatives



NEER's plants operate in certain states and regions that continue to consider and implement regulatory proposals to reduce GHG emissions.  RPS, currently in place in approximately 30 states and the District of Columbia, require electricity providers in the state or district to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources.  These standards vary, but the majority include requirements to meet 10% to 25% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025.  NEER's plants operate in 18 statesthat have a RPS and NEER believes that these standards will create incremental demand for renewable energy in the future.



Other GHG reduction initiatives including, among others, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and the California Greenhouse Gas Regulation aim to reduce emissions through a variety of programs and under varying timelines.  Based on its clean generating portfolio, NEER expects to continue experiencing a positive impact on earnings as a result of these GHG reduction initiatives.  Additionally, these initiatives provide NEER opportunities with regards to wind and solar development as well as favorable energy pricing.











WEBSITE ACCESS TO SEC FILINGS



NEE and FPL make their SEC filings, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on NEE's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The information and materials available on NEE's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined annual report on Form 10-K.  The SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.













EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF NEE(a)







NameAgePositionEffective Date

Christopher A. Bennett53Executive Vice President & Chief Strategy, Policy & Business Process Improvement Officer of NEEFebruary 15, 2008(b)

Paul I. Cutler52Treasurer of NEETreasurer of FPLAssistant Secretary of NEE and FPLFebruary 19, 2003February 18, 2003December 10, 1997

Moray P. Dewhurst56Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and Executive Vice President - Finance of NEEExecutive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPLOctober 5, 2011

Shaun J. Francis40Executive Vice President, Human Resources of NEEExecutive Vice President, Human Resources of FPLAugust 16, 2010January 31, 2011

Chris N. Froggatt54Vice President of NEEController and Chief Accounting Officer of NEEOctober 19, 2009February 27, 2010

Lewis Hay, III56Chief Executive Officer of NEEChairman of NEE and FPLJune 11, 2001January 1, 2002

Joseph T. Kelliher51Executive Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs of NEEMay 18, 2009

Robert L. McGrath58Executive Vice President, Engineering, Construction & Corporate Services of NEE and FPLFebruary 21, 2005(b)

Manoochehr K. Nazar57Executive Vice President, Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of NEEExecutive Vice President, Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of FPLJanuary 1, 2010January 15, 2010

Armando J. Olivera62Chief Executive Officer of FPLJuly 17, 2008

Armando Pimentel, Jr.49President and Chief Executive Officer of NEEROctober 5, 2011

James L. Robo49President and Chief Operating Officer of NEEDecember 15, 2006

Antonio Rodriguez69Executive Vice President, Power Generation Division of NEEExecutive Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPLJanuary 1, 2007(b)July 1, 1999(b)

Charles E. Sieving39Executive Vice President & General Counsel of NEEExecutive Vice President of FPLDecember 1, 2008January 1, 2009

______________________



(a)

Information is as of

February 27, 2012

(b)NEE title changed from vice president to executive vice president effective May 23, 2008.  Where applicable, FPL title changed from senior vice president to executive vice president effective July 17, 2008.













