Item 1.  Business



NEXTERA ENERGY



NextEra Energy is one of the largest electric power companies in North America and the U.S. leading producer of renewable energy from wind and solar projects.  At December 31, 2010, NextEra Energy had nearly 43,000 mw of generating capacity - approximately 53% natural gas, 19% wind, 13% nuclear, 13% oil and coal, and 2% hydro and solar.  NextEra Energy’s clean generation fleet gives the company significantly lower emissions rates of carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide than the electric power industry as a whole.  In addition to fuel diversity, NextEra Energy has geographic diversity with approximately 15,000 employees overseeing operations in 28 states and Canada.  Wind assets are in service in 17 states and three Canadian provinces.  NextEra Energy also operat
es the third-largest nuclear fleet in the United States with eight units at five plants in four states.



NextEra Energy was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida and has two principal operating subsidiaries, FPL and NextEra Energy Resources.  FPL is a rate-regulated utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in Florida.  NextEra Energy Resources is NextEra Energy's competitive energy subsidiary which produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable fuels.  Capital Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy, holds the capital stock of, or has equity interests in, and provides funding for, NextEra Energy's operating subsidiaries, other than FPL and its subsidiaries, including NextEra Energy Resources.  For a discussion of FPL's and NextEra Energy Resources' businesses, see FPL Operations and NextEra Energy R
esources Operations below.  For financial information regarding NextEra Energy's business segments, see Note 15.



Website Access to SEC Filings.NextEra Energy and FPL make their SEC filings, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on NextEra Energy's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  Information on NextEra Energy's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) is not incorporated by reference in this combined annual report on Form 10-K.  The SEC maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about NextEra Energy and FPL filed electronically with the SEC.<
/font>



FPL OPERATIONS



General.FPL is the largest electric utility in the state of Florida, serving more than 8.7 million people through approximately 4.5 million customer accounts, and one of the largest electric utilities in the United States.  FPL supplies electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida.  Incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925, FPL is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy.



FPL is a vertically integrated, rate-regulated utility with 23,722 mw of generating assets as of December 31, 2010.  FPL’s typical monthly residential customer bill was the lowest of all 55 electricity providers in the state of Florida as of December 31, 2010, and was 24% below the national average as of July 2010, the most recent data available.



During 2010, FPL delivered 99.98% service reliability to its customers, and was in the top quartile nationwide for reliability based on 2009, the most recent data available.  With a generating fleet that produces 78% of its electric power from natural gas and nuclear, FPL is also one the cleanest utilities in the nation, with an overall carbon dioxide emissions rate 35% below the industry average.



During 2010, FPL completed construction of a 75 mw hybrid solar power facility that combines a solar-thermal trough array with an existing combined-cycle natural gas plant.  FPL has 110 mw of solar generating capacity in its portfolio, more than any other utility outside of California.



FPL’s fossil fleet achieved a record level of fuel efficiency in 2010, with a system-wide heat rate of 8,043 British thermal units per kwh compared with 10,060 for the industry as a whole in 2009, the most recent data available.  FPL has maintained operational efficiency as well, with O&M expenses for 2010 of 1.5 cents per kwh, compared with a 2009 industry average of 2.2 cents per kwh.






The percentage of FPL's operating revenues by customer class was as follows:



Years Ended December 31,201020092008Residential54%56%53%Commercial374140Industrial233Wholesale111Other, including deferred or recovered retail clause revenues, the net change in retail unbilled revenues, pole attachment rentals, transmission sales and customer-related fees6(1)3100%100%100%



Regulation.FPL's retail operations provided approximately 98% of FPL's 2010 operating revenues.  Retail operations are regulated by the FPSC, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities and other matters.  FPL is also subject to regulation by the FERC with respect to certain aspects of its operations, including, but not limited to, the acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy.  FPL must also comply with mandatory reliability standards established by the NERC to ensure the reliability of the U.S. electric transmission and generation system and
 to prevent major system blackouts.  In addition, FPL's nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC.  NRC regulations govern the granting of licenses for the construction, operation and maintenance and retirement of nuclear power plants and subject these plants to continuing review and regulation.



Retail Ratemaking.The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital.  To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses.



Base Rates- In general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system.  These basic costs include O&M expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on FPL's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base).  At the time base rates are determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the FPSC's determination of FPL's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed ROE.  The FPSC monitors FPL's actual regulatory ROE through a surveillance report that is filed mon
thly by FPL with the FPSC.  The FPSC does not provide assurance that an allowed ROE will be achieved.  Base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements, which occur at the initiative of FPL, the FPSC, the State of Florida Office of Public Counsel or a substantially affected party.  Base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the FPSC.



Effective March 1, 2010, pursuant to an FPSC final order (FPSC rate order) with regard to FPL’s March 2009 petition (2009 rate case) that requested, among other things, a permanent base rate increase, new retail base rates for FPL were established, resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of approximately $75 million on an annualized basis.  The FPSC rate order also established a regulatory ROE of 10.0% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points and an adjusted regulatory equity ratio of 59.1%, and shifted certain costs from retail base rates to the capacity clause.  In addition, the FPSC rate order directed FPL to reduce depreciation expense (surplus depreciation credit) over the 2010 to 2013 period related to a depreciation reserve surplus.  In August 2010, FPL, the State of Flori
da Office of Public Counsel, the Florida Attorney General's Office and all other principal parties in FPL's 2009 rate case signed a stipulation and settlement regarding FPL's base rates (2010 rate agreement).  In December 2010, the FPSC voted to approve the 2010 rate agreement and on February 1, 2011 issued a final order reflecting its decision to approve the 2010 rate agreement.  Key elements of the 2010 rate agreement, which will be effective through December 31, 2012, are as follows:



·Subject to the provisions of the 2010 rate agreement, retail base rates will be effectively frozen through the end of 2012.·Incremental cost recovery through FPL’s capacity clause for the new combined-cycle natural gas unit at WCEC (WCEC Unit No. 3), which is expected to be placed in service by mid-2011, will be permitted up to the amount of the projected fuel savings for customers during the term of the 2010 rate agreement.  See Fossil Operations below.·Future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an accelerated basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that produces a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kwh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery.  Any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years.  If storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, FPL may request an increase to the $4 surcharge for the amount above $800 million.·If FPL's earned regulatory ROE falls below 9%, FPL may seek retail base rate relief.  If FPL's earned regulatory ROE rises above 11%, any party to the 2010 rate agreement may seek a reduction in FPL’s retail base rates.  In determining the regulatory ROE for all purposes under the 2010 rate agreement, earnings will be calculated on an actual, non-weather-adjusted basis.






·FPL can vary the amount of surplus depreciation credit taken in any calendar year up to a cap in 2010 of $267 million, a cap in subsequent years of $267 million plus the amount of any unused portion from prior years, and a cap of $776 million (surplus depreciation credit cap) over the course of the 2010 rate agreement, provided that in any year of the 2010 rate agreement, including 2010, FPL must use at least enough surplus depreciation credit to maintain a 9% earned regulatory ROE but may not use any amount of surplus depreciation credit that would result in an earned regulatory ROE in excess of 11%.



Prior to the date new retail base rates were effective pursuant to the FPSC rate order, FPL's retail base rates were determined in accordance with the terms of a rate agreement approved in 2005 (2005 rate agreement), which was effective January 1, 2006.  See Management's Discussion - Overview for a discussion of the 2005 rate agreement.



Cost Recovery Clauses- Cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange expenses, conservation and certain environmental-related expenses, certain revenue taxes and franchise fees.  Beginning in 2009, pre-construction costs and carrying charges for FPL's two additional nuclear units at Turkey Point and carrying charges on construction costs for FPL's approximately 400 mw to 460 mw of additional capacity at St. Lucie and Turkey Point are also recovered through a cost recovery clause.  Also beginning in 2009, costs incurred for FPL's three solar generating facilities are re
covered through a cost recovery clause.  Cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's rate class.  These cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect the variance of actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the adjustment charges for prior periods.  An adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates.



In 2010, fuel clause recoveries were approximately $4.5 billion.  FPL uses a risk management fuel procurement program which was approved by the FPSC.  The FPSC reviews the program activities and results for prudence on an annual basis as part of its annual review of fuel costs.  The program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPL's fuel requirements.  See Energy Marketing and Trading below, Management's Discussion - Results of Operations - FPL, Note 1 - Regulation and Note 3.



Capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are recovered from customers through the capacity clause.  Prior to March 2010, such payments were recovered through the capacity clause and base rates.  In accordance with the FPSC's nuclear cost recovery rule, FPL also recovers pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax AFUDC rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity clause.  As property related to the new capacity goes into service, construction costs are recovered through base rate increases.  See Nuclear Operations below.  In accordance with the 2010 rate agreement, cost recovery for WCEC Unit No. 3, which is expected to be placed in service by mid-2011, will be permitted up to the amount of the pro
jected fuel savings for customers during the term of the 2010 rate agreement through FPL's capacity clause and will be reported as retail base revenues.  See Base Rates above.  In 2010, capacity clause recoveries were approximately $606 million.



Costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from customers through the conservation clause.  In 2010, conservation clause recoveries were approximately $187 million.  Certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 and costs associated with FPL's three solar facilities are recovered through the environmental clause.  In 2010, environmental clause recoveries were approximately $175 million.  See Environmental and Solar Operations below.



The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred.  Such costs may include, among others, fuel and O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities.



Competition.FPL currently holds 176 franchise agreements to provide electric service in various municipalities and counties in Florida with varying expiration dates through 2040.  Of the 176 franchise agreements, 8 expire in 2011, 7 expire in 2012 and 161 expire during the period 2013 through 2040.  Negotiations are ongoing to renew franchises with upcoming expirations.  FPL also provides service to 13 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements.  FPL considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business.



FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers.  The FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes that could affect competition in wholesale transactions.  In 2010, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 3% of FPL's total operating revenues.  Various states, other than Florida, have enacted legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow retail customers to choose their electricity supplier.  Management believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the retail electric industry in Florida in the near future.  If the
 basis of regulation for some or all of FPL's business changes from cost-based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund.  Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment.  See Management's Discussion - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Regulatory Accounting.






The FPSC promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam generating capacity by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, such as FPL, to issue a request for proposal (RFP) except when the FPSC determines that an exception from the RFP process is in the public interest.  The RFP process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity.  If a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC approve the terms of the power purchase agreement and, if appropriate
, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity.  New nuclear power plants are exempt from the RFP requirement.  See Nuclear Operations below regarding the approval by the FPSC for two additional nuclear units at Turkey Point.



Environmental.FPL is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by some of the emerging issues included in the Environmental Matters section.  FPL expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations.



During 2010, FPL spent approximately $181 million on capital additions related to environmental matters, primarily to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations.  FPL's capital expenditures related to environmental matters are estimated to be $228 million for 2011 through 2013, including approximately $122 million in 2011, and are included in estimated planned capital expenditures set forth in Capital Expenditures below.



System Capability and Load.



Fuel Mix.FPL's generating plants use a variety of fuels.  The diverse fuel sources, along with purchased power, are intended to enable FPL to shift between sources of generation to achieve a more economical fuel mix.  See Fossil Operations and Nuclear Operations below, and Item 2 - Generating Facilities.



FPL's 2010 fuel mix based on kwh produced was as follows:



Fuel SourcePercentage ofkwh ProducedNatural gas58%Nuclear20%Purchased power13%Coal5%Oil4%Solar<1%



Fossil Operations.At December 31, 2010, FPL owned and operated 79 units that used fossil fuels such as natural gas and/or oil, and has a joint-ownership interest in three coal units.  These fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity demand.  FPL is currently constructing WCEC Unit No. 3, a natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit of approximately 1,220 mw, which is expected to be placed in service by mid-2011.  FPL is also in the process of modernizing its Cape Canaveral and Riviera Beach power plants to high-efficiency natural gas-fired units and expects the units to be placed in service by 2013 and 2014, respectively.  Each mo
dernized plant is expected to provide approximately 1,200 mw of capacity.  See Capital Expenditures below.






FPL has several firm transportation contracts in place with four different suppliers with expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2036 that together are expected to satisfy substantially all of the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation at its existing units.  To the extent desirable, FPL purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from two suppliers based on pipeline availability.  FPL has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of FPL's anticipated needs for natural gas.  The remainder of FPL's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market.  FPL has a long-term agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2013.  See Note 14 - Contracts.  FPL's oil requirements are obtained under shor
t-term contracts and in the spot market.



FPL has, through its joint ownership interest in St. Johns River Power Park (SJRPP) Units Nos. 1 and 2, a coal supply and transportation contract for all of the 2011 fuel needs and a portion of the 2012 and 2013 fuel needs for those units.  All of the transportation requirements and a portion of the coal supply needs for Scherer Unit No. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts.  FPL's remaining fuel requirements for these units will be obtained in the spot market.  See Note 14 - Contracts.



Nuclear Operations.FPL owns, or has undivided interests in, and operates four nuclear units, two at Turkey Point and two at St. Lucie, with a total net generating capability of 2,939 mw.  The nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications.  Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for approximately 30 days.  This duration is longer for expanded scope outages, three of which are scheduled in 2011 related to the addition of capacity at FPL's existing nuclear units.  The following table summarizes certain information related to FPL's nuclear un
its:



FacilityNetCapability(mw)Operating LicenseExpiration DatesNext ScheduledRefueling OutageSt. Lucie Unit No. 18392036August 2011St. Lucie Unit No. 27142043April 2012Turkey Point Unit No. 36932032January 2012Turkey Point Unit No. 46932033March 2011








FPL uses both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2, which should allow FPL to store all spent nuclear fuel at this facility through license expiration.  FPL currently stores all spent nuclear fuel generated by Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 in on-site storage pools.  These spent nuclear fuel storage pools do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective units.  In July 2011, FPL plans to begin using dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by the Turkey Point facility, which should allow FPL to store spent nuclear fuel at this facility through license expiration.



The NRC's regulations require FPL to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation.  FPL's current plans, under the operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively.  Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 at the end of its useful life in 2043.  See estimated decommissioning cost data in Management's Discussion - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil/Solar Dismantlement.



Solar Operations.FPL placed its first utility-scale solar generating facility into service in 2009 and placed two additional solar generating facilities in service in 2010.  FPL's three solar generating facilities consist of a 25 mw solar PV facility in DeSoto County, Florida, a 10 mw solar PV facility in Brevard County, Florida and a 75 mw solar thermal facility in Martin County, Florida.



Energy Marketing and Trading.FPL's Energy Marketing & Trading division (EMT) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity.  EMT procures natural gas and oil for FPL's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity.  EMT also uses derivative instruments, such as swaps, options and forwards, to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity.  Substantially all of the results of EMT's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses.  See Retail Ratemaking above, Management's Discussion - Results of Operations - FPL and Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity 
and Note 3.



Capital Expenditures.Capital expenditures at FPL include, among other things, the cost for construction or acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet customer demand, as well as capital improvements to and maintenance of existing facilities and the procurement of nuclear fuel.



FPL's actual capital expenditures for 2008 through 2010 and estimated planned capital expenditures for 2011 through 2015 as of December 31, 2010 were as follows:



ActualPlanned20082009201020112012201320142015Total(millions)Generation:(a)New(b)(c)$880$1,203$1,148$1,520$1,870$500$105$-$3,995Existing6016515886555706106654902,990Transmission and distribution7446336067208708207608404,010Nuclear fuel130178982601702552052201,110General and other9410210112014595120105585Total$2,449$2,767$2,541$3,275$3,625$2,280$1,855$1,655$12,690

¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾

(a)Includes AFUDC of approximately $49 million, $76 million, $79 million, $29 million and $3 million in 2011 to 2015, respectively.(b)Includes land, generating structures, transmission interconnection and integration and licensing.(c)Includes projects that have received FPSC approval.  Includes pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax AFUDC rate) on construction costs recoverable through the capacity clause of approximately $98 million, $75 million and $24 million in 2011 to 2013, respectively.  Excludes capital expenditures for the construction costs for the two additional nuclear units at FPL's Turkey Point site beyond what is required to receive an NRC license for each unit.



These estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary significantly from these estimates.  See Management's Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Contractual Obligations and Estimated Planned Capital Expenditures and Note 14 - Commitments.



Electric and Magnetic Fields.Electric and magnetic fields (EMF) are present around electrical facilities, including, but not limited to, appliances, power lines and building wiring.  Since the 1970s, there has been public, scientific and regulatory attention given to the question of whether EMF causes or contributes to adverse health effects.  U.S. and international scientific organizations have evaluated the EMF research.  Their reviews have generally concluded that while some epidemiology studies report an association with childhood leukemia, controlled laboratory studies do not support that association and the scientific studies overall have not demonstrated that EMF cause or contribute to any type of cancer or other d
isease.






The FDEP established EMF standards for electricity facilities in 1989 and FPL facilities comply with these standards.  Future changes in the FDEP regulations could require additional capital expenditures by FPL for such things as increasing the width of right of ways or relocating or reconfiguring transmission facilities.  It is not presently known whether any such expenditures will be required.  Currently, there are no such changes proposed to the FDEP regulations.



Employees.FPL had approximately 10,000 employees at December 31, 2010.  Approximately 32% of the employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) under a collective bargaining agreement with FPL that expires October 31, 2011.



NEXTERA ENERGY RESOURCES OPERATIONS



General.NextEra Energy Resources is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the United States, with 18,866 mw of generating assets across 26 states as of December 31, 2010.  The company also owns and operates wind projects in the Canadian provinces of Nova Scotia, Quebec and Alberta.  NextEra Energy Resources is the largest owner of wind and solar energy projects in the United States and the fourth largest owner of wind projects in Canada.



Of NextEra Energy Resources’ net generating capability at December 31, 2010, more than 11,300 mw were contracted and approximately 5,800 mw operate on a merchant basis.  Its wind portfolio has expanded from 1,745 mw in 2002 to 8,298 mw in 2010.  As of December 31, 2010, NextEra Energy Resources is the largest generator of solar energy in the United States, principally through a 310 mw facility in California’s Mojave Desert, of which 148 mw is owned by NextEra Energy Resources.  NextEra Energy Resources is pursuing additional commercial-scale solar projects in the United States, Canada and Spain.



A wholly-owned subsidiary of Capital Holdings, NextEra Energy Resources was formed in 1998 to aggregate NextEra Energy's existing competitive energy businesses.  It is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware.  Through its subsidiaries, NextEra Energy Resources currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric-generating facilities in wholesale energy markets.  NextEra Energy Resources also provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and owns a retail electricity provider based in Texas.  NextEra Energy Resources also engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities.



At December 31, 2010, NextEra Energy Resources managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its projects in which it has an ownership interest.  NextEra Energy Resources had ownership interests in operating independent power projects with a net generating capability totaling 18,866 mw (see Item 2 - Generating Facilities).  Generation capacity spans various geographic regions in North America and is produced using a variety of fuel sources, thereby reducing overall volatility related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio basis.  At December 31, 2010, the percentage of capacity by geographic region was:



Geographic RegionPercentage of Generation CapacityERCOT28%Northeast27%Midwest22%West15%Other South8%



At December 31, 2010, fuel sources for these projects were as follows:



Fuel SourcePercentage of Generation CapacityWind44%Natural Gas35%Nuclear14%Oil4%Hydro2%Solar and other1%








NextEra Energy Resources' actual capital expenditures and investments for 2008 through 2010 and estimated planned capital expenditures for 2011 through 2015 as of December 31, 2010 were as follows:



ActualPlanned20082009201020112012201320142015Total(millions)Wind(a)$2,255$2,625$1,950$505$30$10$5$-$550Solar(b)204018595588542075-2,335Nuclear(c)3354555105852752502502651,625Natural gas115120140140356540120400Other(d)801102858575506050320Total$2,805$3,350$3,070$2,270$1,300$795$430$435$5,230

¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾

(a)Consists of capital expenditures for planned new wind projects that have received applicable internal approvals and related transmission.  NextEra Energy Resources plans to add new wind generation of approximately 3,500 mw to 5,000 mw in 2010 to 2014, including 754 mw added in 2010 and approximately 700 mw to 1,000 mw in 2011, at a total cost of approximately $7 billion to $10 billion.(b)Consists of capital expenditures for planned new solar projects that have received applicable internal approvals and related transmission.  NextEra Energy Resources plans to add new solar generation of approximately 400 mw to 600 mw in 2010 through 2014, including 5 mw added in 2010, at a total cost of approximately $3 billion to $4 billion.(c)Includes nuclear fuel.(d)Consists of capital expenditures that have received applicable internal approvals.  NextEra Energy Resources plans to add natural gas infrastructure projects totaling approximately $400 million to $600 million in 2010 through 2014.



These estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital expenditures may vary significantly from these estimates.  See Management's Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Contractual Obligations and Estimated Planned Capital Expenditures and Note 14 - Commitments.



Portfolio by Category.NextEra Energy Resources' generating assets are categorized as follows:



Wind Assets- At December 31, 2010, NextEra Energy Resources had ownership interests in wind generating facilities with a combined capacity of approximately 8,298 mw (net ownership), of which approximately 79% have long-term contracts with utilities and power marketers, predominantly under fixed-price agreements with a weighted-average remaining contract life of 14 years.  The expected output of the remaining 21% is substantially hedged through 2012 and partially hedged through 2018 against changes in commodity prices.  NextEra Energy Resources operates substantially all of these wind facilities.  Approximately 91% of NextEra Energy Resources' net ownership in wind facilities has received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the P
ublic Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (Holding Company Act).  Essentially all of the remaining facilities have qualifying facility status under PURPA.  NextEra Energy Resources' wind facilities are located in 17 states and Canada.  NextEra Energy Resources expects to add approximately 700 mw to 1,000 mw of new wind generation in 2011.






Contracted Assets- At December 31, 2010, NextEra Energy Resources had 4,740 mw of non-wind contracted assets.  The contracted category includes all projects, other than wind, with contracts for substantially all of their output.  In 2010, two natural gas-fired plants, located in California and Pennsylvania, with a combined net generating capacity of approximately 1,250 mw moved from the merchant assets category to the contracted assets category when their respective long-term power sales agreements became effective.  Essentially all of the contracted assets were under power sales contracts with utilities, with a weighted-average remaining contract life of 14 years, and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging 
from December 2011 to 2033.  See Note 14 - Contracts.  Approximately 1,550 mw of this capacity is natural gas-fired generation.  The remaining 3,190 mw use a variety of fuels and technologies such as nuclear, oil, solar and coal.  As of December 31, 2010, approximately 95% of NextEra Energy Resources' contracted generating capacity is from power plants that have received exempt wholesale generator status under the Holding Company Act, while the remaining 5% has qualifying facility status under PURPA.  During the third quarter of 2011, a natural gas plant, located in the Northeast region, with a net generating capacity of approximately 145 mw will move to the merchant assets category when its long-term power sales agreement ends.



Merchant Assets- At December 31, 2010, NextEra Energy Resources' portfolio of merchant assets includes 5,828 mw of owned nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydro generation, of which 3,036 mw is located in the Northeast region and 2,792 mw in the ERCOT region.  The merchant assets include 1,017 mw of peak generating facilities.  Merchant assets are plants that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output and therefore require active marketing and hedging.  Approximately 71% (based on net mw capability) of the natural gas fueled merchant assets have natural gas supply agreements or a combination of natural gas supply and transportation agreements to provide for on-peak natural gas requirements.   See Note 14 - Con
tracts.  Derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) are used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases.  Managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty and operational risks.  See Energy Marketing and Trading below.



Nuclear Operations.NextEra Energy Resources wholly owns, or has undivided interests in, four nuclear units with a total net generating capability of 2,554 mw.  NextEra Energy Resources is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly owned units.  See estimated decommissioning cost data in Management's Discussion - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Nuclear Decommissioning and Fossil/Solar Dismantlement.  The nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications
.  The following table summarizes certain information related to NextEra Energy Resources' nuclear units:



FacilityLocationNetCapability(mw)PortfolioCategoryOperating License Expiration DatesNext ScheduledRefueling OutageSeabrookNew Hampshire1,100Merchant2030(a)April 2011Duane ArnoldIowa431Contracted(b)2034October 2012Point Beach Unit No. 1Wisconsin509Contracted(c)2030October 2011Point Beach Unit No. 2Wisconsin514Contracted(c)2033March 2011

¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾

(a)In 2010, NextEra Energy Resources filed an application with the NRC to renew Seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years.(b)NextEra Energy Resources sells substantially all of its share of the output of Duane Arnold under a long-term contract expiring in 2014.(c)NextEra Energy Resources sells 100% of the output of Point Beach Units Nos. 1 and 2 under a long-term contract through the current license terms.



NextEra Energy Resources is in the process of adding approximately 80 mw of capacity at each of its existing nuclear units at Point Beach during the scheduled refueling outages in the fall of 2011 for Unit No. 1 and the spring of 2011 for Unit No. 2.  The construction costs relating to the capacity additions yet to be incurred as of December 31, 2010 are included in estimated planned capital expenditures set forth in Capital Expenditures above.  See Note 14 - Commitments.








Energy Marketing and Trading.



Regulation.



Additionally, regional transmission organizations (RTOs) and independent system operators (ISOs) exist in a number of regions to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas.  Although each RTO and ISO may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers.  NextEra Energy Resources currently has operations that fall within the following RTOs and ISOs: AESO, CAISO, ERCOT, IESO, ISONE, MISO, NYISO, PJM and SPP.  Additionally, certain NextEra Energy Resources facilities are subject to the NERC’s mandatory reliability standards, and its nucle
ar facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC.  See FPL - Regulation for further discussion of NERC and NRC regulations.




NextEra Energy Resources continues to evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities.  In December 2010, ERCOT implemented a locational marginal price market design (a market-pricing approach used to manage the efficient use of the transmission system when congestion occurs on the electricity grid).  NextEra Energy Resources does not anticipate a material impact, if any, on its business resulting from implementation of the new market design.



Competition.Competitive wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary among and within geographic regions.  Revenues from electricity sales in these markets vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other ancillary services.  Some of the factors affecting success in these markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind, solar and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from regulated utilities and new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth, level of demand, environmental requirements and exposure to legal and regulatory changes.



Expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for NextEra Energy Resources.  Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in competitive markets.  NextEra Energy Resources seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its plants.



Environmental.NextEra Energy Resources is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by some of the emerging issues included in the Environmental Matters section.



During 2010, NextEra Energy Resources spent approximately $6 million on capital additions related to environmental matters, primarily to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations.  NextEra Energy Resources' capital expenditures related to environmental matters are estimated to be $5 million for 2011 through 2013, including approximately $3 million in 2011, and are included in estimated planned capital expenditures set forth in General above.



Employees.NextEra Energy Resources and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,690 employees at December 31, 2010.  Subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources have collective bargaining agreements with various unions which are summarized in the table below.



UnionLocationContractExpiration Date% of NextEra EnergyResources EmployeesCoveredIBEWWisconsinJune 2012 - September 2013(a)10%Utility Workers Union of AmericaNew HampshireDecember 20135IBEWIowaMay 20123Security Police and Fire Professionals of AmericaIowaJuly 20123IBEWMaineFebruary 20132IBEWCaliforniaMarch 2012-(b)Total23%

¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾

(a)Various employees at Point Beach are represented by the IBEW under four separate contracts with different expiration dates.(b)Employees constitute less than 1% of NextEra Energy Resources' employees.





OTHER NEXTERA ENERGY OPERATIONS



NextEra Energy's Corporate and Other segment represents other business activities, primarily FPL FiberNet and Lone Star, that are not separately reportable.  See Note 15.



FPL FiberNet.FPL FiberNet, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Capital Holdings, was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of NextEra Energy's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support FPL operations.  Accordingly, in 2000, FPL's existing fiber-optic lines were transferred to FPL FiberNet.  FPL FiberNet is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware.  FPL FiberNet leases wholesale fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to FPL and other customers, primarily telephone, wireless carriers, internet and other telecommunications companies.  FPL FiberNet's primary business focus is the Florida metropolitan (metro) market.  Metro networks cover Miami, Fort Lauderdale, We
st Palm Beach, Tampa, St. Petersburg, Orlando, Jacksonville, Naples, Ft. Myers and Tallahassee.  FPL FiberNet also has a long-haul network within Florida that provides bandwidth at wholesale rates.  At December 31, 2010, FPL FiberNet's network consisted of approximately 4,030 route miles, which interconnect major cities throughout Florida.



At December 31, 2010, NextEra Energy's investment in FPL FiberNet totaled approximately $180 million.  FPL FiberNet invested approximately $48 million during 2010 and plans to invest a total of approximately $180 million over the next five years primarily to meet customers' specific requirements under contract.






Lone Star.In 2008, the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) approved a $4.9 billion transmission grid improvement program that would add approximately 2,300 miles of 345 kv lines to deliver power from the Competitive Renewable Energy Zones (CREZ) in west Texas and the Texas panhandle to the Dallas/Fort Worth area and other population centers in Texas.  In 2009, Lone Star, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Capital Holdings, was allocated a portion of the transmission projects by the PUCT under the CREZ program.  Lone Star's CREZ project includes constructing and operating approximately 300 miles of 345 kv transmission lines in Texas.  In 2010, the PUCT approve
d Lone Star’s certificate of convenience and necessity, which both established Lone Star as a regulated transmission provider in Texas and granted approval to begin construction of Lone Star's CREZ project.  Lone Star is subject to the jurisdiction of the PUCT over a wide range of business activities, including, among others, rates charged to customers and certain aspects of siting, construction and operation of transmission systems.  The PUCT has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or impudently incurred.  In late 2010, Lone Star commenced right-of-way acquisition and early construction activities on its CREZ project and expects the transmission line to be placed in service in 2013.



At December 31, 2010, NextEra Energy's investment in Lone Star totaled approximately $20 million. Lone Star invested approximately $20 million during 2010 and plans to invest a total of approximately $780 million, including AFUDC, during the period 2011 through 2014 for construction of the transmission line.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



NextEra Energy and FPL are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state, and local environmental statutes, rules, and regulations relating to air and water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line siting, EMF from power lines and substations, oil discharge from transformers, lead paint, asbestos, noise and aesthetics, solid waste, natural resources, wildlife mortality and other environmental matters.  Compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design, construction and operation of new facilities.  Environmental laws and regulations are subject to change.  The following
 is a discussion of emerging federal and state initiatives and rules that could potentially affect NextEra Energy and its subsidiaries, including FPL and NextEra Energy Resources.



Climate Change- The U.S. Congress and certain states and regions continue to consider several legislative and regulatory proposals with respect to GHG emissions.  The economic and operational impact of climate change legislation on NextEra Energy and FPL depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the allowed emissions, whether emission allowances will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance.  If and until legislation is enacted and implementing regulations are adopted, the economic and operational impact (either positive or negative) on NextEra Energy and FPL cannot be determined, but could be ma
terial.





In 2009, the EPA issued a final rule for mandatory reporting of GHG emissions from facilities with emissions of 25,000 tpy or more, which includes all of FPL's and NextEra Energy Resources' fossil plants.  Affected facilities began collecting data in January 2010 and the first emissions report is due March 31, 2011 for the 2010 period.  In December 2010, the EPA issued a final rule governing electrical transmission and distribution equipment use which requires owners/operators of electric power transmission and distribution equipment that contains a threshold volume of sulfurhexaflouride and/or perfluorocarbons to monitor such emissions from electric power transmission and distribution systems.  Affected operators, including FPL, began collecting data in January 2011 and the first emissions report is
 due March 31, 2012 for the 2011 period.






Based on the most recent reference data available from government sources, NextEra Energy is among the lowest emitters, among electric generators, of GHG in the United States measured by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of carbon dioxide (CO2) per megawatt-hour (mwh) of generation.  However, the legislative and regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on FPL's and NextEra Energy Resources' generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to NextEra Energy and FPL could be material, depending on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted or specific implementation rules adopted.



In anticipation of the potential for further imposition of GHG emission limits on the electric industry in the future, NextEra Energy has taken a leadership role in the debate of climate change regulation and is involved in several climate change initiatives, including, but not limited to, the following:



·voluntary reporting of its GHG emissions and climate change strategy through the Carbon Disclosure Project (an investor-led initiative to identify climate change impacts on publicly-traded companies);



·participation in the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (an alliance made up of a diverse group of U.S.-based businesses and environmental organizations, which in January 2009 issued the Blueprint for Legislative Action, a set of legislative principles and recommendations to address global climate change and the reduction of GHG emissions);



·participation in the Clinton Global Initiative (an organization which seeks to foster shared commitment by individuals, businesses and governments to confront major world issues and achieve real change);



·participated in the EPA's Climate Leaders Program to reduce GHG intensity in the United States 18% by 2012, including reporting of emissions data annually.  During 2008, NextEra Energy met its commitment to achieve a 2008 target emissions rate reduction of 18% below a 2001 baseline emission rate measured in pounds per mwh.  This program was discontinued in 2009 by the EPA in response to the EPA's mandatory GHG reporting rule requirement;



·supporting Edison Electric Institute's climate change framework, which supports the concept of mandatory legislation capping carbon emissions economy wide and recommends, among other things, an 80% reduction of carbon emissions from current levels by 2050; and



·focusing on customer energy efficiency and conservation through programs such as Energy Smart Florida and EarthEra Renewable Energy Trust.



NextEra Energy Resources' plants operate in many states and regions that have developed or are in the process of developing legislation to reduce GHG emissions, including, but not limited to, the following:



·RPS, currently in place in approximately 30 states and the District of Columbia, require electricity providers in the state or district to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources.  These standards vary, but the majority include requirements to meet 10% to 25% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025.



·The Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) is a GHG reduction initiative whereby ten Northeast and Mid-Atlantic member states have enacted laws and adopted regulations that establish a cap-and-trade program for covered electric generating units in Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Vermont, Maryland, Massachusetts and Rhode Island.  RGGI members have agreed to stabilize power plant CO2emissions at 2009 levels through the end of 2014 and to further reduce the sector's emissions another 10% by the end of 2018.  The RGGI GHG reduction requirements affect 12 NextEra Energy Resources' fossil electric generating units, requiring those electric generating units to reduce emissions or to acquire CO2allowances for emis
sions of CO2.  Based on NextEra Energy Resources' clean generating portfolio in the RGGI marketplace, NextEra Energy Resources experienced a positive impact on earnings in 2009 and 2010 and expects that the requirements will have a positive overall impact on NextEra Energy Resources' earnings in 2011.  In the fourth quarter of 2010, the RGGI participating states began efforts to support the 2012 program review called for in the RGGI Memorandum of Understanding, which will be a comprehensive evaluation including program success, program impacts, additional reductions, electricity imports and associated emissions leakage, and offsets.



·The Western Climate Initiative (WCI) is a GHG reduction initiative with a goal of reducing CO2emissions by 15% below 2005 levels by 2020 for participants (Arizona, California, Oregon, Montana, New Mexico, Washington and Utah, as well as British Columbia, Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec, Canada).  Due to concerns about the economic impacts of GHG reductions programs, some states and provinces are reconsidering their commitment to the WCI.



·California Greenhouse Gas Regulation (CGGR) - California has enacted legislation to reduce GHG emissions in the state to 1990 emissions levels by 2020.  In December 2010, pursuant to the legislation, the California Air Resources Board approved a multi-sector GHG cap-and-trade program along with other GHG reduction measures which will begin in 2012.  Based on NextEra Energy Resources' clean generating portfolio in California, the impact of complying with the CGGR is not expected to have a material adverse impact on the financial statements of NextEra Energy.






Clean Air Act Mercury/Nickel Rule- Since 2005, the EPA has made several attempts to regulate nickel emissions from oil-fired generating units and mercury emissions from coal-fired generating units.  In 2008, the D.C. Circuit required the EPA to proceed with rulemaking under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act to promulgate a Utility Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) rule by November 2011 requiring reductions of hazardous air pollutants from coal-fired and oil-fired generating units' emissions.  Depending upon the final outcome of the EPA's rulemaking, it is possible that certain oil-fired and coal-fired units at FPL and NextEra Energy Resources may be required to add additional pollution control equipment.



Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR)/Clean Air Transport Rule (Transport Rule)- In 2005, the EPA published a final CAIR that requires sulfur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions reductions from electric generating units in 28 states, where the emissions from electric generating units are deemed to be transported to downwind states.  In 2008, the D.C. Circuit found significant flaws in the rule and remanded it back to the EPA for further rulemaking.  Because the D.C. Circuit chose not to vacate the rule, NextEra Energy and FPL were required to begin complying with the current version of the CAIR on January 1, 2009 and must continue to comply until the EPA rewrites the rule.
  In July 2010, the EPA released the proposed rewrite of the CAIR, known as the Transport Rule, to limit emissions of SO2and NOx from power plants in 31 eastern states and the District of Columbia and provides for a new allocation methodology for emission allowances and revised emissions reduction limits beginning in 2012.  NextEra Energy has submitted comments on the Transport Rule to the EPA and the final rule is expected to be published no earlier than the summer of 2011.  The impact of complying with the current version of the CAIR has not had, and, along with compliance with the Transport Rule as currently proposed, is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on the financial statements of NextEra Energy and FPL.



Clean Air Visibility Rule- In 2005, the EPA issued the Clean Air Visibility Rule to address regional haze in areas which include certain national park and wilderness areas through the installation of BART for electric generating units.  BART eligible units include those built between 1962 and 1977 that have the potential to emit more than 250 tons of visibility-impairing pollution per year.  The rule requires states to complete BART determinations and allows for a five-year period to implement pollution controls.  The final BART requirements of the Clean Air Visibility Rule affect FPL's Turkey Point Fossil Units Nos. 1 and 2 and one of NextEra Energy Resources' units located in Maine and are not expected to have a material adverse effect on th
e financial statements of NextEra Energy or FPL.



In 2007, the FDEP began the process to expand the number of units covered under the "Reasonable Further Progress" provision of the Clean Air Visibility Rule in an effort to reduce emissions of SO2in areas which include certain national park and wilderness areas.  In 2010, the FDEP rescinded the “Reasonable Further Progress” provision from Florida's plan to address regional haze and instead will rely on the EPA’s Transport Rule and proposed boiler MACT rules to demonstrate reasonable progress toward the visibility goals for national park and wilderness areas.



Clean Water Act Section 316(b)



Revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for Ozone- In 2008, the EPA issued a final rule establishing a new standard for ground-level ozone at 75 parts per billion (ppb).  After reconsideration, in January 2010, the EPA issued a proposed revision to the NAAQS for ground-level ozone requesting comments on revising the 2008 primary standard to a more restrictive primary standard of between 60 ppb and 70 ppb. It is anticipated that the EPA will issue a final rule no earlier than the summer of 2011 which will require states to (i) identify areas which will be designated as non-attainment for ground-level ozone within 120 days of the final rule, (ii) develop plans to meet the attainment standard by 2013 and (iii) begin meeting the attainment sta
ndard between 2014 and 2031 based on non-attainment severity. Generating facilities affected by the new ozone standard may be required to install additional pollution control equipment.  A review of recent ozone monitoring data indicates that some or all of FPL's generating facilities may be located in non-attainment areas, or areas projected to be in non-attainment depending on the primary standard adopted, and some of those generating facilities may be required to install additional pollution control equipment.






EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF NEXTERA ENERGY(a)



NameAgePositionEffective Date

Christopher A. Bennett52Executive Vice President & Chief Strategy, Policy & Business Process Improvement Officer of NextEra EnergyFebruary 15, 2008(b)

Paul I. Cutler51Treasurer of NextEra EnergyTreasurer of FPLAssistant Secretary of NextEra Energy and FPLFebruary 19, 2003February 18, 2003December 10, 1997

F. Mitchell Davidson48Chief Executive Officer of NextEra Energy ResourcesPresident of NextEra Energy ResourcesJuly 29, 2008December 15, 2006

Moray P. Dewhurst55Vice Chairman and Chief of Staff of NextEra EnergyAugust 17, 2009

Shaun J. Francis39Executive Vice President, Human Resources of NextEra EnergyExecutive Vice President, Human Resources of FPLAugust 16, 2010January 31, 2011

Chris N. Froggatt53Vice President of NextEra EnergyController and Chief Accounting Officer of NextEra EnergyOctober 19, 2009February 27, 2010

Lewis Hay, III55Chief Executive Officer of NextEra EnergyChairman of NextEra Energy and FPLJune 11, 2001January 1, 2002

Joseph T. Kelliher50Executive Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs of NextEra EnergyMay 18, 2009

Robert L. McGrath57Executive Vice President, Engineering, Construction & Corporate Services of NextEra Energy and FPLFebruary 21, 2005(b)

Manoochehr K. Nazar56Executive Vice President, Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of NextEra EnergyExecutive Vice President, Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of FPLJanuary 1, 2010January 15, 2010

Armando J. Olivera61Chief Executive Officer of FPLPresident of FPLJuly 17, 2008June 24, 2003

Armando Pimentel, Jr.48Chief Financial Officer of NextEra Energy and FPLExecutive Vice President, Finance of NextEra Energy and FPLMay 3, 2008February 15, 2008(b)

James L. Robo48President and Chief Operating Officer of NextEra EnergyDecember 15, 2006

Antonio Rodriguez68Executive Vice President, Power Generation Division of NextEra EnergyExecutive Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPLJanuary 1, 2007(b)July 1, 1999(b)

Charles E. Sieving38Executive Vice President & General Counsel of NextEra EnergyExecutive Vice President of FPLAssistant Secretary of NextEra EnergyDecember 1, 2008January 1, 2009May 21, 2010

¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾

(a)

(b)NextEra Energy title changed from vice president to executive vice president effective May 23, 2008.  Where applicable, FPL title changed from senior vice president to executive vice president effective July 17, 2008.






