Item 1. Business





OVERVIEW



NextEra Energy, Inc. (hereafter, NEE), with approximately 44,900 MW of generating capacity, is one of the largest electric power companies in North America with electric generating facilities located in 27 states in the U.S. and 4 provinces in Canada, and employing approximately 13,800 people as of

December 31, 2014

. NEE provides retail and wholesale electric services to over 5 million customers and owns generation, transmission and distribution facilities to support its services. It also purchases electric power for resale to its customers and provides risk management services related to power and gas consumption related to its own generation assets and for a limited number of wholesale customers in selected markets. NEE is the largest generator in North America of renewable energy from the wind and sun. NEE owns and operates approximately 17% of the installed base of U.S. wind power production capacity and owns and/or operates approximately 11% of the installed base of U.S. utility-scale solar power production capacity as of

December 31, 2014

. NEE also owns and operates one of the largest fleets of nuclear power stations in the U.S., with eight reactors at five sites located in four states, representing approximately 6% of U.S. nuclear power electric generating capacity as of

December 31, 2014

. NEE's business strategy has emphasized the development, acquisition and operation of renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired generation facilities in response to long-term federal policy trends supportive of zero and low air emissions sources of power. NEE's generation fleet has significantly lower rates of emissions of CO


, SO


and NOx than the average rates of the U.S. electric power industry with approximately 97% of its 2014 generation, measured by MWh produced, coming from renewable, nuclear and natural gas-fired facilities. Certain environmental attributes of the wholesale business' electric generating facilities, such as renewable energy credits (RECs), emissions reductions, offsets, allowances and the avoided emission of GHG pollutants, have been or likely will be sold or transferred to third parties, who are solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes.



NEE was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida and conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Florida Power & Light Company (hereafter, FPL) and NextEra Energy Resources, LLC (hereafter, NEER). NextEra Energy Capital Holdings, Inc. (hereafter, NEECH), another wholly-owned subsidiary of NEE, owns and provides funding for NEER's and NEE's operating subsidiaries, other than FPL and its subsidiaries. NEE's two principal businesses also constitute NEE's reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. During 2014, NEE formed NEP to acquire, manage and own contracted clean energy projects with stable, long-term cash flows. See II. NEER for further discussion of NEP. NEE's and NEER's generating capacity discussed in this combined Form 10-K includes approximately 199 MW associated with noncontrolling interests related to NEP as of December 31, 2014. See Item 2. Properties.









FPL is a rate-regulated electric utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in Florida. FPL is the largest electric utility in the state of Florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S. based on retail MWh sales. FPL is vertically integrated, with approximately 25,100 MW of generating capacity as ofDecember 31, 2014. FPL's investments in its infrastructure since 2001, such as modernizing less-efficient fossil generating plants to produce more energy with less fuel and fewer air emissions, increasing generating capacity at its existing nuclear units and upgrading its transmission and distribution systems to deliver service reliability that is the best of the Florida investor-owned utilities, have provided significant benefits to FPL's customers, all while providing residential and commercial bills that were among the lowest in Florida and below the national average based on a rate per kWh as of July 2014 (the latest date for which this data is available). With approximately 95% of its power generation coming from natural gas, nuclear and solar, FPL is also one of the cleanest electric utilities in the nation. Based on 2014 information, FPL's emissions rates for CO2, SO2and NOx were 38%, 95% and 73% lower, respectively, than the average rates of the U.S. electric power industry.











NEER, with approximately 19,800 MW of generating capacity atDecember 31, 2014, is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the U.S., with approximately 19,000 MW of generating capacity across 25 states, and with over 700 MW in 4 Canadian provinces. NEER produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources, including wind and solar. NEER also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities, participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production and pipeline infrastructure development and owns a retail electricity provider.



NEECH's other business activities are primarily conducted through NEET and FPL FiberNet. NEET conducts its operations principally through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Lone Star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in Texas, and NHT, a rate-regulated transmission owner in New Hampshire. FPL FiberNet delivers wholesale and enterprise telecommunications services in Florida, Texas and certain areas of the South Central U.S. In addition, certain subsidiaries of NEECH are pursuing approvals to move forward with three natural gas pipeline projects.



NEE seeks to create value in its two principal businesses by meeting its customers' needs more economically and more reliably than its competitors, as described in more detail in the following sections. NEE's strategy has resulted in profitable growth over sustained periods at both FPL and NEER. Management seeks to grow each business in a manner consistent with the varying opportunities open to it; however, management believes that the diversification and balance represented by FPL and NEER is a valuable characteristic of the enterprise and recognizes that each business contributes to NEE's credit profile in different ways. FPL and NEER, as well as other NEE subsidiaries, share common support functions with the objective of lowering costs and creating efficiencies for their businesses. During 2013, NEE and its subsidiaries commenced an enterprise-wide initiative focused mainly on improving productivity and reducing O&M expenses (cost savings initiative), and management expects to continue those efforts over the near term.



In December 2014, NEE and Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. (HEI) announced a proposed merger pursuant to which Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc., HEI's wholly-owned electric utility subsidiary, will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEE. The companies are working to complete the merger by the end of 2015. However, completion of the merger and the actual closing date depend upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including approval by HEI's shareholders and the receipt of required regulatory approvals. See Note 1 - Proposed Merger for further discussion.













NEE'S OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES



I. FPL



FPL was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925 and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEE. FPL is a rate-regulated electric utility and is the largest electric utility in the state of Florida and one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S. based on retail MWh sales. FPL, with 25,092 MW of generating capacity atDecember 31, 2014, supplies electric service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida, serving more than 9 million people through approximately 4.7million customer accounts. AtDecember 31, 2014, FPL's service territory and plant locations are as follows (see Item 2. Properties  - Generating Facilities):







FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS AND COMPETITION



FPL's service to its retail customers is provided primarily under franchise agreements negotiated with municipalities or counties. Alternatively, municipalities and counties may form their own utility companies to provide service to their residents. In a very few cases, an FPL franchise agreement provides the respective municipality the right to buy the electrical assets serving local residents at the end of the agreement. However, during the term of a franchise agreement, which is typically 30 years, the municipality or county agrees not to form its own utility, and FPL has the right to offer electric service to residents. FPL currently holds 177 franchise agreements with various municipalities and counties in Florida with varying expiration dates through 2044. One of these franchise agreements expires in 2015, three expire in 2016 and 173 expire during the period 2017 through 2044. These franchise agreements cover approximately 86% of FPL's retail customer base in Florida. Negotiations are ongoing to renew the franchise agreements that expire in 2015 and 2016. FPL considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business. FPL also provides service to 12 other municipalities and to22 unincorporated areas within its service area without franchise agreements pursuant to the general obligation to serve as a public utility. FPL relies upon Florida law for access to public rights of way.



Because any customer may elect to provide his/her own electric services, FPL effectively must compete for an individual customer's business. As a practical matter, few customers provide their own service at the present time since FPL's cost of service is substantially lower than the cost of self-generation for the vast majority of customers. Changing technology, economic conditions and other factors could alter the favorable relative cost position that FPL currently enjoys; however, FPL seeks as a matter of strategy to ensure that it delivers superior value, in the form of high reliability, low bills and excellent customer service.



In addition to self-generation by residential, commercial and industrial customers, FPL also faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources. In each of 2014, 2013 and 2012, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented approximately 5%, 3%and 3%, respectively, of FPL's total operating revenues.













The FPSC promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam and solar generating capacity of 75 MW or greater by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, including FPL, to issue an RFP except when the FPSC determines that an exception from the RFP process is in the public interest. The RFP process allows independent power producers and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity. If a bidder has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric utility would seek to negotiate a purchased power agreement with the selected bidder and request that the FPSC approve the terms of the purchased power agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the construction of the bidder's generating capacity. In January 2015, FPL announced plans to issue an RFP during the first quarter of 2015 for a new natural gas-fired combined-cycle unit in Okeechobee County, Florida.



New nuclear power plants are exempt from the RFP requirement. See FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations below.



CUSTOMERS AND REVENUE



FPL's primary source of operating revenues is from its retail customer base; it also serves a limited number of wholesale customers within Florida. FPL revenues from wholesale sales increased in 2014 primarily due to an increase in contracted load served under existing and new wholesale contracts. Beginning in 2013, operating revenues include gains associated with an incentive mechanism allowed under the 2012 rate agreement (see FPL Regulation - FPL Rate Regulation - Base Rates - Rates Effective January 2013 - December 2016); such gains are included in other in the chart below. The percentage of FPL's operating revenues and customer accountsby customer class were as follows:







For both retail and wholesale customers, the prices (or rates) that FPL may charge are approved by regulatory bodies, by the FPSC in the case of retail customers, and by the FERC in the case of wholesale customers. In general, under U.S. and Florida law, regulated rates are intended to cover the cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. Since the regulatory bodies have authority to determine the relevant cost of providing service and the appropriate rate of return on capital employed, there can be no guarantee that FPL will be able to earn any particular rate of return or recover all of its costs through regulated rates. See FPL Regulation below.













FPL seeks to maintain attractive rates for its customers. Since rates are largely cost-based, maintaining low rates requires a strategy focused on developing and maintaining a low cost position. The ideas generated from the cost savings initiative discussed above are expected to keep FPL's O&M expenses recovered through base rates flat through 2016 as compared to 2012. A common benchmark used in the electric power industry for comparing rates across companies is the price of 1,000 kWh of consumption per month for a residential customer. FPL's 2014 average bill for 1,000 kWh of monthly residential usage was the lowest among reporting electric utilities within Florida as indicated below:







POWER DELIVERY



FPL provides service to its customers through an integrated transmission and distribution system that links its generation facilities to its customers. FPL also maintains interconnection facilities with neighboring utilities and non-utility generators inside its service territory, enabling it to buy and sell wholesale electricity and to enhance the reliability of its own network and support the reliability of neighboring networks. FPL's transmission system carries high voltage electricity from its generating facilities to substations where the electricity is stepped down to lower voltage levels and is sent through the distribution system to its customers.



A key element of FPL's strategy is to provide highly reliable service to its customers. The transmission and distribution system is susceptible to interruptions or outages from a wide variety of sources including weather, animal and vegetation interference, traffic accidents, equipment failure and many others, and FPL seeks to reduce or eliminate outages where economically practical and to restore service rapidly when outages occur. A common industry benchmark for transmission and distribution system reliability is the system average interruption duration index (SAIDI), which represents the number of minutes the average customer is without power during a time period. For the five years 2009 - 2013, FPL's average annual SAIDI was the best of the investor-owned utilities in Florida. FPL is accelerating its existing storm hardening and reliability program, to continue strengthening its infrastructure against tropical storms and hurricanes. Also, as part of its commitment to building a smarter, more reliable and efficient electric infrastructure, FPL has installed 4.8 million smart meters and 11,500 intelligent devices throughout the electric grid.



FPL SYSTEM CAPABILITY AND LOAD



AtDecember 31, 2014, FPL's resources for serving load consisted of 27,055 MW, of which 25,092 MW were from FPL-owned facilities (see Item 2. Properties - Generating Facilities) and 1,963 MW were available through purchased power agreements (see FPL Sources of Generation - Purchased Power below). FPL customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer months, largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in FPL's service territory. Occasionally, unusually cold temperatures during the winter months result in significant increases in electricity usage for short periods of time. The highest peak load FPL has served to date was 24,346 MW, which occurred on January 11, 2010. FPL had adequate resources available at the time of this peak to meet customer demand.



FPL's projected reserve margin for the summer of 2015 is approximately 27%. This reserve margin is expected to be achieved through the combination of available output from FPL's active generating units, purchased power agreements and the capability to reduce peak demand through the implementation of demand side management programs, including load management which was estimated atDecember 31, 2014to be capable of reducing demand by approximately 1,800 MW, and energy efficiency and conservation programs. See FPL Sources of Generation - Fossil Operations and - Nuclear Operations below regarding generation projects currently under construction.













FPL SOURCES OF GENERATION



FPL relies upon a mix of fuel sources for its generating facilities, along with purchased power, in order to maintain the flexibility to achieve a more economical fuel mix by responding to market and industry developments. See descriptions of fossil, nuclear and solar operations below and a listing of FPL's generating facilities in Item 2. Properties - Generating Facilities.



FPL's 2014 fuel mix based on MWh produced, including purchased power, was as follows:





Oil and Solar are collectively less than 1%





Fossil Operations (Natural Gas, Coal and Oil)



AtDecember 31, 2014, FPL owned and operated 70 units that used fossil fuels, primarily natural gas, and had a joint ownership interest in 3 coal units. Combined, the fossil fleet provided 21,604 MW of generating capacity for FPL. These fossil units are out of service from time to time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity demand. A common industry benchmark for fossil unit reliability is the equivalent forced outage rate (EFOR), which represents a generating unit's inability to provide electricity when required to operate. For the five years 2009 - 2013, FPL's average annual EFOR was in the top decile among its electric utility fossil fleet peers in the U.S.



FPL's natural gas plants require natural gas transportation, supply and storage. FPL has firm transportation contracts in place for existing pipeline capacity with fivedifferent transportation suppliers. These agreements provide for an aggregate maximum delivery quantity of 2,069,000MMBtu/day with expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2036that together areexpected to satisfy substantially all of the currently anticipated needs for natural gas transportation through 2016. To the extent desirable, FPL also purchases interruptible natural gas transportation service from these natural gas transportation suppliers based on pipeline availability. FPL has several short- and medium-term natural gas supply contracts to provide a portion of FPL's anticipated needs for natural gas. The remainder of FPL's natural gas requirements is purchased in the spot market. FPL has an agreement for the storage of natural gas that expires in 2017. See Note 13 - Contracts.



In 2013, the FPSC approved FPL's 25-year natural gas transportation agreements with each of Sabal Trail and Florida Southeast Connection for a quantity of 400,000 MMBtu/day beginning on May 1, 2017 and increasing to 600,000 MMBtu/day on May 1, 2020. FPL's firm commitments under the agreements are contingent upon the occurrence of certain events, including FERC approval and completion of construction of the pipeline system to be built by Sabal Trail and Florida Southeast Connection. A FERC decision is expected in 2015. See Other NEE Operating Subsidiaries - Natural Gas Pipeline Systems - Florida Natural Gas Pipeline System below and Note 13 - Contracts. These new agreements, when combined with FPL's existing agreements, are expected to satisfy substantially all of FPL's natural gas transportation needs through at least 2020.



In December 2014, the FPSC approved FPL’s petitionto invest in long-term natural gas supplies in the Woodford Shale region in southeastern Oklahoma and for the recovery of costs associated with the investment through the fuel clause. A wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL will partner with a third party to develop up to 38 natural gas production wells in the Woodford Shale region and receive its ownership share of the natural gas produced from these wells. FPL’s projected investment in these natural gas production











wells as of December 31, 2014 is included in estimated capital expenditures set forth in Note 13 - Commitments. In 2015, the State of Florida Office of Public Counsel (OPC) and Florida Industrial Power Users Group each has filed notices of appeal to the Florida Supreme Court that relate to challenging the Woodford Shale natural gas reserves project, which appeals are pending. As part of FPL’s petition to invest in natural gas supplies in the Woodford Shale region, it also requested the FPSC approve a set of guidelines proposed by FPL under which FPL could participate in additional natural gas production projects and recover its costs through the fuel clause without prior FPSC approval. In 2015, the FPSC filed a motion with the Florida Supreme Court requesting that the Court issue an order confirming the FPSC has jurisdiction to consider and issue a decision on FPL’s proposed guidelines while the appeals regarding the Woodford Shale natural gas reserves project are pending. Also in 2015, the OPC filed a petition requesting the Florida Supreme Court prohibit the FPSC from ruling on the proposed guidelines while appeals concerning the Woodford Shale natural gas reserves project are pending.



St. Johns River Power Park (SJRPP) Units Nos.1 and 2, coal-fired units in which FPL has a joint ownership interest, have firm coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of their fuel and transportation needs through 2017. Scherer Unit No.4, the other coal-fired unit in which FPL has a joint ownership interest, has firm coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of its fuel needs and all of its transportation needs through 2016. Any of the remaining fuel requirements for these coal-fired units will be obtained in the spot market. See Note13- Contracts. With respect to its oil plants, FPL obtains its fuel requirements in the spot market.



Modernization Projects.In April 2013 and in April 2014, FPL placed in service, at each of its Cape Canaveral and Riviera Beach power plants, a natural gas-fired combined-cycle modernized unit with generating capacity of 1,210 MW and 1,212 MW, respectively. FPL is in the process of modernizing its Port Everglades power plant to a high-efficiency natural gas-fired unit that is expected to provide approximately 1,240 MW of capacity and be placed in service by mid-2016.



Nuclear Operations



AtDecember 31, 2014, FPL owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 3,453 MW.



FacilityMWOperating LicenseExpiration DatesSt. Lucie Unit No. 19812036St. Lucie Unit No. 28402043Turkey Point Unit No. 38112032Turkey Point Unit No. 48212033



FPL has several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from late February 2015 through 2030. See Note 13 - Commitments. NRC regulations require FPL to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation. FPL's current plans, under the applicable operating licenses, provide for prompt dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033, respectively. Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 commencing in 2043.



Projects to Add Additional Capacity.FPL's need petition for two additional nuclear units at its Turkey Point site was approved by the FPSC in 2008 and FPL is moving forward with activities necessary to obtain all permits, licenses and approvals necessary for construction and operation of the units. The two units are expected to add a total of approximately 2,200 MW of capacity. The timing of commercial operation will be subject to various regulatory approvals from the FPSC and other agencies which will be required throughout the licensing and development processes and the nuclear units are expected to be placed in-service in 2027 and 2028. The NRC has indicated that its consideration of the licenses for the two units will be complete by early 2017.



Nuclear Unit Scheduled Refueling Outages.FPL's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. The following table summarizes each unit's next scheduled refueling outage:



FacilityNext ScheduledRefueling OutageSt. Lucie Unit No. 1March 2015St. Lucie Unit No. 2September 2015Turkey Point Unit No. 3October 2015Turkey Point Unit No. 4March 2016













Spent Nuclear Fuel.FPL's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration. In August 2014, the NRC issued its Continued Storage of Spent Nuclear Fuel Rule which supports the NRC's determination that licensees can safely store spent nuclear fuel at nuclear power plants indefinitely. Petitions have been filed with the NRC and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C. Circuit) challenging the rule and requesting that the NRC suspend final reactor licensing decisions in all open NRC licensing proceedings (including the licensing proceeding for two additional nuclear units at FPL's Turkey Point site) alleging that the rule is deficient. The petitions filed with the NRC have been fully briefed and a decision by the NRC is pending. The NRC requested that the D.C. Circuit defer briefing on the appellate case until the NRC decides the petitions pending before it.



Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended (Nuclear Waste Policy Act)- Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE is responsible for the development of a repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. As required by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, FPL is a party to contracts with the DOE to provide for disposal of spent nuclear fuel from its nuclear units.



The DOE was required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power plants which fee was subsequently set to zero effective May 2014. The DOE did not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act. In 2009, FPL and certain of FPL's nuclear plant joint owners entered into a settlement agreement (spent fuel settlement agreement) with the U.S. government agreeing to dismiss with prejudice lawsuits filed against the U.S. government seeking damages caused by the DOE's failure to dispose of spent nuclear fuel from FPL's nuclear plants. The spent fuel settlement agreement permits FPL to make annual filings to recover certain spent fuel storage costs incurred by FPL which are reimbursable by the U.S. government on an annual basis.



Yucca Mountain- In 2010, the DOE filed a motion with the NRC to withdraw its license application for a nuclear waste repository at Yucca Mountain, which request was denied. In 2011, the NRC issued an order suspending the Yucca Mountain licensing proceeding, which order was challenged, and in 2013, the D.C. Circuit issued an order requiring the NRC to proceed with the legally mandated licensing process for a nuclear waste repository at Yucca Mountain. As a result, the NRC has recently completed the technical review of the application and is planning to supplement the DOE's environmental impact statement. Certain requirements must be met before the NRC can issue a license for the repository.



Nuclear Regulatory Developments.Based on the NRC's comprehensive review of processes and regulations relating to nuclear facilities in the U.S. following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the NRC established, among other things, actions to be completed at each nuclear site and issued various orders and requests for information with a prescribed timeline for implementation and completion by the end of 2016. The NRC continues to monitor industry implementation of the orders for, among others, enhanced venting capabilities for boiling water reactors for which implementation is expected to go beyond 2016 (FPL's nuclear units do not use boiling water reactors; see NEER - Generation and Other Operations - Nuclear Facilities - Nuclear Regulatory Developments). FPL is currently working with the NRC on the approval and implementation of actions required to meet new NRC requirements. A portion of the costs for these actions is being recovered through base rates based on estimated costs for 2013, with any incremental costs being recovered through the capacity clause, all of which are included in estimated capital expenditures. See FPL Regulation - FPL Rate Regulation - Cost Recovery Clauses below and Note 13 - Commitments.



The lessons learned from the events in Japan and the results of the NRC's actions have and will continue to, among other things, result in new licensing and safety-related requirements for U.S. nuclear facilities. Any new requirements could, among other things, impact future licensing and operations of U.S. nuclear facilities, including FPL's existing nuclear facilities and NRC approval of two additional nuclear units at FPL's Turkey Point site, and could, among other things, result in increased cost and capital expenditures associated with the operation and maintenance of FPL's nuclear units.



Solar Operations



Solar generation can be provided primarily through two conventions: utility-owned and customer-owned or leased. In utility-owned solar generation, the energy generated goes directly to the transmission grid, whereas customer-owned or leased solar generation generally goes directly to the location it is serving with any excess over that local need being fed back to the transmission grid. There are two principal solar technologies used for utility-scale projects: PV and thermal. AtDecember 31, 2014, FPL owned and operated two solar PV generating facilities, which provided a total of 35 MW of generation capacity, and a 75 MW solar thermal hybrid facility. FPL supports the advancement of solar generation primarily for its fuel diversity and emissions reduction benefits, and plans to continue to support, study and pursue solar generation that is beneficial for FPL's customers. FPL plans to build three solar PV projects that are expected to provide approximately 74 MW each and be placed into service by the end of 2016.



Purchased Power



In addition to owning generation facilities, FPL also purchases power and capacity from non-utility generators and other utilities to meet customer demand through long-term purchased power agreements. As ofDecember 31, 2014, FPL's long-term purchased power agreements provided for the purchase of approximately 1,963 MW of power with expiration dates ranging from December











2015 through 2032.See Note 13 - Contracts. On occasion, FPL may procure short-term power and capacity for both economic and reliability purposes.



FPL ENERGY MARKETING AND TRADING



FPL's Energy Marketing & Trading division (EMT) buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas, oil and electricity. EMT procures natural gas and oil for FPL's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and electricity. EMT also uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options and forwards) to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. Substantially all of the results of EMT's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or capacity clauses. See FPL Regulation - FPL Rate Regulation below, Management's Discussion - Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity and Note 3.



FPL REGULATION



FPL's operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other organizations, including, but not limited to, the following:



•the FPSC, which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities, among other things;

•the FERC, which oversees the acquisition and disposition of generation, transmission and other facilities, transmission of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce, proposals to build interstate natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy, among other things;

•the NERC, which, through its regional entities, establishes and enforces mandatory reliability standards, subject to approval by the FERC, to ensure the reliability of the U.S. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts;

•the NRC, which has jurisdiction over the operation of nuclear power plants through the issuance of operating licenses, rules, regulations and orders; and

•the EPA, which has the responsibility to maintain and enforce national standards under a variety of environmental laws. The EPA also works with industries and all levels of government, including federal and state governments, in a wide variety of voluntary pollution prevention programs and energy conservation efforts.



FPL Rate Regulation



The FPSC sets rates at a level that is intended to allow FPL the opportunity to collect from retail customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to FPL's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery clauses.



Base Rates.In general, the basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system. These basic costs include O&M expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on FPL's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service (rate base). At the time base rates are determined, the allowed rate of return on rate base approximates the FPSC's determination of FPL's estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt and an allowed ROE. The FPSC monitors FPL's actual regulatory ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with the FPSC. The FPSC does not provide assurance that any regulatory ROE will be achieved. Base rates are determined in rate proceedings or through negotiated settlements of those proceedings. Proceedings can occur at the initiative of FPL or upon action by the FPSC. Base rates remain in effect until new base rates are approved by the FPSC.



Rates Effective January 2013 - December 2016- In January 2013, the FPSC issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement between FPL and several intervenors in FPL's base rate proceeding (2012 rate agreement). Key elements of the 2012 rate agreement, which is effective from January 2013 through December 2016, include, among other things, the following:



•New retail base rates and charges were established in January 2013 resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of $350 million on an annualized basis.

•FPL's allowed regulatory ROE is 10.50%, with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points. If FPL's earned regulatory ROE falls below 9.50%, FPL may seek retail base rate relief. If the earned regulatory ROE rises above 11.50%, any party to the 2012 rate agreement other than FPL may seek a review of FPL's retail base rates.

•Retail base rates will be increased by the annualized base revenue requirements for FPL's three modernization projects (Cape Canaveral, Riviera Beach and Port Everglades) as each of the modernized power plants becomes operational. (Cape Canaveral and Riviera Beach became operational in April 2013 and April 2014, respectively, and Port Everglades is expected to be operational by mid-2016.)

•Cost recovery of WCEC Unit No. 3, which was placed in service in May 2011, will continue to occur through the capacity clause; however, such recovery will not be limited to the projected annual fuel cost savings as was the case in the previous rate agreement discussed below.











•Subject to certain conditions, FPL may amortize, over the term of the 2012 rate agreement, a depreciation reserve surplus remaining at the end of 2012 under the 2010 rate agreement discussed below (approximately $224 million) and may amortize a portion of FPL's fossil dismantlement reserve up to a maximum of $176 million (collectively, the reserve), provided that in any year of the 2012 rate agreement, FPL must amortize at least enough reserve to maintain a 9.50% earned regulatory ROE but may not amortize any reserve that would result in an earned regulatory ROE in excess of 11.50%.

•Future storm restoration costs would be recoverable on an interim basis beginning 60 days from the filing of a cost recovery petition, but capped at an amount that could produce a surcharge of no more than $4 for every 1,000 kWh of usage on residential bills during the first 12 months of cost recovery. Any additional costs would be eligible for recovery in subsequent years. If storm restoration costs exceed $800 million in any given calendar year, FPL may request an increase to the $4 surcharge to recover the amount above $800 million.

•An incentive mechanism whereby customers will receive 100% of certain gains, including, but not limited to, gains from the purchase and sale of electricity and natural gas (including transportation and storage), up to a specified threshold; gains exceeding that specified threshold will be shared by FPL and its customers.



Rates Effective March 2010 - December 2012- Effective March 1, 2010, pursuant to an FPSC final order (2010 FPSC rate order), new retail base rates for FPL were established, resulting in an increase in retail base revenues of approximately $75 million on an annualized basis. The 2010 FPSC rate order, among other things, also established a regulatory ROE of 10.0% with a range of plus or minus 100 basis points. In February 2011, the FPSC issued a final order approving a stipulation and settlement agreement between FPL and principal parties in FPL's 2009 rate case (2010 rate agreement). The 2010 rate agreement, which was effective through December 31, 2012, provided for, among other things, a reduction in depreciation expense (surplus depreciation credit) in any calendar year up to a cap in 2010 of $267 million, a cap in subsequent years of $267 million plus the amount of any unused portion from prior years, and a total cap of $776 million over the course of the 2010 rate agreement, provided that in any year of the 2010 rate agreement FPL was required to use enough surplus depreciation credit to maintain an earned regulatory ROE within the range of 9.0% - 11.0%. The 2010 rate agreement also permitted incremental cost recovery through FPL's capacity clause for WCEC Unit No. 3 up to the amount of the projected annual fuel savings for customers. See Cost Recovery Clauses below for additional information regarding the capacity clause.



Cost Recovery Clauses.Cost recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange costs, certain construction-related costs and conservation and certain environmental-related costs. Cost recovery clause costs are recovered through levelized monthly charges per kWh or kW, depending on the customer's rate class. These cost recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus true-up adjustments to reflect the estimated over or under recovery of costs for the current and prior periods. An adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved during the course of a year to reflect revised estimates.



Fuel costs and energy charges under the purchased power agreements are recovered from customers through the fuel clause, the most significant of the cost recovery clauses in terms of operating revenues. FPL uses a risk management fuel procurement program which has been approved by the FPSC. The FPSC reviews the program activities and results for prudence annually as part of its review of fuel costs. The program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPL's fuel requirements. See FPL Energy Marketing and Trading above, Note 1 - Regulation and Note 3. Costs associated with FPL’s investment in long-term natural gas supplies in the Woodford Shale region that have been approved by the FPSC will also be recovered through the fuel clause. See FPL Sources of Generation - Fossil Operations above.



Capacity payments to non-utility generators and other utilities are recovered from customers through the capacity clause. In accordance with the FPSC's nuclear cost recovery rule, FPL also recovers pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax AFUDC rate) on construction costs for new nuclear capacity through the capacity clause. As property related to the new nuclear capacity goes into service, construction costs and a return on investment are recovered through base rate increases effective beginning the following January. See FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations above. In January 2014, FPL began recovering, through the capacity clause, the incremental costs incurred to comply with new NRC requirements established following the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan. See FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations - Nuclear Regulatory Developments above. In accordance with the 2012 and 2010 rate agreements, cost recovery for WCEC Unit No. 3 is permitted during the term of the agreements through FPL's capacity clause and is reported as retail base revenues.



Costs associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from customers through the energy conservation cost recovery clause. Certain costs of complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 and costs associated with FPL's three solar facilities are recovered through the environmental cost recovery clause (environmental clause).



The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred. These costs may include, among others, fuel and O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities.



FERC



The Federal Power Act gives the FERC exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission











of electricity and natural gas in interstate commerce. Pursuant to the Federal Power Act, electric utilities must maintain tariffs and rate schedules on file with the FERC which govern the rates, terms and conditions for the provision of FERC-jurisdictional wholesale power and transmission services. The Federal Power Act also gives the FERC authority to certify and oversee a national electric reliability organization with authority to establish and independently enforce mandatory reliability standards applicable to all users, owners and operators of the bulk-power system. See NERC below. Electric utilities are subject to accounting, record-keeping and reporting requirements administered by the FERC. The FERC also places certain limitations on transactions between electric utilities and their affiliates.



NERC



The NERC has been certified by the FERC as the national electric reliability organization. The NERC's mandate is to ensure the reliability and security of the North American bulk-power system through the establishment and enforcement of reliability standards approved by FERC. The NERC's regional entities also enforce reliability standards approved by the FERC. FPL is subject to these reliability standards and incurs costs to ensure compliance with continually heightened requirements, and can incur significant penalties for failing to comply with them.



FPL Environmental Regulation



FPL is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by some of the emerging issues described in the NEE Environmental Matters section below. FPL expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations.



FPL EMPLOYEES



FPL had approximately 8,700 employees atDecember 31, 2014. Approximately 33% of the employees are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) under a collective bargaining agreement with FPL that expires October 31, 2017.





II. NEER



NEER was formed in 1998 to aggregate NEE's competitive energy businesses. It is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEECH. Through its subsidiaries, NEER currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generating facilities in wholesale energy markets primarily in the U.S., as well as in Canada and Spain. See Note 14. NEER is one of the largest wholesale generators of electric power in the U.S., with approximately 19,777 MW of generating capacity across 25 states, 4 Canadian provinces and 1 Spanish province as ofDecember 31, 2014. NEER produces the majority of its electricity from clean and renewable sources as described more fully below. NEER is the largest owner of wind and utility-scale solar energy projects in North America.



NEER engages in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, including entering into financial and physical contracts, to hedge the production from its generating assets that is not sold under long-term power supply agreements. These activities primarily include power and gas commodities and their related products, as well as providing full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and offering customized power and gas and related risk management services to wholesale customers. NEER also participates in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production through non-operating ownership interests and in pipeline infrastructure development, hereafter referred to as the gas infrastructure business, and owns a retail electricity provider. NEER also hedges the expected output from its gas infrastructure production assets to protect against price movements.













MARKETS AND COMPETITION



Electricity markets in the U.S. and Canada are regional and diverse in character. All are extensively regulated, and competition in these markets is shaped and constrained by regulation. The nature of the products offered varies based on the specifics of regulation in each region. Generally, in addition to the natural constraints on pricing freedom presented by competition, NEER may also face specific constraints in the form of price caps, or maximum allowed prices, for certain products. NEER's ability to sell the output of its generation facilities may also be constrained by available transmission capacity, which can vary from time to time and can have a significant impact on pricing.



The degree and nature of competition that NEER faces is different in wholesale markets and in retail markets. Approximately 90% of NEER's revenue is derived from wholesale markets.



Wholesale power generation is a capital-intensive, commodity-driven business with numerous industry participants. NEER primarily competes on the basis of price, but believes the green attributes of NEER's generating assets, its creditworthiness and its ability to offer and manage reliable customized risk solutions to wholesale customers are competitive advantages. Wholesale power generation is a regional business that is highly fragmented relative to many other commodity industries and diverse in terms of industry structure. As such, there is a wide variation in terms of the capabilities, resources, nature and identity of the companies NEER competes with depending on the market. In wholesale markets, customers' needs are met through a variety of means, including long-term bilateral contracts, standardized bilateral products such as full requirements service and customized supply and risk management services.



In general, U.S. electricity markets encompass three classes of services: energy, capacity and ancillary services. Energy services relate to the physical delivery of power; capacity services relate to the availability of MW capacity of a power generation asset; and ancillary services are other services related to power generation assets, such as load regulation and spinning and non-spinning reserves. The exact nature of these classes of services is defined in part by regional tariffs. Not all regions have a capacity services class, and the specific definitions of ancillary services vary from region to region.



RTOs and ISOs exist in a number of regions within which NEER operates to coordinate generation and transmission across wide geographic areas and to run markets. NEER also has operations that fall within the Western Electricity Coordinating Council reliability region that are not under the jurisdiction of an established RTO or ISO. Although each RTO and ISO may have differing objectives and structures, some benefits of these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability and facilitating competition among wholesale electricity providers. NEER has operations that fall within the following RTOs and ISOs:



•Alberta Electric System Operator

•California Independent System Operator

•ERCOT

•Independent Electricity System Operator (in Ontario)

•ISO New England (ISO-NE)

•Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc.

•New York Independent System Operator

•PJM

•Southwest Power Pool



NEER competes in different regions to different degrees, but in general it seeks to enter into long-term bilateral contracts for the full output of its generating facilities, and, as ofDecember 31, 2014, approximately 65% of NEER's generating capacity is fully committed under long-term contracts. Where long-term contracts are not in effect, NEER sells the output of its facilities into daily spot markets. In such cases, NEER will frequently enter into shorter term bilateral contracts, typically of less than three years duration, to hedge the price risk associated with selling into a daily spot market. Such bilateral contracts, which may be hedges either for physical delivery or for financial (pricing) offset, may only protect a portion of the revenue that NEER expects to derive from the associated generation facility and may not qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP. Contracts that serve the economic purpose of hedging some portion of the expected revenue of a generation facility but are not recorded as hedges under GAAP are referred to as “non-qualifying hedges” for adjusted earnings purposes. See Management's Discussion - Overview - Adjusted Earnings.



Certain facilities within the NEER wind and solar generation portfolio produce RECs and other environmental attributes which are typically sold along with the energy from the plants under long-term contracts. For the wind and solar generation not sold under long-term contracts, the RECs and other environmental attributes may be sold separately.



While the majority of NEER's revenue is derived from the output of its generating facilities, NEER is also an active competitor in several regions in the wholesale full requirements business and in providing structured and customized power and fuel products and services to a variety of customers. In the full requirements service, typically, the supplier agrees to meet the customer's needs for a full range of products for every hour of the day, at a fixed price, for a predetermined period of time, thereby assuming the risk of fluctuations in the customer's volume requirements.











The deregulated retail energy business is typically a highly competitive business. In general, competition in the retail energy business is on the basis of price, service, brand image, product offerings and market perceptions of creditworthiness. Electricity is sold pursuant to a variety of product types, including fixed, indexed and renewable products, and customers elect terms of service typically ranging from one month to five years. Retail energy rates are market-based, and not subject to traditional cost-of-service regulation by public utility commissions. Transmission and distribution service companies provide, on a non-discriminatory basis, the wires and metering services necessary to deliver service to customers. Subsidiaries of NEER compete in certain states for retail customers, which can be divided into two principal segments: residential and commercial and industrial (C&I). Residential customers largely require only energy services, which may be purchased on a month-to-month basis or under a multi-year contract. Small commercial customers behave and contract similarly to residential customers for an energy-only product.  Large C&I customers share many of the same characteristics as wholesale utility customers and may  require similarly customized and structured products.



In general, competitive retail electric providers are exposed to both volume and price risk: customers' volumes will vary, and competitive retail providers are committed to supplying the customer's full needs at all times and are therefore responsible for purchases in wholesale markets to meet those needs. Wholesale prices will fluctuate in ways that do not necessarily match the retail prices committed to the customer.



Expanded competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both opportunities and risks for NEER. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the construction and operation of efficient facilities that can sell power in competitive markets. NEER seeks to reduce its market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity output of its facilities.



GENERATION AND OTHER OPERATIONS



NEER sells products associated with its own generating facilities (energy, capacity, RECs and ancillary services) in competitive markets in regions where those facilities are located.  Customer transactions may be supplied from NEER generating facilities or from purchases in the wholesale markets, or from a combination thereof.



AtDecember 31, 2014, the locations of NEER's generation facilities in North America are as follows:







AtDecember 31, 2014, NEER managed or participated in the management of essentially all of its generation projects in which it has an ownership interest.











NEER categorizes its portfolio in a number of different ways for different business purposes. See a listing of NEER's generating facilities in Item 2. Properties - Generating Facilities. The following presentation details NEER operations and fuel/technology mix, which NEE commonly uses in communicating its business:



Contracted, Merchant and Other Operations



NEER's portfolio of operations based on the presence/absence of long-term contracts and other operations is described below.



Contracted Assets.Contracted assets are projects with long-term power sales agreements for substantially all of their output and certain wind assets where long-term power contracts are expected to be executed. AtDecember 31, 2014, NEER had 13,045 MW of contracted assets, substantially all of which have long-term power contracts. Essentially all of the output of these contracted assets were under power sales agreements, with a weighted-average remaining contract life of approximately 15 years, and some have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging from April 2015 through 2022. See Note 13 - Contracts. Approximately 9,583 MW of this capacity is wind generation and 1,621 MW of this capacity is nuclear generation. The remaining 1,841 MW use a variety of fuels and technologies such as natural gas, oil and solar.



Merchant Assets.Merchant assets are projects that do not have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output, or, in the case of certain wind assets, are not expected to have long-term power contracts, and therefore require active marketing and hedging. AtDecember 31, 2014, NEER's portfolio of merchant assets consists of 6,732 MW of owned wind, nuclear, natural gas, oil and solar generating facilities, including 846 MW of peak generating facilities. Approximately 60% (based on net MW capability) of the natural gas-fueled merchant assets have natural gas transportation agreements to provide for fluctuating natural gas requirements. See Note 13 - Contracts. Derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) are generally used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk inherent in power sales and fuel purchases. Managing market risk through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty, credit and operational risks.



Other Operations.NEER's operations also include the gas infrastructure business and the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses. AtDecember 31, 2014, the gas infrastructure business had non-operating ownership interests in investments located in oil and gas shale formations primarily in the Midwest and South regions of the U.S. NEER continues to pursue in a selective way opportunities in the upstream (exploration and production) area when it believes the return potential is attractive and to gain insight into the natural gas industry. Additionally, NEER has identified a small portfolio of projects that may provide additional opportunities to enter into the midstream area, primarily through the transportation of natural gas. See Other NEE Operating Subsidiaries - Natural Gas Pipeline Systems for a discussion of recent natural gas pipeline activity. See NEER Customer Supply and Proprietary Power and Gas Trading for a description of the customer supply and propriety power and gas trading businesses.



NEER Fuel/Technology Mix



NEER's generating output is produced using a variety of fuel sources as further described below.















NEER's power generation in terms of MWh produced for the year endedDecember 31, 2014by fuel type is as follows:









Wind Facilities



AtDecember 31, 2014, NEER had ownership interests in wind generating facilities with a total generating capacity of 11,427 MW. NEER operates all of these wind facilities, which are located in 19 states in the U.S. and 4 provinces in Canada. During 2014, NEER added approximately 1,024 MW of new U.S. wind generation and 340 MW of new Canadian wind generation and sold or dismantled wind facilities with generation capacity totaling 147 MW. NEER is currently planning to add new contracted wind generation in 2015 and 2016 totaling approximately 175 MW in Canada and 980 MW in the U.S. See Policy Incentives for Renewable Energy Projects below for additional discussion of NEER's expectations regarding wind development and construction.



Natural Gas Facilities



AtDecember 31, 2014, NEER had ownership interests in and operated natural gas facilities with net generating capacity (including only NEER's net ownership interest in facility capacity) of 3,991 MW. Approximately 1,004 MW of this net generating capacity is from contracted natural gas assets located throughout the Northeastern U.S.



Nuclear Facilities



AtDecember 31, 2014, NEER owned, or had undivided interests in, and operated the following four nuclear units with a total net generating capacity of 2,721 MW.



FacilityLocationMWPortfolioCategoryOperating LicenseExpiration DatesSeabrookNew Hampshire1,100Merchant2030(a)Duane ArnoldIowa431Contracted(b)2034Point Beach Unit No. 1Wisconsin595Contracted(c)2030Point Beach Unit No. 2Wisconsin595Contracted(c)2033

______________________

(a)In 2010, NEER filed an application with the NRC to renew Seabrook's operating license for an additional 20 years, which license renewal is dependent on NRC regulatory approvals.

(b)NEER sells all of its share of the output of Duane Arnold under a long-term contract expiring in February 2025.

(c)NEER sells all of the output of Point Beach Units Nos. 1 and 2 under long-term contracts through their current operating license expiration dates.



NEER's nuclear facilities have several contracts for the supply of uranium and the conversion, enrichment and fabrication of nuclear fuel with expiration dates ranging from late February 2015 through 2024. See Note 13 - Contracts. NEER is responsible for all nuclear unit operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the nuclear units, the cost of which is shared on a pro-rata basis by









the joint owners for the jointly-owned units. NRC regulations require plant owners to submit a plan for decontamination and decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant operation.



Nuclear Unit Scheduled Refueling Outages.NEER's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, including inspections, repairs and certain other modifications. Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require the unit to be removed from service for variable lengths of time. The following table summarizes each unit's next scheduled refueling outage:



FacilityNext ScheduledRefueling OutageSeabrookOctober 2015Duane ArnoldOctober 2016Point Beach Unit No. 1March 2016Point Beach Unit No. 2October 2015



Spent Nuclear Fuel.NEER's nuclear facilities use both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by these facilities, which are expected to provide sufficient storage of spent nuclear fuel at these facilities through license expiration.



As owners and operators of nuclear facilities, certain subsidiaries of NEER are subject to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act and are parties to the spent fuel settlement agreement described in FPL - FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations.



Nuclear Regulatory Developments.For discussion of developments regarding the impact of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan as it relates to U.S. nuclear facilities, see FPL - FPL Sources of Generation - Nuclear Operations - Nuclear Regulatory Developments. NEER's nuclear facilities are subject to the same NRC requirements as described for FPL. Duane Arnold is NEER's only boiling water reactor unit. NEER is currently working with the NRC on the approval and implementation of actions required to meet new NRC requirements, the costs of which are included in estimated capital expenditures. See Note 13 - Commitments.



Solar Facilities



AtDecember 31, 2014, NEER had ownership interests in solar facilities with a total net generating capacity of approximately 742 MW which are located in 4 states in the U.S. and 1 province in Canada. During 2014, NEER completed the construction of a 20 MW solar PV project in Nevada, a 250 MW solar thermal project in California and a 550 MW solar PV project in California, in which NEER has a 50% equity investment. NEER is currently planning to add new contracted solar generation in 2015 and 2016 totaling approximately 960 MW. In addition, NEER and its affiliates own solar thermal facilities with generating capacity of 99.8 MW in Spain (Spain solar projects). See Note 13 - Spain Solar Projects for developments that impact the Spain solar projects.



Other Assets



AtDecember 31, 2014, NEER had 796 MW of oil-fired generating facilities located in Maine.



Policy Incentives for Renewable Energy Projects





Solar project developers are also eligible to receive a 30% ITC for new solar projects that achieve commercial operation before 2017. Solar project developers can elect to receive an equivalent cash payment from the U.S. Department of Treasury for the value of the 30% ITC (convertible ITC) for qualifying solar projects where construction began before the end of 2011 and the projects are placed in service before 2017. Solar projects that achieve commercial operations after December 31, 2016 may qualify for an ITC of 10% of eligible installed costs.











Other countries, including Canada and Spain, provide for incentives like feed-in-tariffs for renewable energy projects. The feed-in-tariffs promote renewable energy investments by offering long-term contracts to renewable energy producers, typically based on the cost of generation of each technology. See Note 13 - Spain Solar Projects for developments in Spain.



NEER CUSTOMER SUPPLY AND PROPRIETARY POWER AND GAS TRADING



NEER's customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading businesses engage in energy-related commodity marketing and trading activities, provide commodities-related products to customers and include the operations of a retail electricity provider. PMI, a subsidiary of NEER, buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as electricity, natural gas and oil. PMI sells the output from NEER's plants that is not sold under long-term contracts and procures the fossil fuel for use by NEER's generation fleet. One of its primary roles is to manage the commodity risk of NEER's portfolio. PMI uses derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage the risk associated with fluctuating commodity prices and to optimize the value of NEER's power generation and gas infrastructure assets. PMI also markets and trades energy-related commodity products and provides a wide range of electricity and gas commodity products as well as marketing and trading services to customers. PMI's customer supply business provides full energy and capacity requirements to customers.



The results of the customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading activities are included in NEER's operating results. See Management's Discussion - Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity, Note 1 - Energy Trading and Note 3.



NEER REGULATION



The energy markets in which NEER operates are subject to domestic and foreign regulation, as the case may be, including local, state and federal regulation, and other specific rules.



AtDecember 31, 2014, NEER had ownership interests in operating independent power projects located in the U.S. that have received exempt wholesale generator status as defined under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, which represent approximately 97% of NEER's net generating capacity in the U.S. Exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers. They are barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers. NEER's exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind, fossil fuels, solar and nuclear facilities. Essentially all of the remaining 3% of NEER's net generating capacity has qualifying facility status under the PURPA. NEER's qualifying facilities generate electricity primarily from wind, solar and fossil fuels. Qualifying facility status exempts the projects from, among other things, many of the provisions of the Federal Power Act, as well as state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. While projects with qualifying facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction, operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental laws.



Additionally, most of the NEER facilities located in the U.S. are subject to FERC regulations and market rules, the NERC's mandatory reliability standards and the EPA's environmental laws, and its nuclear facilities are also subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC. See FPL - FPL Regulation for additional discussion of FERC, NERC, NRC and EPA regulations. With the exception of facilities located in ERCOT, the FERC has jurisdiction over various aspects of NEER's business in the U.S., including the oversight and investigation of competitive wholesale energy markets, regulation of the transmission and sale of natural gas, and oversight of environmental matters related to natural gas projects and major electricity policy initiatives. The PUCT has jurisdiction, including the regulation of rates and services, oversight of competitive markets, and enforcement of statutes and rules, over NEER facilities located in ERCOT.



NEER and its affiliates are also subject to federal and provincial or regional regulations in Canada and Spain related to energy operations, energy markets and environmental standards. In Canada, activities related to owning and operating wind and solar projects and participating in wholesale and retail energy markets are regulated at the provincial level. In Ontario, for example, electricity generation facilities must be licensed by the Ontario Energy Board and may also be required to complete registrations and maintain market participant status with the Independent Electricity System Operator, in which case they must agree to be bound by and comply with the provisions of the market rules for the Ontario electricity market as well as the mandatory reliability standards of the NERC.



NEER is subject to environmental laws and regulations, and is affected by some of the emerging issues related to renewable energy resources as described in the NEE Environmental Matters section below. In order to better anticipate potential regulatory changes, NEER continues to actively evaluate and participate in regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy commodities.



NEER EMPLOYEES



NEER and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,700 employees atDecember 31, 2014. Certain subsidiaries of NEER have collective bargaining agreements with the IBEW, the Utility Workers Union of America, the Security Police and Fire Professionals of America and the International Union of Operating Engineers, which collectively represent approximately 20% of NEER's employees. The collective bargaining agreements have one- to three-year terms and expire between late February 2015 and 2016.















III. OTHER NEE OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES



Corporate and Other represents other business activities, primarily NEET and FPL FiberNet, that are not separately reportable. See Note 14. In addition, certain subsidiaries of NEECH are pursuing approvals to invest in, build, own and operate an approximately 600-mile natural gas pipeline system to provide new natural gas transportation infrastructure in Florida and an approximately 300-mile natural gas pipeline to connect the natural gas supply in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions with markets in the Southeast region of the U.S.



NEET



NEET, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEECH, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware. NEET conducts its business primarily through two subsidiaries, Lone Star and NHT, and is pursuing opportunities to develop, build and operate new transmission facilities throughout North America. In 2013, an entity in which an affiliate of NEET has a joint venture investment was selected to complete development work for a 250-mile transmission line in Northwestern Ontario, Canada. Once development is complete, subject to Ontario Energy Board approval, the NEET affiliate, through its joint venture, is expected to construct, own and operate the new transmission line that is projected to begin service in 2020.



Lone Star



Lone Star, a rate-regulated transmission service provider in Texas, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware. Lone Star owns and operates approximately 330 miles of 345 kilovolt (kV) transmission lines and other associated facilities that were placed in service in 2012 and 2013. Lone Star is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the PUCT, the ERCOT, the NERC and the EPA, as well as certain limited regulations of the FERC. See FPL - FPL Regulation for further discussion of FERC, NERC and EPA regulations and NEE Environmental Matters. The PUCT has jurisdiction over a wide range of Lone Star's business activities, including, among others, rates charged to customers and certain aspects of the operation of transmission systems. The PUCT sets rates at a level that allows Lone Star the opportunity to collect from customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to Lone Star's cost of providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital.



In September 2014, the PUCT approved a stipulation and settlement between Lone Star and all intervenors relating to Lone Star’s base rate petition. The stipulation and settlement provides for an annual revenue requirement of approximately $102 million based on a $694 million rate base, a regulatory equity ratio of 45%, an allowed regulatory ROE of 9.6% and certain operating expenses.



NHT



NHT, a rate-regulated transmission owner in ISO-NE, is a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware. NHT owns transmission facilities which connect NEER's Seabrook nuclear facility to the New England transmission grid and interconnect three 345 kV transmission lines in New England. NHT is subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and other agencies, including, but not limited to, the New Hampshire Public Utility Commission, ISO-NE, the FERC, the NERC and the EPA. See FPL - FPL Regulation for further discussion of FERC, NERC and EPA regulations and NEE Environmental Matters. NHT wholesale transmission revenues are provided through an ISO-NE tariff.



FPL FIBERNET



FPL FiberNet conducts its business through two separate wholly-owned subsidiaries of NEECH. One subsidiary was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of NEE's fiber-optic network assets that were originally built to support FPL operations and the other was formed in 2011 to hold fiber-optic network assets which were acquired. Both subsidiaries are limited liability companies organized under the laws of Delaware. FPL FiberNet leases fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to FPL and other customers, primarily telephone, wireless, internet and other telecommunications companies. FPL FiberNet's networks cover most of the metropolitan areas in Florida and several in Texas. FPL FiberNet also has a long-haul network providing bandwidth at wholesale rates. The long-haul network connects major cities in Florida and Texas with additional connectivity to Atlanta, Georgia, New York and the South Central U.S., including Arkansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma. AtDecember 31, 2014, FPL FiberNet's network consisted of approximately 9,050 route miles. FPL FiberNet is subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission which has jurisdiction over wire and wireless communication networks and by the public utility commissions in the states in which it provides intrastate telecommunication services.



NATURAL GAS PIPELINE SYSTEMS



Florida Natural Gas Pipeline System



In 2013, FPL announced the winning proposals from its 2012 RFP for an approximately 600-mile natural gas pipeline system for new natural gas transportation infrastructure in Florida. The proposed pipeline system will be composed of two pipelines, each of which is expected to be operational beginning in mid-2017. Sabal Trail, which is 33% owned by a wholly-owned NEECH subsidiary









and will be a FERC-regulated entity, was selected to build, own and operate the northern pipeline that would originate in southwestern Alabama and end at a new hub to be built in Central Florida (Central Florida Hub). Florida Southeast Connection, which is a wholly-owned NEECH subsidiary and will be a FERC-regulated entity, was selected to build, own and operate the southern pipeline that would originate at the Central Florida Hub and end in Martin County, Florida at FPL's Martin power plant.



Total estimated capital expenditures for the 33% portion of the northern pipeline plus the entire southern pipeline are estimated to be approximately $1.5 billion. AtDecember 31, 2014, NEE's investment in the proposed pipeline system totaled approximately $103 million. The obligations of Sabal Trail and Florida Southeast Connection to build and operate the northern pipeline and southern pipeline, respectively, are subject to certain conditions, including FERC approval. A FERC decision is expected by the end of 2015.



See FPL - FPL Sources of Generation - Fossil Operations and Note 13 - Commitments and - Contracts.



Mountain Valley Pipeline



In October 2014, a wholly-owned NEECH subsidiary committed to make an equity investment in a joint venture which plans to construct an approximately 300-mile natural gas pipeline to connect the natural gas supply in the Marcellus and Utica shale regions with markets in the Southeast region of the U.S. Based on the NEECH subsidiary's expected ownership share, expected equity contributions by the NEECH subsidiary are approximately $1.0 billion to $1.3 billion depending on the ultimate size and scope of the natural gas pipeline project. The pipeline is expected to be placed in service by the end of 2018. Construction of the natural gas pipeline is subject to certain conditions, including FERC approval.



NEE ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



NEE and FPL are subject to domestic and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations. The following is a discussion of certain existing and emerging federal and state initiatives and rules, some of which could potentially have a material effect (either positive or negative) on NEE and its subsidiaries. FPL expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs associated with any new environmental laws and regulations.



•Clean Water Act Section 316(b).In May 2014, the EPA issued its final rule under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act outlining the process and framework for determining the Best Technology Available to reduce the impact on aquatic organisms from once-through cooling water intake systems. Under the rule, potentially eleven of FPL's facilities and five of NEER's facilities may be required to add additional controls and/or make operational changes to comply. NEE and FPL are analyzing the final rule, and the ultimate impacts will evolve over years of site specific studies, permit evaluations and negotiations. Therefore, the impact of any final compliance obligations is uncertain at this time. During the third quarter of 2014, several groups filed petitions for review of the EPA's final rule and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit will hear the case.





•

Avian/Bat Regulations and Wind Turbine Siting Guidelines.

FPL, NEER and NEET are subject to numerous environmental regulations and guidelines related to threatened and endangered species and their habitats,



as well as avian and bat species, for the siting, construction and





•Regulation of GHG Emissions.The U.S. Congress and certain states and regions continue to consider several legislative and regulatory proposals with respect to GHG emissions. The Government of Canada and its provinces are also taking certain actions, such as setting targets or goals, regarding the increase of renewable energy generation and the reduction of GHG emissions. The economic and operational impact of climate change legislation on NEE and FPL depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, whether states choose a rate-based or mass-based (based on pounds of CO2) approach for the distribution of allowances, the allowed emissions cap, whether emission allowances will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance. Based on the most recent reference data available from government sources, NEE is among the lowest emitters, among electric generators, of GHG in the U.S. measured by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of CO2per MWh of generation. However, the legislative and regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on FPL's and NEER's generating units and/or the financial impact (either positive or negative) to NEE and FPL could be material,









depending on the eventual structure of any specific implementation rules adopted.



In 2013, the EPA re-proposed standards for new fossil fuel-fired power units pursuant to a Presidential Memorandum related to the regulation of GHG emissions. The Presidential Memorandum also directed the EPA to issue a final rule for new fossil fuel-fired power units after considering all public comments and to propose a rule for existing fossil fuel-fired power units by June 2014 with a final rule by June 2015. In June 2014, as directed in the Presidential Memorandum, the EPA issued a proposed rule under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act to reduce carbon emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired power units. The proposed rule, named the Clean Power Plan, sets emission rate targets for each state and requires each state to develop a compliance plan by the summer of 2016 to meet these emissions targets. The proposed rule indicates that official compliance will start in 2020 with both interim and final target dates, each with specific emissions reductions. NEE and FPL are analyzing the proposed rule and the impact of any final compliance obligations is uncertain at this time. A final rule is expected in the summer of 2015.



NEER's plants operate in certain states and regions in the U.S. and provinces in Canada that continue to consider and implement regulatory proposals to reduce GHG emissions. RPS, currently in place in approximately 30 states and the District of Columbia, require electricity providers in the state or district to meet a certain percentage of their retail sales with energy from renewable sources. These standards vary, but the majority include requirements to meet 20% to 25% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from renewable sources by 2025. Approximately 7 other states in the U.S. have set renewable energy goals as well. Many Canadian provinces have enacted renewable energy goals and targets to reduce GHG emissions from historic levels which include various milestones and compliance mechanisms. NEER's plants operate in 24 states in the U.S. and 4 provinces in Canada that have a RPS or renewable energy goals and NEER believes that these standards and goals will create incremental demand for renewable energy in the future.



Other GHG reduction initiatives including, among others, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and the California Greenhouse Gas Regulation aim to reduce emissions through a variety of programs and under varying timelines. Based on its clean generating portfolio, NEER expects to continue experiencing a positive impact on earnings as a result of these GHG reduction initiatives. Additionally, these initiatives provide NEER opportunities with regards to wind and solar development as well as favorable energy pricing.



•Waters of the U.S.In March 2014, the EPA issued a proposed rule redefining "waters of the U.S." under the Clean Water Act to expand the definition of waters of the U.S. to encompass previously unregulated waters, such as intermittent streams, non-navigable tributaries, isolated wetlands and adjacent other waters. Under the proposed rule, subsidiaries of NEE could incur increased costs for siting and permitting new projects or when maintaining or making modifications to existing facilities and transmission and distribution lines. The ultimate economic and operational impact of the provisions of the proposed rule cannot be determined at this time. A final rule is not expected before the second quarter of 2015.



WEBSITE ACCESS TO SEC FILINGS



NEE and FPL make their SEC filings, including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on NEE's internet website, www.nexteraenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information and materials available on NEE's website (or any of its subsidiaries' websites) are not incorporated by reference into this combined Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.











EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF NEE(a)







NameAgePositionEffective Date

Miguel Arechabala54Executive Vice President, Power Generation Division of NEEExecutive Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPLJanuary 1, 2014

Deborah H. Caplan52Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Services of NEEExecutive Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Services of FPLApril 15, 2013

Paul I. Cutler55Treasurer of NEETreasurer of FPLAssistant Secretary of NEEFebruary 19, 2003February 18, 2003December 10, 1997

Moray P. Dewhurst59Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and Executive Vice President - Finance of NEEExecutive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of FPLOctober 5, 2011

Chris N. Froggatt57Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of NEEFebruary 27, 2010

Joseph T. Kelliher54Executive Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs of NEEMay 18, 2009

Manoochehr K. Nazar60President Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of NEEPresident Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of FPLMay 23, 2014May 30, 2014

Armando Pimentel, Jr.52President and Chief Executive Officer of NEEROctober 5, 2011

James L. Robo52Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of NEEChairman of FPLDecember 13, 2013May 2, 2012

Charles E. Sieving42Executive Vice President & General Counsel of NEEExecutive Vice President of FPLDecember 1, 2008January 1, 2009

Eric E. Silagy49President and Chief Executive Officer of FPLMay 30, 2014

William L. Yeager56Executive Vice President, Engineering, Construction & Integrated Supply Chain of NEEExecutive Vice President, Engineering, Construction & Integrated Supply Chain of FPLJanuary 1, 2013

______________________



(a)

Information is as of

February 20, 2015













