Item 1.  Business



FPL
GROUP



FPL
Group was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida.  FPL Group
has two principal operating subsidiaries, FPL and NextEra Energy
Resources.  FPL is a rate-regulated utility engaged primarily in the
generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy in
Florida.  NextEra Energy Resources is FPL Group's competitive energy
subsidiary which produces the majority of its electricity from clean and
renewable fuels.  FPL Group Capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL
Group, holds the capital stock of, or has equity interests in, FPL Group's
operating subsidiaries, other than FPL, and provides funding for those
subsidiaries, including NextEra Energy Resources.  At
December 31, 2009, FPL Group and its subsidiaries employed approximately
15,400 people.  For a discussion of FPL's and NextEra Energy
Resources' businesses, see FPL Operations and NextEra Energy Resources
Operations.  For financial information regarding FPL Group's business
segments, see Note 15.



Website Access to
SEC Filings.FPL Group and FPL make their SEC filings,
including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available free
of charge on FPL Group's internet website, www.fplgroup.com, as soon as
reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to
the SEC.  Information on FPL Group's website (or any of its
subsidiaries' websites) is not incorporated by reference in this combined annual
report on Form 10-K.  The SEC maintains an internet website at
www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and other information about FPL Group
and FPL filed electronically with the SEC.



FPL
OPERATIONS



General.FPL
was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925 and is a wholly-owned
subsidiary of FPL Group.  FPL supplies electric service to a
population of more than 8.7 million throughout most of the east and lower west
coasts of Florida.  During 2009, FPL served approximately 4.5 million
customer accounts.  The percentage of FPL's operating revenues by
customer class was as follows:



Years
      Ended December 31,200920082007Residential56%53%54%Commercial414039Industrial333Wholesale111Other,
      including deferred or recovered retail clause revenues, the net change in
      retail unbilled revenues, transmission sales and customer-related
      fees(1)33100%100%100%



Over the
last ten years, FPL's average annual customer growth has been
1.8%.  However, beginning in 2007, FPL has experienced a slowdown in
retail customer growth and a decline in non-weather related usage per retail
customer.  Retail customer growth in 2008 was 0.3%.  FPL's
average number of retail customers declined slightly during the first three
quarters of 2009 and remained essentially unchanged during the fourth quarter of
2009; the decline for the full year was 0.2%.  FPL believes that the
economic slowdown, the downturn in the housing market and the credit crisis that
have affected the country and the state of Florida have contributed to the
slowdown in customer growth and to the decline in non-weather related usage per
retail customer.  In December 2009, the unemployment rate in Florida
was 11.8%.  Beginning in 2007, FPL experienced an increase in inactive
accounts (accounts with installed meters without corresponding customer names)
and in low-usage customers (customers using less than 200 kwh per month), which
have contributed to the decline in retail customer growth and non-weather
related usage per retail customer.  In 2009, inactive accounts and
low-usage customers continued to increase much of the year but declined slightly
in the fourth quarter.  FPL is unable to predict whether or when
growth in customers and non-weather related customer usage might return to
previous trends.



Regulation.FPL's
retail operations provided approximately 99% of FPL's 2009 operating
revenues.  Retail operations are regulated by the FPSC, which has
jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of securities,
planning, siting and construction of facilities and other
matters.  FPL is also subject to regulation by the FERC with respect
to certain aspects of its operations, including, but not limited to, the
acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services
and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy.  The NERC
established mandatory reliability standards in 2007 to ensure the reliability of
the U.S. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system
blackouts.  Violations for non-compliance are subject to penalties of
up to $1 million per day per violation.  In addition, FPL's nuclear
power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC.  NRC
regulations govern the granting of licenses for the construction, operation and
retirement of nuclear power plants and subject these plants to continuing review
and regulation.






Retail
Ratemaking.The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to
set rates at a level that allows the utility the opportunity to collect from
customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing
service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested
capital.  To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking
mechanisms, including, among other things, base rates and cost recovery
clauses.



Base Rates- In general, the
basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain other
costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover the costs
of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system.  These
basic costs include O&M expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a
return on FPL's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric
service (rate base).  At the time base rates are determined, the
allowed rate of return on rate base approximates FPL's estimated
weighted-average cost of capital, which includes its costs for outstanding debt
and, typically, an allowed ROE.  The FPSC monitors FPL's actual
regulatory ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with
the FPSC.  The FPSC does not provide assurance that an allowed ROE
will be achieved.  Base rates are determined in rate proceedings or
through negotiated settlements, which occur at irregular intervals at the
initiative of FPL, the FPSC, the State of Florida Office of Public Counsel or a
substantially affected party.  Base rates remain in effect until new
base rates are approved by the FPSC.



In March
2009, FPL filed a petition with the FPSC requesting, among other things, a
permanent base rate increase of approximately $1 billion in 2010 and an
additional $250 million in 2011, which included additions to the storm and
property insurance reserve.  The requested increases were based on a
proposed regulatory ROE of 12.5% and excluded amounts associated with the
proposed extension of a Generation Base Rate Adjustment (GBRA) mechanism, which
allowed for automatic adjustments in retail base rates when approved power
plants achieved commercial operation, and certain proposed cost recovery clause
adjustments.





FPL is
evaluating the impact of the January 2010 rate ruling on its financial position,
including its credit quality and ability to attract capital over the long term
(see Management's Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources).  FPL
has suspended activities on the following projects representing approximately
$10 billion of investment over the next five years until the financial impact of
the final order, along with other factors, such as load-growth estimates, fuel
cost forecasts, demand side management and environmental incentives, can be
reviewed (see Capital Expenditures below):



·development
      of two additional nuclear units at FPL's Turkey Point site beyond what is
      required to receive an NRC license for each unit (see Nuclear Operations
      below);·modernization
      of FPL's Cape Canaveral and Riviera power plants (see Fossil Operations
      below);·reevaluation
      of options related to a proposed 300-mile underground natural gas pipeline
      in Florida; and·other
      infrastructure projects.



FPL is
also evaluating its options with respect to future regulatory actions regarding
the January 2010 rate ruling and, when it is issued, the final order, as well as
assessing the cost structure of its ongoing operations and reviewing other
planned capital expenditures for appropriate reductions.



Under a
rate agreement approved in 2005 (2005 rate agreement), retail base rates did not
increase except to allow recovery, under the GBRA mechanism, of the revenue
requirements of FPL's three power plants that achieved commercial operation
during the term of the 2005 rate agreement.  Retail base rates
increased when Turkey Point Unit No. 5 was placed in service in 2007 and when
WCEC Units Nos. 1 and 2 were placed in service in 2009.  During
the term of the 2005 rate agreement, FPL did not have an authorized regulatory
ROE for the purpose of addressing earnings levels; however, for all other
regulatory purposes, FPL had an ROE of 11.75%.  Under the terms of the
2005 rate agreement, FPL's electric property depreciation rates were based upon
the comprehensive depreciation studies it filed with the FPSC in March 2005;
however, FPL reduced depreciation on its plant in service by $125 million each
year, as allowed by the 2005 rate agreement.  The 2005 rate agreement
also provided for a revenue sharing mechanism, whereby revenues from retail base
operations in excess of certain thresholds would be shared with
customers.  During the term of the 2005 rate agreement, FPL's revenues
did not exceed the thresholds.






Cost Recovery Clauses- Cost
recovery clauses, which are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs
and provide a return on certain assets allowed to be recovered through the
various clauses, include substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange
expenses, conservation and certain environmental-related expenses, certain
revenue taxes and franchise fees.  Beginning in 2009, pre-construction
costs and carrying charges on construction costs for new nuclear capacity and
costs incurred for FPL's three solar generating facilities, one of which was
placed into service in 2009 and two of which are under construction, are also
recovered through cost recovery clauses.  These costs are recovered
through levelized monthly charges per kwh or kw, depending on the customer's
rate class, pursuant to the FPSC's cost recovery clauses.  These cost
recovery clause charges are calculated at least annually based on estimated
costs and estimated customer usage for the following year, plus or minus a
true-up adjustment to reflect the variance of actual costs and usage from the
estimates used in setting the adjustment charges for prior
periods.  An adjustment to the levelized charges may be approved
during the course of a year to reflect a projected variance based on actual
costs and usage.



In 2009,
fuel clause recoveries were approximately $5.9 billion.  FPL uses a
risk management fuel procurement program which was approved by the FPSC at the
program's inception.  The FPSC reviews the program activities and
results for prudence on an annual basis as part of its annual review of fuel
costs.  The program is intended to manage fuel price volatility by
locking in fuel prices for a portion of FPL's fuel requirements.  See
Energy Marketing and Trading below, Management's Discussion - Results of
Operations - FPL, Note 1 - Regulation and Note 3.  Pursuant
to an FPSC order, FPL was required to refund in the form of a one-time credit to
retail customers' bills the 2009 year-end estimated fuel overrecovery; in
January 2010, approximately $403 million was refunded to retail
customers.  At December 31, 2009, approximately $356 million of
retail fuel revenues were overrecovered.  The difference between the
refund and the December 31, 2009 overrecovery will be collected from retail
customers in a subsequent period.



Capacity
payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased power are
recovered from customers through the capacity clause and base
rates.  Beginning in March 2010, such payments will be recovered
entirely through the capacity clause.  In accordance with the FPSC's
nuclear cost recovery rule, FPL also recovers pre-construction costs and
carrying charges (equal to a pretax AFUDC rate) on construction costs for new
nuclear capacity through the capacity clause.  Once the new capacity
goes into service, it is expected that construction costs will be recovered
through base rate increases.  See Nuclear Operations
below.  In 2009, capacity clause recoveries were approximately $772
million.



Costs
associated with implementing energy conservation programs are recovered from
customers through the conservation clause.  In 2009, conservation
clause recoveries were approximately $198 million.  Certain costs of
complying with federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after
April 1993 and costs associated with FPL's three solar facilities are recovered
through the environmental clause.  In 2009, environmental clause
recoveries were approximately $91 million.  See Environmental and
Solar Operations below.



Other Recovery Mechanisms-
FPL maintains a funded storm and property insurance reserve.  Four
hurricanes in 2005 and three hurricanes in 2004 caused major damage in parts of
FPL's service territory.  Storm restoration costs incurred by FPL
during 2005 and 2004 exceeded the amount in the storm and property insurance
reserve, resulting in a storm reserve deficiency.  In 2007, FPL formed
a wholly-owned bankruptcy remote special purpose subsidiary for the purpose of
issuing storm-recovery bonds, pursuant to the securitization provisions of the
Florida Statutes and an FPSC financing order.  In May 2007, the FPL
subsidiary issued $652 million aggregate principal amount of senior secured
bonds (storm-recovery bonds), primarily for the after-tax equivalent of the
total of FPL's unrecovered balance of the 2004 storm restoration costs, the 2005
storm restoration costs and approximately $200 million to reestablish FPL's
storm and property insurance reserve.  The storm-recovery bonds,
including interest and bond issuance costs, are being repaid through a surcharge
to retail customers.  Prior to the issuance of these storm-recovery
bonds, FPL had been recovering the 2004 storm restoration costs from retail
customers through a storm damage surcharge.  See Management's
Discussion - Results of Operations - FPL and Note 9 - FPL.



The FPSC
has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers excessive or
imprudently incurred.  Such costs may include, among others, fuel and
O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units
are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the
construction or acquisition of new facilities.



Competition.FPL
currently holds 176 franchise agreements to provide electric service in various
municipalities and counties in Florida with varying expiration dates through
2040.  Of the 176 franchise agreements, 10 expire in 2010, 9 expire in
2011 and 157 expire during the period 2012 through 2040.  Negotiations
are ongoing to renew franchises with upcoming expirations.  FPL also
provides service to 13 other municipalities and to 22 unincorporated areas
within its service area without franchise agreements.  FPL considers
its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business.






FPL
currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy to
wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-generation for
other customer groups, primarily industrial customers.  The FERC has
jurisdiction over potential changes that could affect competition in wholesale
transactions.  In 2009, operating revenues from wholesale and
industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPL's total
operating revenues.  Various states, other than Florida, have enacted
legislation or have state commissions that have issued orders designed to allow
retail customers to choose their electricity supplier.  Management
believes it is unlikely there will be any state actions to restructure the
retail electric industry in Florida in the near future.  If the basis
of regulation for some or all of FPL's business changes from cost-based
regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off
unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or
refund.  Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation
assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to
assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment.  See
Management's Discussion - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates -
Regulatory Accounting.



The FPSC
promotes cost competitiveness in the building of new steam generating capacity
by requiring investor-owned electric utilities, such as FPL, to issue an RFP
except when the FPSC determines that an exception from the RFP process is in the
public interest.  The RFP process allows independent power producers
and others to bid to supply the new generating capacity.  If a bidder
has the most cost-effective alternative, meets other criteria such as financial
viability and demonstrates adequate expertise and experience in building and/or
operating generating capacity of the type proposed, the investor-owned electric
utility would seek to negotiate a power purchase agreement with the selected
bidder and request that the FPSC approve the terms of the power purchase
agreement and, if appropriate, provide the required authorization for the
construction of the bidder's generating capacity.  In 2007, the FPSC
eliminated the requirement for utilities to issue an RFP for new nuclear power
plants sited after June 2006.  See Nuclear Operations below regarding
the approval by the FPSC for two additional nuclear units.



Environmental.FPL
is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is affected by some of the
emerging issues included in the Environmental Matters section.  FPL
expects to seek recovery through the environmental clause for compliance costs
associated with any new environmental laws and regulations.



During
2009, FPL spent approximately $214 million on capital additions to comply with
existing environmental laws and regulations.  FPL's capital
expenditures to comply with existing environmental laws and regulations are
estimated to be $424 million for 2010 through 2012, including approximately $236
million in 2010, and are included in estimated planned capital expenditures set
forth in Capital Expenditures below.



System Capability
and Load.



Fuel
Mix.FPL's generating plants use a variety of
fuels.  The diverse fuel options, along with purchased power, are
intended to enable FPL to shift between sources of generation to achieve a more
economical fuel mix.  See Fossil Operations and Nuclear Operations
below, and Item 2 - Generating Facilities.



FPL's
2009 fuel mix based on kwh produced was as follows:



Fuel
      SourcePercentage
      ofkwh
      ProducedNatural
      gas56%Nuclear21%Purchased
      power13%Coal6%Oil4%








Fossil
Operations.FPL owns and operates 81 units that use fossil
fuels such as natural gas and/or oil, and has a joint-ownership interest in
three coal units.  FPL's fossil units are out of service from time to
time for routine maintenance or on standby during periods of reduced electricity
demand.  FPL is currently constructing a natural gas-fired
combined-cycle unit of approximately 1,220 mw at its WCEC, which is expected to
be placed in service by mid-2011.  In 2008, the FPSC approved FPL's
plan to modernize its Cape Canaveral and Riviera power plants to high-efficiency
natural gas-fired units.  Each modernized plant is expected to provide
approximately 1,200 mw of capacity and be placed in service by 2013 and 2014,
respectively.  However, FPL has suspended activities on the
modernization of the two power plants.  See Retail Ratemaking above
and Capital Expenditures below.





FPL has,
through its joint ownership interest in St. Johns River Power Park (SJRPP) Units
Nos. 1 and 2, a coal supply and transportation contract for all of the 2010 fuel
needs and a portion of the 2011 fuel needs for those units.  All of
the transportation requirements and a portion of the coal supply needs for
Scherer Unit No. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long-term
contracts.  FPL's remaining fuel requirements for these units will be
obtained in the spot market.  See
Note 14 - Contracts.



Nuclear
Operations.FPL owns, or has undivided interests in, and
operates four nuclear units, two at Turkey Point and two at St. Lucie, with a
total net generating capability of 2,939 mw.  The nuclear units are
periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and
maintenance outages, repairs and certain other
modifications.  Scheduled nuclear refueling outages typically require
the unit to be removed from service for approximately 30 days.  This
duration is longer for expanded scope outages.  The following table
summarizes certain information related to FPL's nuclear units:



FacilityUnitNetCapability(mw)Operating
      LicenseExpiration
      DatesNext
      ScheduledRefueling
      OutageSt.
      Lucie18392036April
      2010St.
      Lucie27142043January
      2011Turkey
      Point36932032September
      2010Turkey
      Point46932033March










FPL uses
both on-site storage pools and dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel
generated by St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2, which should allow FPL to
store all spent nuclear fuel at this facility through license
expiration.  FPL currently stores all spent nuclear fuel generated by
Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 in on-site storage pools.  These
spent nuclear fuel storage pools do not have sufficient storage capacity for the
life of the respective units.  Beginning in 2011, FPL plans to begin
using dry storage casks to store spent nuclear fuel generated by the Turkey
Point facility, which should allow FPL to store all spent nuclear fuel at this
facility through license expiration.



The
NRC's regulations require FPL to submit a plan for decontamination and
decommissioning five years before the projected end of plant
operation.  FPL's current plans, under the operating licenses, provide
for prompt dismantlement of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with
decommissioning activities commencing in 2032 and 2033,
respectively.  Current plans provide for St. Lucie Unit No. 1 to
be mothballed beginning in 2036 with decommissioning activities to be integrated
with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 at the end of its
useful life in 2043.  See estimated decommissioning cost data in
Note 1 - Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of
Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs - FPL.



Solar
Operations.In 2009, FPL
placed into service its first utility-scale solar generating facility, a 25 mw
photovoltaic (PV) facility in DeSoto County, Florida.  FPL is
currently constructing a 75 mw solar thermal facility in Martin County, Florida
and a 10 mw solar PV facility in Brevard County, Florida, which are expected to
be placed into service by the end of 2010.  The construction costs of
the Martin County and Brevard County solar generating facilities yet to be
incurred as of December 31, 2009 are included in estimated planned capital
expenditures set forth in Capital Expenditures below.



Energy Marketing and
Trading.EMT buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such
as natural gas, oil and electricity.  EMT procures natural gas and oil
for FPL's use in power generation and sells excess natural gas, oil and
electricity.  EMT also uses derivative instruments, such as swaps,
options and forwards, to manage the commodity price risk inherent in the
purchase and sale of fuel and electricity.  Substantially all of the
results of EMT's activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or
capacity clauses.  See Retail Ratemaking above, Management's
Discussion - Results of Operations - FPL and Energy Marketing and Trading and
Market Risk Sensitivity and Note 3.



Capital
Expenditures.Capital expenditures at FPL include, among other
things, the cost for construction or acquisition of additional facilities and
equipment to meet customer demand, as well as capital improvements to and
maintenance of existing facilities.  Planned capital expenditures that
are conditional on obtaining regulatory approvals are not included in the table
below until such approvals are received.






FPL's
actual capital expenditures for 2007 through 2009 and estimated planned capital
expenditures for 2010 through 2014 as of December 31, 2009 were as
follows:



ActualPlanned(a)20072008200920102011201220132014Total(millions)Generation:(b)New(c)
      (d)$396$880$1,203$1,120$985$305$5$-$2,415Existing5866016515304903903203302,060Transmission
      and distribution8757376004404604804804802,340Nuclear
      fuel194130178105200175250205935General
      and other771011352602702702601301,190Total$2,128$2,449$2,767$2,455$2,405$1,620$1,315$1,145$8,940

¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾

(a)Excludes
      capital expenditures of approximately $685 million in 2010, $1,310 million
      in 2011, $2,505 million in 2012, $2,605 million in 2013 and $1,805 million
      in 2014 for the following: (1) construction costs for the two additional
      nuclear units at FPL's Turkey Point site beyond what is required to
      receive an NRC license for each unit, (2) modernization of the Cape
      Canaveral and Riviera power plants and (3) other infrastructure
      projects.  See Retail Ratemaking above.(b)Includes
      AFUDC of approximately $36 million, $50 million, $74 million, $47 million,
      $27 million and $4 million in 2007 to 2012,
  respectively.(c)Includes
      land, generating structures, transmission interconnection and integration
      and licensing.(d)Includes
      pre-construction costs and carrying charges (equal to a pretax AFUDC rate)
      on construction costs recoverable through the capacity clause of
      approximately $50 million, $41 million, $147 million, $390 million and $37
      million in 2008 to 2012,
respectively.



These
estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital
expenditures may vary significantly from these estimates.  See
Management's Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Contractual
Obligations and Estimated Planned Capital Expenditures and Note 14 -
Commitments.



Electric and
Magnetic Fields.EMF are present around electrical facilities,
including, but not limited to, appliances, power lines and building
wiring.  Since the 1970s, there has been public, scientific and
regulatory attention given to the question of whether EMF causes or contributes
to adverse health effects.  U.S. and international scientific
organizations have evaluated the EMF research.  Their reviews have
generally concluded that while some epidemiology studies report an association
with childhood leukemia, controlled laboratory studies do not support that
association and the scientific studies overall have not demonstrated that EMF
cause or contribute to any type of cancer or other disease.



The FDEP established EMF standards for
electricity facilities in 1989 and FPL facilities comply with these
standards.  Future changes in the FDEP regulations could require
additional capital expenditures by FPL for such things as increasing the width
of right of ways or relocating or reconfiguring transmission
facilities.  It is not presently known whether any such expenditures
will be required.  Currently, there are no such changes proposed to
the FDEP regulations.



Employees.FPL
had approximately 10,500 employees at December 31,
2009.  Approximately 31% of the employees are represented by the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) under a collective
bargaining agreement with FPL that expires October 31, 2011.



NEXTERA
ENERGY RESOURCES OPERATIONS



General.NextEra
Energy Resources, a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group Capital, was formed in
1998 to aggregate FPL Group's existing competitive energy
businesses.  It is a limited liability company organized under the
laws of Delaware.  Through its subsidiaries, NextEra Energy Resources
currently owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates primarily domestic
electric-generating facilities in wholesale energy markets.  NextEra
Energy Resources also provides full energy and capacity requirements services
primarily to distribution utilities in certain markets and owns a retail
electric provider based in Texas.  NextEra Energy Resources also
engages in power and gas marketing and trading activities.



At
December 31, 2009, NextEra Energy Resources managed or participated in the
management of approximately 97% of its projects, which represented approximately
99% of the net generating capacity in which NextEra Energy Resources has an
ownership interest.  NextEra Energy Resources had ownership interests
in operating independent power projects with a net generating capability
totaling 18,148 mw (see Item 2 - Generating
Facilities).  Generation capacity spans various regions and is
produced using a variety of fuel sources, thereby reducing overall volatility
related to varying market conditions and seasonality on a portfolio
basis.  At December 31, 2009, the percentage of capacity by
geographic region was:



Geographic
      RegionPercentage
      of Generation CapacityERCOT29%Northeast28%Midwest21%West15%Other
      South7%








At
December 31, 2009, fuel sources for these projects were as
follows:



Fuel
      SourcePercentage
      of Generation CapacityWind41%Natural
      Gas37%Nuclear14%Oil5%Hydro2%Solar
      and other1%





NextEra
Energy Resources' actual capital expenditures and investments for 2007 through
2009 and estimated planned capital expenditures for 2010 through 2014 as of
December 31, 2009 were as follows:



ActualPlanned20072008200920102011201220132014Total(millions)Wind(a)$1,795$2,255$2,625$1,895$15$15$10$5$1,940Nuclear(b)1,1203354555603253152552351,690Natural
      gas1201151207575705020290Solar10204019544048595-1,215Other30801106560454550265Total$3,075$2,805$3,350$2,790$915$930$455$310$5,400

¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾

(a)Includes
      capital expenditures for new wind projects that have been identified and
      related transmission.  NextEra Energy Resources expects to add
      new wind generation of approximately 1,000 mw in 2010 and 1,000 mw to
      1,500 mw in each of 2011 and 2012, subject to, among other things,
      continued public policy support, support for the construction and
      availability of sufficient transmission facilities and capacity, continued
      market demand, supply chain expansion and access to capital at reasonable
      cost and on reasonable terms.  The cost of the planned wind
      additions for 2011 and 2012 is estimated to be approximately $2.2 billion
      to $3.3 billion in each year, which is not included in the table
      above.(b)Includes
      nuclear fuel.



These
estimates are subject to continuing review and adjustment and actual capital
expenditures may vary significantly from these estimates.  See
Management's Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Contractual
Obligations and Estimated Planned Capital Expenditures and Note 14 -
Commitments.



Portfolio by
Category.NextEra Energy
Resources' generating assets are categorized as follows:



Wind Assets- At
December 31, 2009, NextEra Energy Resources had ownership interests in wind
plants with a combined capacity of approximately 7,544 mw (net ownership), of
which approximately 75% have long-term contracts with utilities and power
marketers, predominantly under fixed-price agreements with expiration dates
ranging from 2011 to 2034.  The expected output of the remaining 25%
is substantially hedged through 2011 and partially hedged through 2016 against
changes in commodity prices.  NextEra Energy Resources operates
substantially all of these wind facilities.  Approximately 92% of
NextEra Energy Resources' net ownership in wind facilities has received exempt
wholesale generator status as defined under the Holding Company
Act.  Essentially all of the remaining facilities have qualifying
facility status under PURPA.  NextEra Energy Resources' wind
facilities are located in 17 states and Canada.  NextEra Energy
Resources expects to add approximately 1,000 mw of new wind generation in
2010.






Contracted Assets- At
December 31, 2009, NextEra Energy Resources had 3,533 mw of non-wind
contracted assets.  The contracted category includes all projects,
other than wind, with contracts for substantially all of their
output.  Essentially all of these contracted assets were under power
sales contracts with utilities, with contract expiration dates ranging from 2011
to 2033 and have firm fuel and transportation agreements with expiration dates
ranging from December 2010 to 2022.  See
Note 14 - Contracts.  Approximately 1,825 mw of this
capacity is natural gas-fired generation.  The remaining 1,708 mw uses
a variety of fuels and technologies such as nuclear, oil, solar, coal and
petroleum coke.  As of December 31, 2009, approximately 93% of
NextEra Energy Resources' contracted generating capacity is from power plants
that have received exempt wholesale generator status under the Holding Company
Act, while the remaining 7% has qualifying facility status under
PURPA.



Merchant Assets- At
December 31, 2009, NextEra Energy Resources' portfolio of merchant assets
includes 7,071 mw of owned nuclear, natural gas, oil and hydro generation, of
which 3,772 mw is located in the Northeast region, 2,792 mw in the ERCOT region
and 507 mw in the West region.  The merchant assets include 1,017 mw
of peak generating facilities.  Merchant assets are plants that do not
have long-term power sales agreements to sell their output and therefore require
active marketing and hedging.  Approximately 75% (based on net mw
capability) of the natural gas fueled merchant assets have natural gas supply
agreements or a combination of natural gas supply and transportation agreements
to provide for on-peak natural gas requirements.  In mid-2010, two
natural gas fired plants, located in California and Pennsylvania, with a
combined net generating capacity of approximately 1,250 mw, will move to the
contracted assets category when their respective long-term power sales
agreements become effective.  See Note 14 -
Contracts.  Derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures
and forwards) are used to lock in pricing and manage the commodity price risk
inherent in power sales and fuel purchases.  Managing market risk
through these instruments introduces other types of risk, primarily counterparty
and operational risks.  See Energy Marketing and Trading
below.



Nuclear
Operations.NextEra Energy Resources wholly owns, or has
undivided interests in, three nuclear power plants with a total net generating
capability of 2,552 mw.  NextEra Energy Resources is responsible for
all plant operations and the ultimate decommissioning of the plants, the cost of
which is shared on a pro-rata basis by the joint owners for the jointly owned
plants.  See estimated decommissioning cost data in
Note 1 - Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of
Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs - NextEra Energy
Resources.  The nuclear units are periodically removed from service to
accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs and certain other
modifications.  The following table summarizes certain information
related to NextEra Energy Resources' nuclear units:



FacilityLocationNetCapability(mw)PortfolioCategoryOperating
      License Expiration DatesNext
      ScheduledRefueling
      OutageSeabrookNew
      Hampshire1,098Merchant2030(a)April
      2011Duane
      ArnoldIowa431Contracted(b)2014(c)October
      2010Point
      Beach Unit No. 1Wisconsin509Contracted(d)2030March
      2010Point
      Beach Unit No. 2Wisconsin514Contracted(d)2033March

¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾

(a)NextEra
      Energy Resources intends to seek approval from the NRC to renew Seabrook's
      operating license for an additional 20 years.(b)NextEra
      Energy Resources sells substantially all of its share of the output of
      Duane Arnold under a long-term contract expiring in
  2014.(c)In
      2008, NextEra Energy Resources filed an application with the NRC to renew
      Duane Arnold's operating license for an additional 20
    years.(d)NextEra
      Energy Resources sells 100% of the output of Point Beach Units Nos. 1 and
      2 under a long-term contract through the current license
      terms.



NextEra
Energy Resources is in the process of adding approximately 80 mw of capacity at
each of its existing nuclear units at Point Beach during the scheduled refueling
outages in the fall of 2011 for Unit No. 1 and the spring of 2011 for Unit
No. 2.  The construction costs relating to the capacity additions
yet to be incurred as of December 31, 2009 are included in estimated
planned capital expenditures set forth in Capital Expenditures
above.  See Note 14 - Commitments.








Energy Marketing and
Trading.



Regulation.At
December 31, 2009, NextEra Energy Resources had ownership interests in
operating independent power projects that have received exempt wholesale
generator status as defined under the Holding Company Act, which represent
approximately 95% of NextEra Energy Resources' net generating
capacity.  Exempt wholesale generators own or operate a facility
exclusively to sell electricity to wholesale customers.  They are
barred from selling electricity directly to retail customers.  NextEra
Energy Resources' exempt wholesale generators produce electricity from wind,
hydropower, fossil fuels and nuclear facilities.  Essentially all of
the remaining 5% of NextEra Energy Resources' net generating capacity has
qualifying facility status under PURPA.  NextEra Energy Resources'
qualifying facilities generate electricity from wind, solar, fossil fuels or
waste coal.  Qualifying facility status exempts the projects from,
among other things, many of the provisions of the Federal Power Act, as well as
state laws and regulations relating to rates and financial or organizational
regulation of electric utilities.  While projects with qualifying
facility and/or exempt wholesale generator status are exempt from various
restrictions, each project must still comply with other federal, state and local
laws, including, but not limited to, those regarding siting, construction,
operation, licensing, pollution abatement and other environmental
laws.



Each of
the markets in which NextEra Energy Resources operates is subject to regulation
and specific rules.  NextEra Energy Resources continues to evaluate
regional market redesigns of existing operating rules for the integration of
renewable energy resources and for the purchase and sale of energy
commodities.  ERCOT is scheduled to implement a locational marginal
price (LMP) market design (a market-pricing approach used to manage the
efficient use of the transmission system when congestion occurs on the
electricity grid) in late 2010.  The final ERCOT market design has not
yet been determined, therefore, NextEra Energy Resources is currently unable to
determine the effects, if any, on its business resulting from implementation of
the final market design.  In the second quarter of 2009, California
implemented a LMP market design, which did not have a material effect on NextEra
Energy Resources' business.  Additionally, certain NextEra Energy
Resources facilities are subject to the NERC’s mandatory reliability standards,
and its nuclear facilities are subject to the jurisdiction of the
NRC.






Competition.Competitive
wholesale markets in the United States continue to evolve and vary among and
within geographic regions.  Revenues from electricity sales in these
markets vary based on the prices obtainable for energy, capacity and other
ancillary services.  Some of the factors affecting success in these
markets include the ability to operate generating assets efficiently and
reliably, the price and supply of fuel, transmission constraints, wind, solar
and hydro resources (weather conditions), competition from regulated utilities
and new sources of generation, effective risk management, demand growth,
environmental requirements and exposure to legal and regulatory
changes.



Expanded
competition in a frequently changing regulatory environment presents both
opportunities and risks for NextEra Energy Resources.  Opportunities
exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets and for the
construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell power in
competitive markets.  NextEra Energy Resources seeks to reduce its
market risk by having a diversified portfolio by fuel type and location, as well
as by contracting for the future sale of a significant amount of the electricity
output of its plants.



Environmental.NextEra
Energy Resources is subject to environmental laws and regulations and is
affected by some of the emerging issues included in the Environmental Matters
section.



During
2009, NextEra Energy Resources spent approximately $4 million on capital
additions to comply with existing environmental laws and
regulations.  NextEra Energy Resources' capital expenditures to comply
with existing environmental laws and regulations are estimated to be $14 million
for 2010 through 2012, including approximately $6 million in 2010, and are
included in estimated planned capital expenditures set forth in General
above.



Employees.NextEra
Energy Resources and its subsidiaries had approximately 4,570 employees at
December 31, 2009.  Subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources have
collective bargaining agreements with various unions which are summarized in the
table below.



UnionLocationContractExpiration
      Date%
      of NextEra EnergyResources
      EmployeesCoveredIBEWWisconsinAugust
      2010 - August 2012(a)10%Utility
      Workers Union of AmericaNew
      HampshireDecember
      20135IBEWIowaMay
      20124IBEWMaineFebruary
      20132Security
      Police and Fire Professionals of AmericaIowaJuly
      20122IBEWCaliforniaMarch
      2012-(b)Total23%

¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾

(a)Various
      employees at Point Beach are represented by the IBEW under four separate
      contracts with different expiration dates.(b)Employees
      constitute less than 1% of NextEra Energy Resources'
      employees.





OTHER
FPL GROUP OPERATIONS



FPL
Group's Corporate and Other segment represents other business activities,
primarily FPL FiberNet and Lone Star Transmission, that are not separately
reportable.  See Note 15.



FPL
FiberNet.FPL FiberNet, a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group
Capital, was formed in 2000 to enhance the value of FPL Group's fiber-optic
network assets that were originally built to support FPL
operations.  Accordingly, in 2000, FPL's existing fiber-optic lines
were transferred to FPL FiberNet.  FPL FiberNet is a limited liability
company organized under the laws of Delaware.  FPL FiberNet leases
wholesale fiber-optic network capacity and dark fiber to FPL and other
customers, primarily telephone, wireless carriers, internet and other
telecommunications companies.  FPL FiberNet's primary business focus
is the Florida metropolitan (metro) market.  Metro networks cover
Miami, Fort Lauderdale, West Palm Beach, Tampa, St. Petersburg, Orlando and
Jacksonville.  FPL FiberNet also has a long-haul network within
Florida that leases bandwidth at wholesale rates.  At
December 31, 2009, FPL FiberNet's network consisted of approximately 2,950
route miles, which interconnect major cities throughout Florida.



At
December 31, 2009, FPL Group's investment in FPL FiberNet totaled
approximately $164 million.  FPL FiberNet invested approximately $54
million during 2009 and plans to invest a total of approximately $110 million
over the next five years primarily to meet customers' specific requirements
under contract.






Lone Star
Transmission.



ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS



Federal,
state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air and water quality,
land use, power plant and transmission line siting, EMF from power lines and
substations, oil discharge from transformers, lead paint, asbestos, noise and
aesthetics, solid waste, natural resources, wildlife mortality and other
environmental matters.  Compliance with these laws and regulations
increases the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes
in the design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the
location, design, construction and operation of new
facilities.  Environmental laws and regulations are subject to
change.  The following is a discussion of emerging federal and state
initiatives and rules that could potentially affect FPL Group and its
subsidiaries, including FPL and NextEra Energy Resources.



Climate Change- The U.S.
Congress and certain states and regions are considering several legislative and
regulatory proposals that would establish new regulatory requirements and
reduction targets for GHG emissions.  In June 2009, the U.S. House of
Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009
(ACESA) to encourage the development of clean energy sources and reduce GHG
emissions.  ACESA would establish, among other things, provisions for
federal renewable energy standards for electric suppliers and a national cap and
trade program to reduce GHG emissions.  The U.S. Senate is considering
similar proposals. It is not clear whether and when this or similar legislation
may be enacted.  The economic and operational impact of this or any
similar legislation on FPL Group and FPL depends on a variety of factors,
including, but not limited to, the allowed emissions, whether the permitted
emissions will be allocated or auctioned, the cost to reduce emissions or buy
allowances in the marketplace, and the availability of offsets and mitigating
factors to moderate the costs of compliance.  If and until legislation
is enacted and implementing regulations are adopted, the economic and
operational impact (either positive or negative) on FPL Group and FPL cannot be
determined but could be material.





Based on
current reference data available from government sources, FPL Group is among the
lowest emitters, among electric generators, of GHG in the United States measured
by its rate of emissions expressed as pounds of CO2per
megawatt-hour (mwh) of generation.  However, the legislative and
regulatory proposals have differing methods of implementation and the impact on
FPL's and NextEra Energy Resources' generating units and/or the financial impact
(either positive or negative) to FPL Group and FPL could be material, depending
on the eventual structure of any legislation enacted or specific implementation
rules adopted.






In
anticipation of the potential for further imposition of GHG emission limits on
the electric industry in the future, FPL Group has taken a leadership role in
the debate of climate change regulation and is involved in several climate
change initiatives, including, but not limited to, the following:



·voluntary
      reporting of its GHG emissions and climate change strategy through the
      Carbon Disclosure Project (an investor-led initiative to identify climate
      change impacts on publicly-traded
companies);



·participation
      in the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (an alliance made up of a diverse
      group of U.S.-based businesses and environmental organizations, which in
      January 2009 issued the Blueprint for Legislative Action, a set of
      legislative principles and recommendations to address global climate
      change and the reduction of GHG
emissions);



·participation
      in the Clinton Global Initiative (an organization which seeks to foster
      shared commitment by individuals, businesses and governments to confront
      major world issues and achieve real
change);



·participated
      in the EPA's Climate Leaders Program to reduce GHG intensity in the United
      States 18% by 2012, including reporting of emissions data
      annually.  During 2008, FPL Group met its commitment to achieve
      a 2008 target emissions rate reduction of 18% below a 2001 baseline
      emission rate measured in pounds per
mwh;



·supporting
      Edison Electric Institute's climate change framework, which supports the
      concept of mandatory legislation capping carbon emissions economy wide and
      recommends, among other things, an 80% reduction of carbon emissions from
      current levels by 2050;



·participation
      in various groups, including working with the Governor of Florida on the
      Governor's Action Team on Energy and Climate Change, the FDEP, the Florida
      Energy and Climate Commission and the FPSC in addressing executive orders
      issued in 2007 by the Governor of Florida (see below for additional
      information); and



·focusing
      on customer energy efficiency and conservation through programs such as
      Energy Smart Florida and EarthEra Renewable Energy
  Trust.



In 2007,
the Governor of Florida issued three executive orders aimed at reducing Florida
GHG emissions and improving Florida's energy efficiency.  The orders
state, among other things, that Florida utilities will be required to reduce
emissions to 2000 levels by 2017; to 1990 levels by 2025; and to 20% of 1990
levels by 2050, and that the FPSC should begin the process of adopting a
renewable portfolio standard that would require utilities to produce at least
20% of their energy from renewable sources, with an emphasis on wind and solar
energy.  The FPSC submitted a draft rule in January 2009 which was not
adopted by the legislature.  The FDEP is currently evaluating various
options regarding GHG emissions reductions.  Any rule issued by FDEP
or FPSC would require approval by the legislature.  The impact of any
future legislation on FPL and FPL Group cannot be determined at this
time.



NextEra
Energy Resources' plants operate in many states and regions that have developed
or are in the process of developing legislation to reduce GHG emissions,
including, but not limited to, the following:



·Renewable
      portfolio standards (RPS), currently in place in 31 states, require
      electricity providers in the state to meet a certain percentage of their
      retail sales with energy from renewable sources.  These
      standards vary by state, but the majority include requirements to meet 10%
      to 25% of the electricity providers' retail sales with energy from
      renewable sources by 2025.



·The
      Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) is a GHG reduction initiative
      whereby ten Northeast and Mid-Atlantic member states have established a
      cap and trade program for covered electric generating units in
      Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York,
      Vermont, Maryland, Massachusetts and Rhode Island.  RGGI members
      have agreed to stabilize power plant CO2emissions at 2009 levels through the end of 2014 and to further reduce the
      sector's emissions another 10% by the end of 2018.  The RGGI GHG
      reduction requirements will affect 12 NextEra Energy Resources' fossil
      electric generating units, requiring those electric generating units to
      reduce emissions or to acquire CO2allowances for emissions of CO2beginning in 2009.  All RGGI states have enacted legislation and
      regulations.  Based on NextEra Energy Resources' clean
      generating portfolio in the RGGI marketplace, NextEra Energy Resources
      experienced a positive impact on earnings in 2009 and expects that the
      requirements will have a positive overall impact on NextEra Energy
      Resources' earnings in 2010.



·The
      Western Climate Initiative is a GHG reduction initiative with a goal of
      reducing CO2emissions by 15% below 2005 levels by 2020 for participants (Arizona,
      California, Oregon, Montana, New Mexico, Washington and Utah, as well as
      British Columbia, Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec,
  Canada).



·California
      Greenhouse Gas Regulation - California has enacted legislation to reduce
      GHG emissions in the state to 1990 emissions levels by
      2020.  Pursuant to the legislation, the California Air Resources
      Board (CARB) must implement multi-sector GHG reduction measures by January
      1, 2012.  The CARB has released a proposed GHG program which
      includes a cap and trade program and administrative fee on GHG emissions
      sources but excludes certain details.  The CARB anticipates
      supplementing its proposal in the spring of 2010 and finalizing it in
      November 2010.








·The
      Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord (MGGRA) is an initiative to
      reduce GHG emissions through the establishment of targets for GHG
      reductions and the development of a cap and trade
      program.  Participants in MGGRA are Illinois, Iowa, Kansas,
      Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Manitoba, Canada.  MGGRA has
      proposed a multi-sector program that, if implemented, will initially be
      focused on the electricity generation and imports, industrial combustion
      and industrial processes sectors.  Currently, NextEra Energy
      Resources does not have any fossil-fired generation in the MGGRA
      region.



Except
as discussed above regarding RPS and the RGGI, the final requirements to be
enacted in connection with these initiatives are uncertain and the financial and
operational impacts on FPL Group cannot be determined at this
time.  However, NextEra Energy Resources' portfolio in these regions
is heavily weighted toward non-CO2emitting
and low CO2emitting generation sources (wind, hydro, solar, nuclear and natural
gas).



Clean Air Act Mercury/Nickel
Rule



Clean Air Interstate Rule
(CAIR)- In 2005, the EPA published a final rule that requires SO2and NOx
emissions reductions from electric generating units in 28 states, where the
emissions from electric generating units are deemed to be transported to
downwind states, allegedly resulting in fine particulate (PM 2.5) and ozone
non-attainment areas.  In July 2008, the DC Circuit issued an opinion
vacating the CAIR and remanded the rule to the EPA for further
rulemaking.  In September 2008, the EPA and three other parties
petitioned for rehearing of that order.  In December 2008, the DC
Circuit remanded the CAIR back to the EPA for further rulemaking without
vacating the rule.  Because the DC Circuit chose not to vacate the
rule, FPL Group and FPL were required to begin complying with the current
version of the CAIR on January 1, 2009 and must continue to comply until
the EPA rewrites the rule; a proposed rule is expected to be published in
mid-2010.  The impact of complying with the current version of the
CAIR has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on the
financial statements of FPL Group and FPL.



FPL
Group and others have urged the EPA to move forward with separate rulemaking
that removes the NOx fuel adjustment factors deemed unlawful by the
court.  FPL Group contends that the NOx fuel adjustment factors are
used to unfairly skew the allocation of emission allowances to states with
relatively higher emissions.



Clean Air Visibility Rule-
In 2005, the EPA issued the Clean Air Visibility Rule to address regional haze
in areas which include certain national park and wilderness areas through the
installation of BART for electric generating units.  BART eligible
units include those built between 1962 and 1977 that have the potential to emit
more than 250 tons of visibility-impairing pollution per year.  The
rule requires states to complete BART determinations and allows for a five-year
period to implement pollution controls.  The impact of the final BART
requirements of the Clean Air Visibility Rule on FPL's Turkey Point Fossil Units
Nos. 1 and 2 and on one of NextEra Energy Resources' units located in Maine
are not expected to be material to the financial statements of FPL Group or
FPL.



In 2007,
the FDEP began the process to expand the number of units covered under the
"Reasonable Further Progress" provision of the Clean Air Visibility Rule in an
effort to reduce emissions of SO2in areas
which include certain national park and wilderness areas.  The
provision requires that control measures be in place by 2017.  Eight
of FPL's generating facilities are affected under the Reasonable Further
Progress provision (Manatee Units Nos. 1 and 2, Port Everglades Units
Nos. 3 and 4, Turkey Point Fossil Units Nos. 1 and 2 and SJRPP Units
Nos. 1 and 2).  While the final requirements of the Reasonable Further
Progress provision are uncertain, it is possible that these units may be
required to switch fuels, install additional emission controls or make
adjustments to existing controls to meet the provision's emissions
requirements.








Clean Water Act Section
316(b)



Revisions to the National Ambient
Air Quality Standards for Ozone- In 2008, the EPA issued a final rule
establishing a new standard for ground-level ozone at 75 parts per billion
(ppb).  After reconsideration, in January 2010, the EPA issued a
proposed revision to the national ambient air quality standards for ground-level
ozone by revising the 2008 primary standard to a more restrictive primary
standard of between 60 ppb and 70 ppb.  It is anticipated that the EPA
will issue a final rule by August 2010 which will require states to (i) identify
areas which will be designated as non-attainment for ground-level ozone within
120 days of the final rule, (ii) develop plans to meet the attainment standard
by 2013 and (iii) begin meeting the attainment standard between 2014 and 2031
based on non-attainment severity.  Generating facilities located in
areas designated as non-attainment may be required to add additional pollution
control equipment.  A review of recent ozone monitoring data indicates
that some or all of FPL's generating facilities may be located in or affected by
non-attainment areas, or areas projected to be in non-attainment depending on
the primary standard adopted.








EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF FPL GROUP(a)



NameAgePositionEffective
      Date

Christopher
      A. Bennett51Executive
      Vice President & Chief Strategy, Policy & Business Process
      Improvement Officer of FPL GroupFebruary
      15, 2008(b)

Paul
      I. Cutler50Treasurer
      of FPL GroupTreasurer
      of FPLAssistant
      Secretary of FPL Group and FPLFebruary
      19, 2003February
      18, 2003December
      10, 1997

F.
      Mitchell Davidson47Chief
      Executive Officer of NextEra Energy ResourcesPresident
      of NextEra Energy ResourcesJuly
      29, 2008December
      15, 2006

K.
      Michael Davis63Controller
      and Chief Accounting Officer of FPL GroupVice
      President, Accounting and Chief Accounting Officer of FPLMay
      13, 1991July
      1, 1991

Moray
      P. Dewhurst54Vice
      Chairman and Chief of Staff of FPL GroupAugust
      17, 2009

Chris
      N. Froggatt52Vice
      President of FPL GroupOctober
      19, 2009

Lewis
      Hay, III54Chief
      Executive Officer of FPL GroupChairman
      of FPL Group and FPLJune
      11, 2001January
      1, 2002

Joseph
      T. Kelliher49Executive
      Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs of FPL GroupMay
      18, 2009

Robert
      L. McGrath56Executive
      Vice President, Engineering, Construction & Corporate Services of FPL
      Group and FPLFebruary
      21, 2005(b)

Manoochehr
      K. Nazar55Executive
      Vice President, Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of FPL
      GroupExecutive
      Vice President, Nuclear Division and Chief Nuclear Officer of
      FPLJanuary
      1, 2010January
      15, 2010

Armando
      J. Olivera60Chief
      Executive Officer of FPLPresident
      of FPLJuly
      17, 2008June
      24, 2003

Armando
      Pimentel, Jr.47Chief
      Financial Officer of FPL Group and FPLExecutive
      Vice President, Finance of FPL Group and FPLMay
      3, 2008February
      15, 2008(b)

James
      W. Poppell, Sr.59Executive
      Vice President, Human Resources of FPL Group and FPLAssistant
      Secretary of FPL Group and FPLDecember
      12, 2008January
      28, 2005

James
      L. Robo47President
      and Chief Operating Officer of FPL GroupDecember
      15, 2006

Antonio
      Rodriguez67Executive
      Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPL GroupExecutive
      Vice President, Power Generation Division of FPLJanuary
      1, 2007(b)July
      1, 1999(b)

Charles
      E. Sieving37Executive
      Vice President and General Counsel of FPL GroupExecutive
      Vice President and General Counsel of FPLDecember
      1, 2008January
      1, 2009

¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾¾

(a)

(b)FPL
      Group title changed from vice president to executive vice president
      effective May 23, 2008.  Where applicable, FPL title changed
      from senior vice president to executive vice president effective July 17,
      2008.








