ITEM 1.Business.

For
convenience, the terms “Discovery,” “DCI,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to refer to both Discovery Communications, Inc. and collectively to
Discovery Communications, Inc. and one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.

OVERVIEW

We are a global nonfiction media and entertainment company that provides programming across multiple distribution
platforms throughout the world. We also have a diversified portfolio of websites and other digital media services, develop and sell curriculum-based education products and services, and provide postproduction audio services. We were formed on
September 17, 2008. Additional information regarding our formation is set forth in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form
10-K. Information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is presented as though our formation was consummated on January 1, 2008. We are a Delaware corporation.

As one of the world’s largest nonfiction media companies, we provide original and purchased programming to more than 1.6 billion cumulative subscribers in the U.S. and over 180 other countries and
territories. We enable people to explore the world and satisfy their curiosity through more than 120 worldwide networks offering customized programming in over 40 languages and through our websites and other digital media services. Our global
portfolio of networks includes prominent television brands such as Discovery Channel, one of the first nonfiction networks and our most widely distributed global brand, TLC, Animal Planet, Science Channel and Investigation Discovery.

In the U.S., we own and operate three fully distributed networks that each reaches more than 97 million subscribers and six networks
that each reaches 34 million to 70 million subscribers. We also have interests in OWN: Oprah Winfrey Network (“OWN”) and The Hub, which are networks operated as 50-50 ventures that reached 75 million and 60 million
subscribers, respectively. Our objective is to invest in content for these networks to build viewership, optimize distribution revenue and capture advertising sales and to create or reposition additional branded channels and businesses that can
sustain long-term growth and occupy a desired programming niche with strong consumer appeal.

Outside of the U.S., we have one
of the largest international distribution platforms with two to thirteen channels in more than 180 countries and territories around the world. Internationally, we distribute a portfolio of television networks led by two networks each of which reach
more than 150 million cumulative subscribers. Our objective is to maintain a leadership position in nonfiction entertainment in international markets and build additional branded channels and businesses that can sustain long-term growth.

Our content spans genres including science, exploration, survival, natural history, sustainability of the environment,
technology, docu-series, anthropology, paleontology, history, space, archaeology, health and wellness, engineering, adventure, lifestyles and current events. A significant portion of our programming tends to be culturally neutral and maintains its
relevance for an extended period of time. As a result, a significant amount of our content translates well across international borders and is made even more accessible through extensive use of dubbing and subtitles in local languages, as well as
the creation of local programming tailored to individual market preferences.

We have an extensive library of programming and
footage and ongoing content production that provide a source of content for creating new services and launching into new markets and onto new platforms. We own all or most rights to the majority of our programming and footage, which enables us to
exploit our library to launch new brands and services into new markets quickly without significant incremental spending. Our programming can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide topical versions of subject matter that can
be utilized around the world.

Substantially all of our programming is produced in high definition (“HD”) format. We
have HD simulcasts of six of our owned and operated U.S. networks (Discovery Channel, TLC, Animal Planet, Investigation Discovery, Science Channel, and Planet Green) and two networks operated by ventures (OWN and The Hub), in addition to our
stand-alone U.S. HD Theater network. Additionally, we also continue to expand our international HD programming, which is now in approximately 100 countries and territories outside of the U.S., making us one of the leading international
providers of HD programming, based on the number of countries and territories we serve.

We classify our operations in three
segments: U.S. Networks, consisting principally of domestic cable and satellite television networks, websites and other digital media services; International Networks, consisting primarily of international cable and satellite







television networks and websites; and Education and Other, consisting principally of curriculum-based product and service offerings and postproduction audio services.

Effective January 1, 2010, we realigned our commerce business, which sells and licenses Discovery branded merchandise, from the
Commerce, Education, and Other reporting segment into the U.S. Networks reporting segment in order to better align the management of our online properties. In connection with this realignment we changed the name of our Commerce, Education, and Other
reporting segment to Education and Other. The information for periods prior to 2010 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been recast to reflect the realignment.

Financial information for our segments and geographical areas in which we do business is set forth in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition” and Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Subscriber statistics set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include both wholly-owned networks and networks operated by ventures.
Domestic subscriber statistics are based on Nielsen Media Research. International subscriber statistics are derived from internal data coupled with external sources when available. As used herein, a “subscriber” is a single household that
receives the applicable network from its cable television operator, direct-to-home (“DTH”) satellite operator, or other television provider, including those who receive our networks from pay-television providers without charge pursuant to
various pricing plans that include free periods and/or free carriage. The term “cumulative subscribers” refers to the collective sum of the total number of subscribers to each of our networks or programming services. By way of example, two
households that each receive five of our networks from their television provider represent two subscribers, but 10 cumulative subscribers.

U.S. NETWORKS

Our U.S.
Networks segment principally consists of national television networks. U.S. Networks generated net revenues of $2.4 billion during 2010, which represented 63% of our total consolidated net revenues. U.S. Networks generates revenues primarily from
fees charged to operators who distribute our networks, which primarily include cable and DTH satellite service providers, and from advertising sold on our television networks, websites and other digital media services. Our U.S. Networks segment also
generates revenues from affiliate and advertising sales representation services for third-party and venture networks and the licensing of our brands for consumer products. For 2010, distribution, advertising and other revenues were 44%, 52% and 4%,
respectively, of total net revenues for this segment.

Our U.S. Networks segment owns and operates nine national television
networks principally throughout the U.S., including prominent television brands such as Discovery Channel, TLC and Animal Planet. We also owned and operated the Discovery Health network through December 31, 2010. On January 1, 2011, we
contributed the Discovery Health network to OWN, which is a 50-50 venture between us and Harpo, Inc. (“Harpo”). Effective with the contribution, the network was rebranded as OWN and is no longer consolidated. U.S. Networks also owns an
interest in The Hub, a 50-50 venture between us and Hasbro, Inc. (“Hasbro”). On May 22, 2009, we sold a 50% interest in the U.S. Discovery Kids network to Hasbro and contributed our remaining 50% interest to a newly formed venture
(the “U.S. Discovery Kids Transaction”). Effective with this transaction we no longer consolidated the U.S. Discovery Kids network. The network continued to operate as the Discovery Kids network until October 10, 2010, at which time
it was rebranded as The Hub.

Our U.S. Networks segment owns and operates the following television networks.



Discovery Channel•  Discovery Channel reached approximately 100 million subscribers in the U.S. as of
December 31, 2010.•  Discovery Channel is dedicated to providing nonfiction content that informs and entertains
viewers about the wonder and diversity of the world. The network offers a mix of genres including science and technology, exploration, adventure, history and in-depth, behind-the-scenes glimpses at the people, places and organizations that
shape and share our world.•  Programming highlights on Discovery Channel includeDeadliest Catch, Mythbusters, Dirty
Jobs, Man Vs. Wild, Storm Chasers, Swamp LoggersandGold Rush: Alaska. Discovery Channel is also home to specials and mini-series such asLife.•  Target viewers are adults ages 25-54, particularly men.•  Discovery Channel is
simulcast in HD.







TLC• TLC reached approximately 99 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2010. TLC
also reached approximately 8 million subscribers in Canada, according to internal data.• TLC features docu-series and reality-based programming about the lives of real-life
characters.• Programming highlights on TLC includeCake Boss, Little Couple, What Not to Wear, Police Women,
Say Yes to the Dress, LA Inkand19 Kids and Counting.• Target viewers are adults ages 18-54, particularly women.• TLC is simulcast in HD.



Animal Planet• Animal Planet reached approximately 97 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2010.• Animal Planet
provides a full range of programming related to life in the animal kingdom and human interaction with animals.• Programming highlights on Animal Planet includeWhale Wars, River Monsters,I
Shouldn’t be Alive,Fatal Attractions,Pit Bulls and ParoleesandIt’s Me or the Dog.• Target viewers are adults ages 25-54.• Animal Planet is simulcast in
HD.



Investigation Discovery• Investigation Discovery reached approximately 70 million subscribers in the U.S. as of
December 31, 2010.• Investigation Discovery offers programming that focuses on the science of forensics and uses
dramatic, fact-based storytelling to provide in-depth analysis of investigations.• Programming highlights on Investigation Discovery includeOn the Case with Paula Zahn,Disappeared,I (Almost) Got Away With It,Who The (Bleep) Did I Marry?andExtreme Forensics.• Target viewers are adults ages 25-54.• Investigation Discovery is
simulcast in HD.



Science Channel• Science Channel reached approximately 67 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2010.• Science Channel
provides programming that explores the possibilities of science, from string theory and futuristic cities to accidental discoveries and outrageous inventions. The network celebrates the trials, errors and moments that change our human
experience.• Programming highlights on Science Channel includeThrough the Wormhole with Morgan Freeman,Wonders of the Solar System,How It’s Made,Head Rush,Sci Fi Science,How Do They Do It?,Build It BiggerandPunkin Chunkin.• Target viewers are adults ages
25-54.• Science
Channel is simulcast in HD.







Military Channel• Military Channel reached approximately 57 million subscribers in the U.S. as of
December 31, 2010. Military also reached approximately 1 million subscribers in Canada, according to internal data.• Military Channel brings viewers real-world stories of heroism, military strategy, technological
breakthroughs and turning points in history. The network takes viewers “behind the lines” to hear the personal stories of servicemen and women and offers in-depth explorations of military technology, battlefield strategy, aviation and
history.• Programming
highlights on Military Channel includeFuture Weapons, Showdown: Air Combat, Science of WarandTop Sniper.• Target viewers are men ages 35-64.



Planet Green• Planet Green reached approximately 56 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2010.• Planet Green
programming targets viewers who want to understand how humans impact the planet and how to live a more environmentally sustainable lifestyle.• Programming highlights on Planet Green includeThe Fabulous Beekman Boys,Operation
Wild,Living with Ed,Conviction Kitchen,Blood, Sweat and Takeaways, and theReel Impactweekly film series.• Target viewers are adults ages 18-54.• Planet Green is simulcast in
HD.



Discovery Fit & Health• Rebranded from FitTV as of February 1, 2011, Discovery Fit reached approximately 50 million
subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2010.• Discovery Fit & Health programming includes forensic mysteries, medical stories, emergency room trauma dramas, baby and pregnancy programming, parenting challenges, and stories of extreme
life conditions.• Programming includesDr. G: Medical Examiner,I’m Pregnant And…,The
Bronx,Untold Stories of the ER,Bodies in Motion with Gilad,Namaste Yoga, andShimmy.• Target viewers are adults ages 25-54.



HD Theater• HD Theater reached approximately 34 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31,
2010.• HD Theater was
one of the first nationwide 24-hours-a-day, seven-day-a-week high definition networks in the U.S. offering content in virtually all categories of entertainment from across Discovery’s family of networks. The network showcases programming about
adventure, nature, automotive, wildlife, history, travel, science and technology, world culture and more.• Programming highlights on HD Theater includeWorld Rally ChampionshipandMecum Auto
Auctions: Muscle Cars.• Target viewers are adults ages 25-54, particularly men.







Our U.S. Networks segment owns interests in the following television networks that are
operated as 50-50 ventures.



OWN•  OWN (formerly the Discovery Health network) debuted on January 1, 2011.•  Upon launch, this channel
reached approximately 75 million subscribers in the U.S.•  OWN is a multi-platform venture, including the OWN television network and Oprah.com, designed to entertain, inform and inspire people to live their best lives.•  Target viewers are adults
25-54, particularly women.•  OWN is simulcast in HD.



The Hub•  The Hub (formerly the Discovery Kids network) debuted on October 10, 2010.•  The Hub reached
approximately 60 million subscribers in the U.S. as of December 31, 2010.•  The Hub features original programming, game shows and live-action series and specials, including content drawn from Hasbro’s portfolio of entertainment and educational properties,
content from Discovery’s extensive library of award-winning children’s educational programming, and third-party acquisitions.•  Target viewers are children ages 2-11 and families.•  The Hub is simulcast in
HD.

In 2010, we formed 3net, which is a venture with Sony Corporation and IMAX Corporation to launch a
24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week, three-dimensional (“3-D”) network in the U.S., positioning us to capitalize on the recent success of 3-D feature films and accelerating sales of 3-D television sets. The venture partners will collaborate to
produce, acquire and distribute 3-D content for the network. We will provide network services, including affiliate sales and technical support, as well as 3-D television rights to our content and cross-promotion. Sony and IMAX will contribute movies
and other content, with Sony providing marketing and advertising and sponsorship sales support across the U.S., and IMAX contributing a suite of proprietary and patented image enhancement and 3-D technologies.

Our Digital Media business consists of our websites and mobile and video-on-demand (“VOD”) services. Our websites include
network branded websites such as Discovery.com, TLC.com and AnimalPlanet.com, and other websites such as HowStuffWorks.com, an online source of explanations of how the world actually works; Treehugger.com, a comprehensive source for
“green” news, solutions and product information; and Petfinder.com, a leading pet adoption destination. Together, these websites attracted an average of more than 22 million cumulative unique monthly visitors in 2010, according to
comScore, Inc.

Revenues generated by our Digital Media business are derived primarily from the sale of display, banner, rich
media and video advertising, sponsorships, and subscriber fees for access to our content.

INTERNATIONAL NETWORKS

Our International Networks segment principally consists of national and pan-regional television networks. International Networks generated
net revenues of $1.3 billion during 2010, which represented 33% of our total consolidated net revenues. This segment generates revenues primarily from fees charged to operators who distribute our networks, which primarily include cable and DTH
satellite service providers, and from advertising sold on our television networks and websites. Our International Networks segment also generates revenues from license and program access fees for our content. For 2010, distribution, advertising and
other revenues were 61%, 34% and 5%, respectively, of total net revenues for this segment.

At December 31, 2010,
International Networks operated over 130 unique distribution feeds in over 40 languages with channel feeds customized according to language needs and advertising sales opportunities. International Networks owns and operates a portfolio of television
networks, led by Discovery Channel and Animal Planet, which are distributed in virtually every pay-television market in the world through an infrastructure that includes operational centers in London, Singapore and Miami. In 2010, we began the
international rollout of TLC as a female-targeted global flagship, which was launched in over 30 countries and territories in Europe and Asia, with additional launches planned for 2011. In November 2010, we acquired the remaining 50% ownership
interest in substantially all of the international Animal Planet and Liv (formerly People + Arts) networks from venture partner BBC Worldwide for $152 million, giving us 100% ownership of these networks and greater flexibility to further refine
these brands to broaden their appeal and expand viewership. Previously, these networks were operated as 50-50 ventures between us and BBC Worldwide.







Subsequent to this transaction, we wholly own and operate most of our international television networks except for certain networks in Japan and Canada, which are operated by ventures with
strategically important local partners.

Through December 31, 2010, International Networks’ regional operations
reported into four regions: United Kingdom (“U.K.”); Europe (excluding the U.K.), Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”); Asia-Pacific; and Latin America. Effective January 1, 2011, International Networks reporting structure was
realigned into the following four regions: Western Europe, which includes the U.K. and western European countries; Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, (“CEEMEA”); Latin America; and Asia-Pacific.

International television markets vary in their stages of development. Some, such as Western Europe, are more advanced digital
multi-channel television markets, while others remain in the analog environment with varying degrees of investment from operators in expanding channel capacity or converting to digital. In developing pay television markets, we expect advertising
revenue growth will result primarily from subscriber growth, our localization strategy and the shift of advertising spending from broadcast to pay television. In relatively mature markets, such as Western Europe, the growth dynamic is changing.
Increased market penetration and distribution are unlikely to drive rapid growth in those markets. Instead, growth in advertising sales will come from increasing viewership and advertising pricing on our existing pay television networks and
launching new services, either in pay television or free television environments.

Our International Networks segment owns and
operates the following television networks.



NetworkInternationalSubscribers(millions)Discovery Channel206Animal Planet154Discovery Science59TLC52Discovery Home & Health41Discovery Kids33Investigation Discovery14HD Services16

International
Networks also distributes specialized networks developed for individual regions and markets to 226 million cumulative subscribers, which include such networks as Real Time, Turbo and Discovery World; Discovery History, Shed and Quest in the
U.K.; Discovery Civilization and Liv in Latin America. In addition, International Networks distributes two Spanish-language networks in the U.S., Discovery en Español and Discovery Familia, which are distributed to 11 million cumulative
subscribers.

Our International Networks segment also includes network branded websites. Revenues generated by the branded
websites are derived from the sale of display, banner, rich media and video advertising and sponsorships.

On
September 1, 2010, we sold our Antenna Audio business for net cash proceeds of $24 million, which resulted in a $9 million gain, net of taxes. Antenna Audio provides audio, multimedia and mobile tours for museums, exhibitions, historic sites
and visitor attractions around the world.

EDUCATION AND OTHER

Our Education and Other segment primarily includes the sale of curriculum-based product and service offerings and postproduction audio services. Education and Other generated net revenues of $153 million
during 2010, which represented 4% of our total consolidated net revenues. This segment generates revenues from subscriptions charged to public and private K-12 schools for access to an online VOD service that includes a suite of curriculum-based
tools, student assessment and professional development services, publication of hardcopy curriculum-based content and postproduction audio services.

CONTENT DEVELOPMENT

Our content development strategy is designed to
increase viewership, maintain innovation and quality leadership, and provide value for our network distributors and advertising customers. Substantially all content is sourced from a wide range of third-party producers, which includes some of the
world’s leading nonfiction production companies with which we have developed long-standing







relationships, as well as independent producers. Our production arrangements fall into three categories: produced, coproduced and licensed. Substantially all produced content includes programming
which we engage third parties to develop and produce while we retain editorial control and own most or all of the rights in exchange for paying all development and production costs. Coproduced content refers to programs for which we collaborate with
third parties to finance, develop and distribute while we retain significant rights to exploit the programs. The rights retained by us are generally in proportion to the total project costs we pay or incur, which generally ranges from 35% to 75% of
the total project cost. Coproduced programs are typically high-cost projects for which neither we nor our co-producers wish to bear the entire cost or productions in which the producer has already taken on an international broadcast partner.
Licensed content is comprised of films or series that have been previously produced by third parties.

Our International
Networks segment maximizes the use of shared programming from our U.S. Networks segment. Much of our content tends to be culturally neutral and maintains its relevance for an extended period of time. As a result, a significant amount of our
programming translates well across international borders and is made even more accessible through extensive use of dubbing and subtitles in local languages. Our programming can be re-edited and updated in a cost-effective manner to provide topical
versions of subject matter that can be utilized around the world. We also provide local programming that is tailored to individual market preferences, which is typically produced through third-party production companies.

REVENUES

We generate
revenues principally from: (i) fees charged to operators who distribute our networks, which primarily include cable and DTH satellite service providers, (ii) advertising sold on our networks, websites and other digital media services, and
(iii) other transactions, including curriculum-based products and services, affiliate and advertising sales representation services for third-party networks, content licenses, postproduction audio services, and the licensing of our brands for
consumer products. No single customer represented more than 10% of our total consolidated revenues for 2010, 2009 or 2008.

Distribution

Advertising

Our advertising revenues consist of consumer advertising,
which is sold primarily on a national basis in the U.S. and on a pan-regional or local-language feed basis outside the U.S. Advertising contracts generally have terms of one year or less.

In the U.S., advertising revenues are a function of the size and demographics of the audience delivered, quantitative and qualitative
characteristics of the audience of each network, the perceived quality of the network and of the particular programming, the brand appeal of the network and ratings as determined by third-party research companies such as Nielsen Media Research, as
well as overall advertiser demand in the marketplace. We sell advertising time in both the upfront and scatter markets. In the upfront market, advertisers buy advertising time for the upcoming season, and by purchasing in advance, often receive
discounted rates. In the scatter market, advertisers buy advertising time close to the time when the commercials will be run, and often pay a premium. The mix between the upfront and scatter markets is based upon a number of factors such as pricing,
demand for advertising time and economic conditions.

Outside the U.S., advertising is sold based on a fixed rate for the spot
in certain markets and sold based on viewership in other markets. Advertisers buy advertising time closer to the time when the commercials will be run.

Revenues from advertising are subject to seasonality, market-based variations, and general economic conditions. Advertising revenue is typically highest in the second and fourth quarters. Revenues can
also fluctuate due to the popularity of particular programs







and viewership ratings. In some cases, advertising sales are subject to ratings guarantees that typically require us to provide additional advertising time if the guaranteed audience levels are
not achieved.

We also generate revenues from the sale of advertising on our online properties. We sell advertising on our
websites both on a stand-alone basis and as part of advertising packages with our television networks.

Other

Subscriptions to our curriculum-based streaming services are primarily sold at the beginning of each school year as school budgets are
appropriated and approved. Substantially all revenues derived from the subscription agreements are recognized ratably over the school year.

Revenues from postproduction audio services are recognized using the milestone method.

COMPETITION

Television
network programming is a highly competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. We experience competition in the development and acquisition of content, for the distribution of our programming, for the selling of commercial time on our networks, and
for viewers. Our networks compete with studios, television networks, and other forms of media such as DVDs and the internet for the acquisition of programming and creative talent such as writers, producers and directors. Our ability to produce and
acquire popular programming is an important competitive factor for the distribution of our networks, attracting viewers and the sale of commercial time. Our success in securing popular programming and creative talent depends on various factors such
as the number of competitors providing programming that targets the same genre and audience, the distribution of our networks, viewership, and the price, production, marketing and advertising support we provide.

Our networks compete with other television networks, including broadcast, cable and local, for the distribution of our programming and
fees charged to cable television operators, DTH satellite service providers and other distributors that carry our network programming. Our ability to secure distribution agreements is necessary to ensure the effective distribution of network
programming to our audiences. Our contractual agreements with distributors are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Growth in the number of networks distributed, consolidation and other market conditions in
the cable and satellite distribution industry, and other platforms may adversely affect our ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of our programming that is as favorable as those currently in place. The ability to
secure distribution agreements is dependent upon the production, acquisition and packaging of original programming, viewership, the marketing and advertising support and incentives provided to distributors, and the prices charged for carriage.

Our networks and websites compete for the sale of advertising with other television networks, including broadcast, cable and
local, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media. Our success in selling advertising is a function of the size and demographics of our viewers, quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the audience of each network, the
perceived quality of the network and of the particular programming, the brand appeal of the network and ratings as determined by third-party research companies, prices charged for advertising and overall advertiser demand in the marketplace.

Our networks and websites also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to
viewers, including broadcast, cable and local networks, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, DVDs, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment.

Our education business also operates in highly competitive industries, which competes with other providers of curriculum-based products
to schools, including providers with long-standing relationships, such as Scholastic. Our postproduction audio services business competes with other production and in-house sound companies.







INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Our intellectual property assets principally include copyrights in television programming, websites and other content, trademarks in brands, names and logos, domain names and licenses of intellectual
property rights of various kinds.

We are fundamentally a content company and the protection of our brands and content are of
primary importance. To protect our intellectual property assets, we rely upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, trade secret and Internet/domain name statutes and laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no
assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Policing unauthorized use of our products
and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not always prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of our intellectual property. We seek to limit that threat through a combination of
approaches.

Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our intellectual property from time to time, and such
challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our operations. In
addition, piracy, which encompasses both the theft of our signal and unauthorized use of our programming, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property.

REGULATORY MATTERS

Our businesses are subject to and affected by regulations of U.S. federal, state and local government authorities, and our international operations are subject to laws and regulations of local
countries and international bodies such as the European Union. Programming networks, such as those owned by us, are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) in certain respects if they are affiliated with a cable
television operator. Other FCC regulations, although imposed on cable television operators and satellite operators, affect programming networks indirectly. The rules, regulations, policies and procedures affecting our businesses are constantly
subject to change. These descriptions are summary in nature and do not purport to describe all present and proposed laws and regulations affecting our businesses.

Program Access

The FCC’s program access rules prevent a satellite
cable programming vendor in which a cable operator has an “attributable” ownership interest under FCC rules, such as those owned by us, from entering into exclusive contracts for programming with a cable operator and from discriminating
among competing multichannel video programming distributors (“MVPDs”) in the price, terms and conditions for the sale or delivery of programming. These rules also permit MVPDs to initiate complaints to the FCC against program suppliers if
an MVPD claims it is unable to obtain rights to programming on nondiscriminatory terms.

“Must-Carry”/Retransmission Consent

The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the “Act”) imposed “must-carry”
regulations on cable systems, requiring them to carry the signals of most local broadcast television stations in their market. Direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) systems are also subject to their own must-carry rules. The FCC’s
implementation of “must-carry” obligations requires cable operators and DBS providers to give broadcasters preferential access to channel space. This reduces the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our networks by
cable operators and DBS providers. The Act also established retransmission consent, which refers to a broadcaster’s right to require consent from MVPDs before distributing its signal to their subscribers. Broadcasters have traditionally used
the resulting leverage from demand for their must-have broadcast programming to obtain carriage for their affiliated cable networks. Increasingly, broadcasters are additionally seeking substantial monetary compensation for granting carriage rights
for their must-have broadcast programming. Such increased financial demands on distributors reduce the programming funds available for independent programmers not affiliated with broadcasters, such as us.

Closed Captioning and Advertising Restrictions on Children’s Programming

Certain of our networks must provide closed-captioning of programming for the hearing impaired, and our programming and websites intended
primarily for children 12 years of age and under must comply with certain limits on advertising.







Regulation of the Internet

We operate several websites which we use to distribute information about and supplement our programs and to offer consumers the opportunity to purchase consumer products and services. Internet services
are now subject to regulation in the U.S. relating to the privacy and security of personally identifiable user information and acquisition of personal information from children under 13, including the federal Child Online Protection Act and the
federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act. In addition, a majority of states have enacted laws that impose data security and security breach obligations. Additional federal and state laws and regulations may be
adopted with respect to the Internet or other online services, covering such issues as user privacy, child safety, data security, advertising, pricing, content, copyrights and trademarks, access by persons with disabilities, distribution, taxation
and characteristics and quality of products and services. In addition, to the extent we offer products and services to online consumers outside the U.S., the laws and regulations of foreign jurisdictions, including, without limitation, consumer
protection, privacy, advertising, data retention, intellectual property, and content limitations, may impose additional compliance obligations on us.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 4,200
employees, including full-time and part-time employees of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and consolidated ventures. There were approximately 250 personnel at our postproduction audio services business subject to collective bargaining agreements.
There are no active grievances, strikes or work stoppages and we believe our relations with our union and non-union employees are strong. We do not believe a dispute with employees subject to collective bargaining agreements would have a material
adverse effect on our business.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

All of our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K, and all amendments to such filings
are available free of charge at the investor relations section of our website, www.discoverycommunications.com, as soon as reasonably practical after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our annual report, corporate governance
guidelines, code of business conduct and ethics, audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, and nominating and corporate governance committee charter are also available on our website. In addition, we will provide a printed copy of any
of these documents, free of charge, upon written request at: Investor Relations, Discovery Communications, Inc., 850 Third Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10022-7225. The information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form
10-K and is not incorporated by reference herein.



