Item 1:Business

Incorporated in 1967, Applied, a Delaware corporation, provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar photovoltaic (PV) and related
industries. Applied’s customers include manufacturers of semiconductor wafers and chips, flat panel liquid crystal displays (LCDs), solar PV cells and modules, and other electronic devices. These customers may use what they manufacture in their
own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. The Company’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October.

Applied is the world’s largest semiconductor fabrication equipment supplier based on revenue, with the capability to provide global deployment and support services. Applied also is the leading
supplier of LCD fabrication equipment to the flat panel display industry, and the leading supplier of solar PV manufacturing systems to the solar industry, based on revenue.

Applied operates in four reportable segments: Silicon Systems Group, Applied Global Services, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions. Applied manages its business based upon these segments. A
summary of financial information for each reportable segment is found in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A discussion of factors that could affect Applied’s operations is set forth under “Risk Factors” in
Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Silicon Systems Group Segment

Applied’s Silicon Systems Group segment develops, manufactures and sells a wide range of manufacturing equipment used to fabricate
semiconductor chips, also referred to as integrated circuits (ICs). Most chips are built on a silicon wafer base and include a variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other devices, that are connected by multiple layers of wiring
(interconnects). Applied offers systems that perform most of the primary processes used in chip fabrication, including atomic layer deposition (ALD), chemical vapor deposition (CVD), physical vapor deposition (PVD), electrochemical deposition (ECD),
rapid thermal processing (RTP), chemical mechanical planarization (CMP), wet cleaning, and wafer metrology and inspection, as well as systems that etch or inspect circuit patterns on masks used in the photolithography process. Applied’s
semiconductor manufacturing systems are used by integrated device manufacturers and foundries to build and package memory, logic and other types of chips.

While some device manufacturers are still using aluminum as the main conducting material for building interconnect structures, most have transitioned to copper. Copper has lower resistance than aluminum
and can carry more current in a smaller area. Applied is the leading supplier of systems for manufacturing copper-based chips, including equipment for depositing, etching and planarizing copper interconnect layers. Complementing







the transition to copper to improve chip speed is the use of low dielectric constant (low k) films to replace silicon dioxide material as the insulator between the copper wiring structures.
Applied also leads the industry in providing systems for depositing low k dielectric films.

The transistor is another key area
of the chip where semiconductor manufacturers are improving their device designs to enhance performance. Applied has the industry’s largest portfolio of technically advanced products for building smaller and faster transistors. One method of
enhancing chip performance is strain engineering, a technique that stretches or compresses the space between atoms, allowing electrical current to flow more quickly. Multiple strain films are typically used in advanced devices since they have an
additive effect on increasing transistor speed. Applied has a comprehensive portfolio of systems to enable these applications using CVD and epitaxial deposition technologies.

Major chipmakers are integrating new high dielectric constant (high-k) and metal materials and processes in their transistor gate structures to increase chip performance and reduce power consumption.
Applied has a comprehensive portfolio of fully characterized processes for building these high-k/metal gates. These solutions include an integrated dielectric gate stack tool that combines four critical processes in a single system, a portfolio of
metallization technologies using ALD and PVD, and an innovative high temperature etch system.

A new type of chip packaging is
also emerging, known as three-dimensional (3D) ICs, as new consumer products demand higher performance in a smaller space. Providing greater functionality in a smaller footprint, 3D-ICs stack multiple chips together and electrically connect
them using deep holes, called through-silicon via (TSV) structures. Applied has the industry’s most comprehensive line of production-proven systems and processes required for the majority of advanced packaging manufacturing steps, including
etch, CVD, PVD, ECD, wafer cleaning and CMP systems. To facilitate the adoption of packaging technology, Applied is working with consortiums and other equipment suppliers to lower customers’ implementation costs.

Some chip manufacturers have announced that they will be employing the new 3D manufacturing methods to enhance chip
performance. One method is based on new 3D transistor designs that replace the traditional two-dimensional gate with a thin 3D gate. This new structure, targeted for the 22nm technology node and below, improves the performance and energy efficiency
of the chip. In 2011, the Company introduced the Applied Centura Conforma™system, which uses conformal plasma
doping technology to modify the electrical properties of 3D and planar transistor structures.

Most of
Applied’s semiconductor equipment products are single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to a base platform. This enables each wafer to be processed separately in its own environment, allowing precise process control, while
the system’s multiple chambers enable simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing. Applied sells most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on five basic platforms: the Centura®, Endura®, Producer®, Raider®and Vantage®platforms. These
platforms support ALD, CVD, PVD, ECD, etch and RTP technologies.

Over time, the semiconductor industry has migrated to
increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant or common wafer size used today for volume production of advanced chips is 300 millimeter (mm), or 12-inch, wafers. Applied offers a comprehensive range of 300mm systems through its Silicon
Systems Group segment. Applied also offers earlier-generation 200mm systems, as well as products and services to support all of its systems, which are reported under its Applied Global Services segment.

The following summarizes Applied’s portfolio of products and their associated process technology areas reported under its Silicon
Systems Group segment.

Deposition

Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During deposition, layers of dielectric (an insulator), barrier, or electrically conductive (typically metal) films are deposited or grown on a
wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to perform four types of deposition: ALD, CVD, ECD and PVD. In addition, Applied’s RTP systems can be used to perform certain types of dielectric deposition.







Atomic Layer Deposition

ALD is an advanced technology in which atoms are deposited one layer at a time to build chip structures. This technology enables customers
to fabricate thin films of either conducting or insulating material with uniform coverage in nanometer-sized structures. One of the most critical areas of the transistor is its gate, which is built by depositing layers of dielectric films. At the
22nm node and below, these film layers are so thin that they must be atomically engineered. To meet this challenge, in 2011, Applied introduced its Applied Centura Integrated Gate Stack system with advanced ALD technology. The system builds
ultrathin high-k film layers less than 2nm in thickness — about one hundred thousandth the width of a human hair.

Chemical Vapor Deposition

CVD is used to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid
material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k dielectric (for highly efficient insulating materials), aluminum, titanium,
titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and technologies:

The Applied Producer CVD platform— This high-throughput platform features Twin-Chamber®modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer platform, giving it a simultaneous
processing capacity of six wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this platform. The highest productivity model of this system is the Applied Producer GT, which has achieved rapid customer acceptance due to its fast wafer handling
performance and compact design.

Low k Dielectric Films— Low k dielectric
materials are used in copper-based chip designs to further improve interconnect speed. Using conventional CVD equipment, the Applied Producer Black Diamond®family of low k systems provides customers with a proven, cost-effective way to integrate a variety of low k films into advanced interconnect structures. In 2011, the
Company introduced its third-generation low k technologies, the Applied Producer Black Diamond 3 system and Applied Producer Nanocure 3 system. Together, these products are designed to enable smaller, higher performance and more power-efficient
devices at 22nm and below.

Lithography-Enabling Solutions— Applied
offers several technologies on the Producer system to help chipmakers extend their current 193nm lithography tools, including a line of Applied APF®(advanced patterning film) films and Applied
DARC®(dielectric anti-reflective coating) films. Together, they provide a film stack with the precise
dimensional control and compatibility needed to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale features without additional integration complexity.

Gap Fill Films— There are many steps during the chipmaking process in which very small and deep, or high aspect ratio (HAR), structures must be filled void-free with a dielectric film.
Many of these applications include the deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures, contacts and interconnects. In addition to its Applied Centura Ultima HDP-CVD®(high-density plasma CVD) and Applied Producer HARP™(high aspect ratio process) systems, the Company offers its breakthrough Applied Producer Eterna™FCVD system. Targeted for 20nm and below chips, the Eterna system delivers a liquid-like film that flows freely into virtually any structure to provide void-free
dielectric fill.

Strain Engineering Solutions— The Applied Producer HARP system also plays a
key role in enhancing transistor performance, enabling chipmakers to boost chip speed by depositing strain-inducing dielectric films. Offering the industry’s first integrated stress nitride deposition and ultraviolet (UV) cure solution, the
Applied Producer Celera CVD delivers benchmark levels of high-stress tensile silicon nitride films. The Company also offers the Applied Centura SiNgenPlus low pressure CVD system for low temperature silicon nitride films. Used together, and in
conjunction with silicon germanium (SiGe) films using Applied’s epitaxial deposition technologies, these systems can provide additive strain engineering benefits.







Through-Silicon Via Films— The Company has
a comprehensive portfolio of products for TSV fabrication, including the Applied Producer InVia™system. This
product uses a unique process to deposit the critical oxide liner film layer in HAR TSV structures, enabling robust electrical isolation of the TSV, which is vital for reliable device performance. For applications where higher temperatures can
damage the manufacturing process, the Applied Producer Avila™CVD system allows high quality dielectric film
deposition at stable substrate temperatures at a low cost of ownership.

Epitaxial
Deposition— Epitaxial silicon (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an increasing number of
integrated circuit devices in both the wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed. The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre- and post-epi processes on the same system to improve film quality and reduce production costs.
This system is also used for SiGe epi technology, which reduces power usage and increases speed in certain types of advanced chips. For emerging transistor designs, the Applied Centura RP Epi system offers selective epi processes to enable faster
transistor switching through strain engineering techniques.

Polysilicon
Deposition— Polysilicon is a type of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure within the integrated circuit device. The Applied Centura Polygen™LPCVD system is a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures to create transistor gate structures. To address the
challenging requirements of shrinking gate dimensions, the Applied Centura DPN Gate Stack system integrates chambers for decoupled plasma nitridation (DPN), RTP anneal and polysilicon deposition on one platform to enable superior film quality and
material properties.

Tungsten Deposition— Tungsten is used in the
contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of aluminum wiring. Applied has two products for depositing tungsten:
the Applied Centura Sprint®Tungsten CVD system for 90nm and below devices and the Applied Centura iSprint
ALD/CVD system for more advanced applications. The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on the same platform.

Electrochemical Deposition

Electrochemical deposition is a process
by which metal atoms from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the surface of an immersed object. Its main application in the semiconductor industry is to deposit copper in interconnect wiring structures. This process step follows the
deposition of barrier and seed layers which prevent the copper from contaminating other areas of the device, improve the adhesion of the copper film and enable electrodeposition to occur. Applied offers two ECD systems: the Applied Raider GT ECD for
electroplating advanced chip interconnect structures, and the Applied Raider S ECD for advanced TSV packaging applications.

Physical Vapor Deposition

PVD is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated toward a metal target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer. The Applied Endura
PVD system offers a broad range of advanced metal deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys, cobalt, titanium/titanium nitride, tantalum/tantalum nitride, tungsten/tungsten nitride, nickel, vanadium and copper. In 2010, Applied
celebrated the 20thyear of its Applied Endura platform,
the most successful metal deposition system in the history of the semiconductor industry.

The Applied
Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system is widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips. Using PVD technology, the system deposits a tantalum-based barrier film that prevents copper material from entering other areas of the
device and then a copper seed layer that primes the structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk copper. The Applied Endura CuBS RFX PVD system extends cost-effective CuBS technology to the 22nm node. The Applied Endura Avenir™RF PVD system sequentially deposits the







multiple metal film layers that form the heart of the industry’s new, faster, metal gate transistors. The Applied Endura iLB PVD/ALD system advances the state-of-the-art in ALD technology,
enabling customers to shrink their speed-critical contact structures for 20nm and below devices.

Applied’s Endura system has also been used for many years in back-end applications to deposit metal layers before
final bump or wire bonding packaging steps are performed. The Applied Charger™UBM PVD system, which is
specifically designed for under-bump metallization (UBM) and other back-end processes, features linear architecture for reliable performance and very high productivity at a low cost per wafer.

Etch

Etching is used many times throughout the integrated circuit manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated with a
light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a wide range of systems for etching
dielectric, metal and silicon films to meet the requirements of advanced processing.

Applied’s
Producer Etch system utilizes the Twin-Chamber Producer platform to target cost-sensitive dielectric etch applications. To address advanced dielectric etch applications, the Applied Centura Enabler®E5 Etch system enables customers to create the 40:1 HAR contact features that are critical to the yield and performance of 32nm and below DRAM and Flash memory chips.
The Applied Centura Carina™system uses innovative, high-temperature technology to deliver the etch capability
essential for scaling logic and memory devices with high-k/metal gates at 45nm and below.

In 2011, the
Company introduced its Applied Centris AdvantEdge™Mesa™silicon etch, which features an unprecedented eight process chambers for high wafer output and proprietary system intelligence software to assure every process on
every chamber precisely matches. The system also saves on power, water and gas consumption, helping customers to lower operating costs and support their sustainable manufacturing initiatives. The Applied Centura Mariana™Trench Etch system provides customers with the capability to scale DRAM capacitors by enabling the etching of 80:1
aspect ratio structures. The Applied Centura Silvia™system is specifically designed for etching small, deep
holes for TSV applications in 3D-ICs. For etching metals, the Applied Opus™AdvantEdge Metal Etch uses an
optimized 5-chamber platform configuration that enables customers to extend aluminum interconnect technology and productivity for flash and DRAM memory applications.

Rapid Thermal Processing

RTP is a process in
which a wafer is subjected to rapid bursts of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. A rapid thermal process is used mainly for annealing, which modifies the properties
of deposited films. The Applied Centura Radiance®Plusand Applied Vantage RadOx™RTP systems feature advanced RTP technology with differing platform designs. While the multi-chamber Centura
platform offers exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined two-chamber Vantage platform is designed for dedicated high-volume manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films,
deposition steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no longer achieve with the necessary precision and control.

Applied’s latest RTP systems address the critical need for controlling wafer temperature to increase chip performance and yield. The laser-based Applied Vantage Astra™millisecond anneal system abruptly raises the surface temperature of the wafer locally to modify material
properties at the atomic level. In 2011, the Company introduced the Applied Vantage Vulcan system, the first RTP system to heat the wafer entirely from the backside. This system brings a new level of precision and control to the anneal process,
allowing chipmakers to produce more high performance devices per wafer.

Chemical Mechanical Planarization

The CMP process removes material from a wafer to create a flat (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent
photolithography patterning steps to occur with greater accuracy and enables film layers to build with







minimal height variations. Applied has led the industry with its 300mm Applied Reflexion®LK system, with features such as integrated cleaning, film measurement and process control capabilities. Applied’s latest CMP product, the Applied Reflexion GT
system, has an innovative dual-wafer design that increases performance while lowering system cost of ownership in fabricating copper interconnects and tungsten contacts.

Surface Preparation

Cleaning the surface of the wafer is critical
to the adhesion and quality of films that are subsequently deposited in the chip fabrication process. Applied offers several surface preparation systems. The Applied Raider SP can incorporate several types of cleaning methods, including spray,
vapor, immersion, megasonics and anneal technologies with automated single or dual-side wafer processing for high volume manufacturing.

Metrology and Wafer Inspection

Applied offers several products for
measuring features and inspecting defects on the wafer during various stages of the fabrication process. These systems enable customers to characterize and control critical dimension (CD) and defect issues, especially at advanced generation
technology nodes.

Critical Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)

Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to form images of microscopic features of a patterned wafer
at extremely high magnification. Applied’s SEM products provide customers with full automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring very small CDs. The Applied VeritySEM®4i metrology system uses proprietary SEM imaging technology to enable precise control of the lithography and etching
processes, measuring CDs at a precision of less than 0.3nm. Applied’s OPC Check™software for the
VeritySEM system performs automated qualification of OPC-based (optical proximity correction) chip designs, significantly reducing mask (see Mask Making section below) verification time over conventional manual methods.

DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as particles, scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect
detection system and then classify the defects to identify their source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied
SEMVision™Defect Analysis products enable customers to use this technology as an integral part of their
production lines to analyze defects as small as 30nm with industry-leading throughput.

Wafer Inspection

Using deep ultraviolet (DUV) laser-based technology, defects can be detected on patterned wafers (wafers with printed
circuit images) as they move between processing steps. Defects include particles, open circuit lines, and shorts between lines. The Applied UVision®4 wafer inspection system detects yield-limiting defects in the critical patterning layers of 22nm and below logic and memory devices. In 2011, the Company introduced
the Applied DFinder system, the first darkfield wafer inspection system to use DUV laser scanning to detect particles as small as 40nm in interconnect layers.

Mask Making

Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer
microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for etching and inspecting masks.

The Applied Centura Tetra™X Advanced Reticle Etch system is an advanced etch tool for fabricating leading-edge masks at 22nm and below. Applied’s Tetra line of systems has been used by
mask makers worldwide to etch the majority of high-end masks over the last five years. The Company also addresses the challenges of detecting defects on 22nm masks with its Applied Aera3™Mask inspection system. Using sophisticated aerial imaging technology, the Aera3 allows users to immediately see how the pattern on the mask will appear on the







wafer, revealing only the defects most likely to print and significantly reducing inspection time. These systems also address the challenge of fabricating emerging extreme ultraviolet (EUV)
lithography masks.

Ion Implantation

With the acquisition of Varian Semiconductor Associates, Inc. (Varian) in November 2011, Applied began to design, market, manufacture and service ion implantation systems. These systems are primarily used
in the manufacture of transistors, which are a basic building block of ICs or microchips. Ion implantation systems create a beam of electrically charged particles called ions, which are implanted into transistor structures at precise locations and
depths, changing the electrical properties of the semiconductor device. These implantation systems may also be used in other areas of IC manufacture for modifying the material properties of the semiconductor devices, as well as in manufacturing
crystalline-silicon solar cells and light-emitting diodes (LEDs).

Applied Global Services Segment

The Applied Global Services segment encompasses products and services designed to improve the performance and productivity, and reduce the
environmental impact, of the fab operations of semiconductor, LCD and solar PV manufacturers. The in-depth expertise and best known methods of Applied’s extensive global support infrastructure enable Applied to continuously support
customers’ production requirements. Trained customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually located at or near customers’ fab sites and service over 37,000 installed
Applied systems, as well as non-Applied systems. Applied offers the following general types of services and products:

Fab
and Equipment Services— Applied offers a portfolio of fab-wide operations services to maintain and optimize customers’ fabrication facilities. Applied Performance Services offers customers comprehensive equipment support with
performance-based pricing and predictable costs to enable improved cost of ownership. Included in this program is Applied’s ExpertConnect remote diagnostic capability, providing expert support around the clock.

Applied also offers its Total Parts Management program with spare parts manufactured to Applied’s strict technical specifications and
quality standards.

In addition to advanced 300mm fabs, Applied offers a wide range of products and services to extend the
productive life of 200mm semiconductor fabs, including new and remanufactured 200mm equipment, system enhancements and fab transition services. Designed to maximize productivity and lower cost of ownership, these products also assist customers in
implementing green manufacturing solutions. Applied’s 200mm systems are available in a broad range of production-proven technologies, including CVD, PVD, etch, implant, RTP, CMP, epitaxy, metrology and inspection tools.

Automation Systems— Applied offers automated factory-level and tool-level control software systems
for semiconductor, LCD and solar PV manufacturing facilities. These enterprise solutions include manufacturing execution systems (MES) to automate the production of wafers and LCD and solar substrates, advanced process control systems, and
scheduling and materials handling control systems. The Applied SmartFactory™MES software is a factory
automation solution designed to help accelerate the production ramp of emerging technologies for solar PV, chip-packaging, and LED applications.

Applied also offers computerized maintenance management systems, performance tracking and modeling and simulation tools for improving asset utilization. Applied’s E3™equipment engineering system solution, for example, integrates all critical equipment automation and process
control components. The Applied SmartSched™system is the semiconductor industry’s first predictive
scheduling solution for optimizing the movement of wafers during the lithography process to reduce cycle time and increase tool utilization.

Thin Film Solar —As a result of Applied’s restructuring of its Energy and Environmental Solutions segment in fiscal 2010, the Company discontinued sales to new customers of its
fully-integrated SunFab™thin film solar production lines, but continues to support existing SunFab customers
with services, upgrades and capacity







increases through the Applied Global Services segment. Thin film solar technologies are well-suited for large-scale applications, such as utility scale solar farms and commercial rooftops, where
space is not a constraint.

Display Segment

Applied’s products for manufacturing thin film transistor liquid crystal displays (TFT- LCDs) for televisions, personal computers (PCs), tablet PCs, smartphones and other consumer-oriented electronic
applications are reported under its Display segment. While similarities exist between the technologies utilized in chipmaking and LCD fabrication, the most significant differences are in the size and composition of the substrate. Substrates used to
manufacture LCD panels can be more than 120 times larger in area than 300mm wafers and are made of glass, while wafers are made of silicon.

Applied supplies a wide range of systems that process and test different glass substrate sizes. To meet consumer demand for larger, more cost-effective LCD TVs, Applied’s latest generation (Gen) 10
systems can process substrates sized at approximately 2.85 x 3.05 meters, with each substrate enabling the production of up to six 65-inch LCD TV screens. Applied is also extending its core LCD equipment technology into new mobility display segments
that require smaller, high-performance LCD or organic LED (OLED) screens and touch capability.

For
fabricating the transistor layer of these panels, Applied offers a line of plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) systems that use multi-chamber platform architecture to deposit dielectric and semiconducting films. In 2011, the Company introduced the Applied
AKT-20K PX PECVD system for manufacturing high-performance LCD and OLED displays for advanced smartphones and tablet PC products. The system deposits highly-uniform low-temperature polysilicon (LTPS) films on 1.95m2glass sheets that are three times larger than the previous standard
size, enabling larger, higher resolution screen sizes compared to previous-generation mobile products.

The
AKT-PiVot™55KV system employs high-productivity, cost-efficient PVD technology to deposit metal and
transparent conductive oxide films on the substrate. For manufacturing the color filter of LCD panels, Applied offers the AKT-NEW ARISTO™for transparent conductive oxide film deposition. Providing customers with new levels of productivity and flexibility, the Company introduced in 2011 the Applied
AKT-AristoTwin system for manufacturing touch-enabled displays. The system features two independent processing tracks on a single system, enabling customers to achieve 50% more capacity using half the manufacturing space.

To complement these systems, Applied also offers a line of electron beam test (EBT) systems for testing substrates during production for
defective pixels and other imperfections, including the Gen-10 AKT-90K EBT product. Featuring one of the industry’s fastest and most accurate pixel test technologies with the lowest operating cost, the EBT systems’ non-contact test
technology enables the safe testing of high-value LCD TV panels without damaging or scratching the display.

Energy and Environmental
Solutions Segment

The Energy and Environmental Solutions segment includes manufacturing systems to produce products for
the generation and conservation of energy. To increase the conversion efficiency and yields of solar PV devices and help reduce the cost per watt of solar-generated electricity, Applied offers manufacturing solutions for wafer-based crystalline
silicon (c-Si) applications.

Applied’s portfolio of solar PV wafer and cell fabrication technologies has made it the
leading supplier of c-Si equipment worldwide in terms of revenue. In addition to innovative technology, these systems offer key manufacturing benefits to customers in high productivity, advanced ultra-thin wafer handling, and extensive automation.

Wafer manufacturing —Applied’s precision wafering systems crop and square silicon ingots into bricks and
slice silicon bricks into thin wafers with high productivity and minimal silicon loss. These wafers are subsequently processed by cell manufacturing systems to create the PV cells used in making c-Si solar panels. The







Applied HCT wire saw cropper and squarer systems cut silicon ingots into bricks with high productivity and minimal silicon loss. The Applied HCT B5 wire saw, a leading wafer slicing system, was
designed for large load capacity in volume manufacturing and has a unique four-position architecture that provides the load flexibility for optimizing yield and productivity.

Cell manufacturing —Applied offers a comprehensive line of automated metallization and test systems for
c-Si cell manufacturing with its Applied Baccini products. These systems include high-precision printing capability for increasing the efficiency of c-Si solar cells. In 2011, the Company introduced the Applied Baccini Pegaso™platform for next-generation solar cell manufacturing. In addition to increased yield and output, a key feature of
the Pegaso system is its proprietary “smart” capabilities which bring a new level of precision and control to the cell manufacturing process. The system’s modular architecture allows customers to rapidly add modules for additional
processing capability, reducing the time, cost and risk of implementing new cell designs.

Other products
offered under the Energy and Environmental Solutions segment include roll-to-roll, vacuum web coating systems for high-performance deposition of a range of films on flexible substrates for functional, aesthetic or optical properties. The Applied
TopMet™4450, is the world’s largest and fastest roll-to-roll machine for depositing ultra-thin aluminum
films for flexible packaging applications. The Applied SmartWeb™system uses PVD technology to deposit critical
multi-layer films required for fabricating advanced touch panels in mobile devices and other flexible electronic substrates. The system’s modular design allows up to 12 different thin film layers to be deposited simultaneously on flexible
material, enabling complex structures to be created in a single pass.

Backlog

Applied manufactures systems to meet demand represented by order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog consists of: (1) orders
for which written authorizations have been accepted and assigned shipment dates are within the next 12 months, or shipment has occurred but revenue has not been recognized; (2) contractual service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned
within the next 12 months; and (3) orders for SunFab lines that are anticipated to be recognized as revenue within the next 12 months. Applied’s backlog at any particular time is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any
future periods, due to the potential for customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders.

Applied’s
backlog decreased from $3.2 billion at October 31, 2010 to $2.4 billion at October 30, 2011. Applied’s backlog on any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Customers may
delay delivery of products or cancel orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Delays in delivery schedules and/or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s
business and results of operations.

Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies

Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembly, test and integration of various proprietary and commercial parts,
components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) that are used to manufacture systems. Applied has implemented a distributed manufacturing model under which manufacturing and supply chain activities are conducted in various countries, including
the United States, Europe, Israel, Singapore, Taiwan and other countries in Asia, and assembly of some systems is completed at customer sites. Applied uses numerous vendors, including contract manufacturers, to supply parts and assembly services for
the manufacture and support of its products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained from only a single
supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied seeks to reduce costs and to lower the risks of manufacturing and service interruptions by: (1) selecting and qualifying alternate suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the financial
condition of key suppliers; (3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts; (4) qualifying new parts on a timely basis; and (5) locating certain manufacturing operations in close proximity to suppliers and customers.







Research, Development and Engineering

Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued development of new products. Applied’s significant investment in
research, development and engineering (RD&E) has generally enabled it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans at an
early stage in the technology selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems and processes that meet their planned technical and production requirements. Product development and engineering organizations are
located primarily in the United States, as well as in Europe, Israel, Taiwan and China. In addition, Applied outsources certain RD&E activities, some of which are performed outside the United States, primarily in India. Process support and
customer demonstration laboratories are located in the United States, China, Taiwan, Europe and Israel.

Applied’s
investments in RD&E for product development and engineering programs to create or improve products and technologies over the last three years were as follows: $1.1 billion (11 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2011, $1.1 billion
(12 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2010 and $934 million (19 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2009. Applied has spent an average of 13 percent of net sales in RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for
specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs for automation control systems, materials research and environmental control that are applicable to its products.

In fiscal 2011, Applied developed logic and memory chip technologies to meet the requirements of manufacturing below the 22nm node. These
technologies include low k dielectrics and curing for interconnect structures and high-k dielectric materials and ALD processes for fabricating transistor gates. Applied also focused on processes to help customers build new 3D gate structures. In
addition, Applied continued to focus on optimizing the cost-effectiveness of TSV technologies to enable their widespread implementation. TSV is an emerging solution for interconnecting three dimensional chip stacks to provide better device
performance, lower power consumption and the integration of heterogeneous devices. Applied is also investing in other new product development areas such as 450mm wafer systems. In the Display sector, Applied developed deposition systems to enable
larger OLED, LCD and touch-enabled displays. In solar, Applied focused on screen printing technology to keep pace with cell manufacturers’ new higher-efficiency cell designs. A key development area was “smart” capability, which bring
a new level of precision and control to the production process. RD&E also continued the development of products that enable lower-cost production of solar energy, production of LED devices for display backlighting and general lighting, and other
products to enable energy conservation.

In fiscal 2010, Applied developed new technology to enable next-generation 22nm and
below chip designs. These systems were designed to help customers continue their drive to pack more transistors in the same space using high-k/metal gate technologies and double patterning processes. Applied also developed technology for TSVs. In
the solar PV area, Applied continued the development of its precision wafering and cell manufacturing products for lowering the cost of producing solar-generated electricity through advanced crystalline silicon technology. RD&E also included
activities to develop products that enable lower-cost production of solar energy, production of LED devices for display backlighting and general lighting, and other products to enable energy conservation.

In fiscal 2009, Applied focused on developing systems for semiconductor customers’ new chip designs with 32nm and below geometries,
including systems to enable faster transistors using strain engineering and high-k/metal gate technologies, as well as double patterning processes that enable customers to extend their existing 193nm lithography tools through additional technology
generations. Applied also focused on developing technology for manufacturing next-generation displays. RD&E also included activities to develop products that enable lower-cost production of solar energy and other products to enable energy
conservation.







Marketing and Sales

Net sales by geographic region, which are attributed according to the location of customers’ facilities, were as follows:



201120102009($)(%)($)(%)($)(%)(In millions, except percentages)China2,574241,5571663513Taiwan2,093202,750291,02621Korea1,263121,7681966413Japan9129768871814Southeast Asia592557862525Asia Pacific7,434707,421783,29566North America(*)1,963191,1471296619Europe1,120119811075315Total10,5171009,5491005,014100





(*)Primarily the United States.

Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells products worldwide almost entirely through a direct
sales force. Approximately 81 percent of Applied’s fiscal 2011 net sales were to regions outside of the United States.

General economic conditions impact Applied’s business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which products are sold experience weak economic conditions that may negatively impact
sales. Applied’s business is usually not seasonal in nature, but it is highly cyclical, based on capital equipment investment by major semiconductor, flat panel display, solar PV and other manufacturers. Customers’ expenditures depend on
many factors, including: anticipated market demand and pricing for semiconductors, LCDs, solar cells and modules, and other substrates; the development of new technologies; customers’ factory utilization; capital resources and financing;
government policies and incentives; and global and regional economic conditions.

Information on net sales to unaffiliated
customers and long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic regions is included in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following companies accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales in
2011, 2010, and/or 2009, which were for products in multiple reportable segments.



201120102009Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.12%14%10%Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited10%11%*Intel Corporation10%*12%





*Less than 10%.

Competition

The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Applied’s ability to
compete generally depends on its ability to timely commercialize its technology, continually improve its products and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors include technical
capability and differentiation, productivity and cost-effectiveness. The importance of these factors varies according to customers’ needs, including product mix and respective product requirements, applications, and the timing and circumstances
of purchasing decisions. Substantial competition exists in all areas of Applied’s business. Competitors range from small companies that compete with a single product and/or in a single region, to global, diversified companies with a range of







products. Applied’s ability to compete requires a high level of investment in RD&E, marketing and sales and global customer support activities. Management believes that many of
Applied’s products have strong competitive positions.

The competitive environment for each segment is described below:

Products and services within the Applied Global Services segment complement the Silicon Systems Group, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions segments’ products, in markets that are
characterized by demanding worldwide service requirements and a diverse group of numerous competitors. To compete effectively, Applied offers products and services to reduce costs, improve tool performance, and increase the productivity and energy
efficiency of customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level of technical service and support. The importance of these factors varies according to customers’ needs and the
type of products or services offered. Customers with more significant operations and/or expertise may require fewer service products than customers who place greater reliance on an outsourcing model. Industry conditions that affected Applied Global
Services’ sales of spares and services in fiscal 2011 were principally manufacturing capacity and utilization rates of fabs.

Products in the Display segment are generally subject to strong competition from a number of major competitors. Applied holds established market positions with its technically-differentiated TFT-LCD
manufacturing solutions for PECVD, color filter PVD, PVD array, PVD touch panel, and TFT array testing, although its market position could change quickly due to customers’ evolving requirements. The competitive environment for Applied’s
Display segment in fiscal 2011 was characterized by increased demand and capacity requirements for mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets PCs, which drove demand for high-performance displays and touch screen devices. LCD TV demand and
capacity also grew, but not as rapidly as in recent years. Important factors affecting the competitive position of Applied’s Display products include (i) industry trends, Applied’s ability to innovate and develop new products, and the
extent to which Applied’s products are technically-differentiated, (ii) which customers within a highly concentrated customer base are making capital equipment investments, and (iii) Applied’s existing position at these
customers.

Applied’s products within the Energy and Environmental Solutions segment compete in several diverse market
areas, including primarily the c-Si solar equipment market. All of these markets are characterized by extreme pressure to reduce customers’ overall production costs and improve performance. With respect to its c-Si equipment products, Applied
competes with a number of other companies, some of which have significant experience with solar applications and some of which are new entrants to the solar equipment business.







Patents and Licenses

Management believes that Applied’s competitive position significantly depends upon the Company’s research, development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities, and not just on its
patent position. However, protection of Applied’s technological assets through enforcement of its intellectual property rights, including patents, is important. Therefore, Applied’s practice is to file patent applications in the United
States and other countries for inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a substantial number of patents in the United States and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new inventions. Although Applied does not
consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a whole, are a significant element of Applied’s business. In addition to patents, Applied also
possesses other intellectual property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and copyrights.

Applied enters into
patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when management determines that it is in Applied’s best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products,
of certain patented technologies that are licensed to Applied. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from or paid to third parties have not been, and are not expected to be, material to
Applied’s consolidated results of operations.

In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives and makes
inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In responding to such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be
available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s
business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Environmental Matters

Applied maintains a number of environmental, health and safety programs that are primarily preventive in nature. As part of these
programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, Applied has trained personnel to conduct investigations of any environmental, health or safety incidents, including, without limitation,
spills, releases or possible contamination.

Compliance with federal, state and local environmental, health and safety
provisions, including, without limitation, those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, remedial agreements and other actions relating to the environment have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on
Applied’s capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.

The most recent
report on Applied’s environmental, health and safety activities can be found in the Company’s latest Citizenship Report on its website at http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/cr/sustainability. The Citizenship Report is updated
periodically. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, Applied’s website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein.

Employees

At
October 30, 2011, Applied employed approximately 13,000 regular employees and 900 temporary employees. In the high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly
dependent upon its continued ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract, hire, assimilate, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees.







Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table and notes set forth information about Applied’s executive officers as of October 30, 2011:



Name of IndividualPositionMichael R. Splinter(1)Chairman of Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive OfficerGeorge S. Davis(2)Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerMark R. Pinto(3)Executive Vice President, General Manager Energy and Environmental SolutionsRandhir Thakur(4)Executive Vice President, General Manager Silicon SystemsJoseph Flanagan(5)Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Supply ChainMary Humiston(6)Senior Vice President, Global Human ResourcesManfred Kerschbaum(7)Senior Vice President, Chief of StaffJoseph J. Sweeney(8)Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryChris Bowers(9)Group Vice President, Corporate InitiativesThomas T. Edman(10)Group Vice President, General Manager Display Business GroupRon Kifer(11)Group Vice President, Chief Information OfficerCharlie Pappis(12)Group Vice President, General Manager Applied Global ServicesOmkaram Nalamasu(13)Corporate Vice President, Chief Technology OfficerThomas S. Timko(14)Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer





(1)Mr. Splinter, age 61, has been President and Chief Executive Officer of Applied since April 2003 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 2009.
Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Splinter was an executive at Intel Corporation (Intel), a manufacturer of chips and computer, networking and communications products, where Mr. Splinter held a number of positions in his 20 years at Intel,
including Executive Vice President and Director of Sales and Marketing and Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Technology and Manufacturing Group.



(2)Mr. Davis, age 54, was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in December 2009, after serving as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer, since December 2006, and appointed Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in November 2006. Previously, he had been Group Vice President, General Manager, Corporate Business Development since March 2005. From November 1999 to
February 2005, Mr. Davis served as Vice President and Corporate Treasurer, where he managed Applied’s worldwide treasury operations and was responsible for investments, tax, financial risk management, and trade and export matters.
Mr. Davis joined Applied in 1999.



(3)Dr. Pinto, age 52, has held the position of Executive Vice President, General Manager Energy and Environmental Solutions since January 2011. Dr. Pinto was
promoted to Executive Vice President in December 2009 and was previously Senior Vice President, General Manager, Energy and Environmental Solutions and Display as well as corporate Chief Technology Officer. Prior to joining Applied in January 2004,
Dr. Pinto spent 19 years with Bell Laboratories (Bell Labs), a communications research and development company, and the Lucent Microelectronics Group, which later became Agere Systems Inc., an IC components company, most recently as Vice
President of the Analog Products Division. Dr. Pinto holds a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University.



(4)Dr. Thakur, age 49, was promoted to Executive Vice President, General Manager Silicon Systems in December 2009, after serving as Senior Vice President,
General Manager Silicon Systems since October 2009. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, General Manager, Thin Film Solar and Display. He was appointed Senior Vice President, General Manager, Strategic Operations when he rejoined Applied in May
2008. He previously was with Applied from 2000 to 2005 in a variety of executive roles including Group Vice President, General Manager for Front End Products. From September 2005 to May 2008, Dr. Thakur served as Executive Vice President
of Technology and Fab Operations at SanDisk Corporation, a data storage solutions manufacturer, and as head of SanDisk’s worldwide operations. Prior to joining Applied in 2000, Dr. Thakur served in leadership roles at Steag Electronic
Systems AG, an electronics company, and Micron Technology, Inc., a semiconductor manufacturer.







(5)Mr. Flanagan, age 40, joined Applied as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Supply Chain in February 2010. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Flanagan
held executive positions in global operations for Nortel Networks Corporation, a telecommunications equipment manufacturer, since 2006, including President of Nortel Business Services from August 2009 to February 2010, and Senior Vice President of
Global Operations from August 2007 until August 2009. Previously, Mr. Flanagan held a number of positions from 1993 to 2006 at General Electric Company (GE), a global infrastructure, finance and media company.



(6)Ms. Humiston, age 46, was named Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources in July 2011. She was Corporate Vice President, Global Human Resources from July 2009
to June 2010 and then promoted to Group Vice President in July 2010. Prior to July 2009, she served as the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources for both the Energy and Environmental Solutions and Display groups. Prior to joining Applied,
Ms. Humiston was Vice President of Human Resources at Honeywell International Inc., which provides technologies to address safety, security and energy, from October 2002 to June 2008, with responsibility for various corporate and international
organizations. She previously held executive positions with PeoplePC, an internet service provider; Gap, Inc., an apparel retailer; and GE.



(7)Mr. Kerschbaum, age 57, was named Senior Vice President, Chief of Staff in September 2009. Prior to that he served as Senior Vice President, General Manager,
Applied Global Services from January 2005 to September 2009. Mr. Kerschbaum was Senior Vice President, Global Operations from July 2004 to January 2005 and from October 2002 to May 2003. From May 2003 to July 2004, he was Group Vice President,
Foundation Engineering and Operations. From January 1996 to October 2002, he held various positions in Applied Materials North America, most recently as Group Vice President, General Manager, Applied Materials North America. Mr. Kerschbaum
has served in various other operations, customer service and engineering positions since joining Applied in 1983.



(8)Mr. Sweeney, age 63, has held the position of Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Applied since July 2005, with responsibility
for global legal affairs, intellectual property and security. From April 2002 to July 2005, Mr. Sweeney was Group Vice President, Legal Affairs and Intellectual Property, and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Sweeney joined Applied in 1993.



(9)Mr. Bowers, age 51, has been Group Vice President, Corporate Initiatives since October 2009, working on enterprise wide transformation projects. From March
2008 to September 2009, he was Group Vice President and General Manager of Corporate Services and Chief of Staff, working closely with executives on effective business strategy execution. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Bowers was a partner at
the Hay Group, a global consulting firm, where he held various business leadership and consulting positions from 1992 to 2008. Most recently, he was Director of Client Services in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and a member of the Hay Group
Global R&D Council. Prior to the Hay Group, Mr. Bowers was a member of the U.K. Special Forces.



(10)Mr. Edman, age 49, was appointed Group Vice President and General Manager of the Display Business Group in February 2011. Previously, he served as Group Vice
President and General Manager of Corporate Business Development and Global Corporate Affairs and Marketing from June 2006 to June 2011. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Edman served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Applied Films
Corporation until the company was acquired by Applied in June 2006, and he held various executive positions at Marubeni Specialty Chemicals, Inc., a distributor of specialty chemicals. Mr. Edman also serves on the governing board of the
FlexTech Alliance and on the Board of Directors of TTM Technologies, Inc. as Chairman of its compensation committee.



(11)Mr. Kifer, age 60, joined Applied in May 2006 as Group Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Global Information Services. Prior to his appointment,
Mr. Kifer spent five years with DHL, a global logistics company, in various executive management roles, most recently as the Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer for North America, Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets.



(12)Mr. Pappis, age 50, has been Group Vice President and General Manager of Applied Global Services since September 2009. He previously held positions in Applied
Global Services as Corporate Vice President and General Manager for the Semiconductor Service Solutions group and as general manager for Equipment Productivity Services. He has held various other management positions since joining Applied in 1986.







(13)Dr. Nalamasu, age 53, was promoted to Corporate Vice President and Chief Technology Officer for Applied in January 2011. Upon joining Applied in June 2006 to
January 2011, Dr. Nalamasu was Corporate Vice President and Deputy Chief Technology Officer and served as General Manager for Applied’s Advanced Technologies Group Dr. Nalamasu was Vice President of Research and a NYSTAR Distinguished
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute from 2002 to 2006. Prior to that he held various R&D leadership positions at Bell Labs and later Lucent Technologies, Inc., a telecommunications company, for 17
years.



(14)Mr. Timko, age 43, joined Applied in March 2010 as Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. From June 2006 until March 2010,
Mr. Timko was with Delphi Automotive LLP, a supplier to the automotive, computing, communications, energy and consumer accessories markets, where he was most recently Chief Accounting Officer and Controller. He served as Assistant Controller
for The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a global provider of advertising and marketing services, from December 2004 to June 2006, and previously at Dover Corporation, a manufacturer of industrial products. Mr. Timko began his career in
1991 with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC, a provider of audit and assurance, tax and advisory services, and is a certified public accountant.

Available Information

Applied’s website ishttp://www.appliedmaterials.com.Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing
such reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, Applied’s website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated
by reference herein.



