Item 1:Business

Incorporated in 1967, Applied, a Delaware corporation, provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar photovoltaic (PV) and related industries. Applied’s customers include manufacturers of semiconductor wafers and chips, flat panel liquid crystal displays (LCDs), solar PV cells and modules, and other electronic devices. These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October.

Applied is one of the world’s largest semiconductor fabrication equipment suppliers based on revenue, with the capability to provide global deployment and support services. Applied also is a leading supplier of LCD fabrication equipment to the flat panel display industry, and a leading supplier of solar PV manufacturing systems to the solar industry, based on revenue.

Applied operates in four reportable segments: Silicon Systems Group, Applied Global Services, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions. Applied manages its business based upon these segments. A summary of financial information for each reportable segment is found in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A discussion of factors that could affect operations is set forth under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

In November 2011, Applied completed the acquisition of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian), the leading supplier of ion implantation equipment to the semiconductor and solar industries. The acquisition broadened Applied's extensive portfolio of technologies for chip and solar module manufacturing. The acquired business is included in  consolidated results of operations and the results of the Silicon Systems Group and Applied Global Services segments.

Net sales by reportable segment for the past three fiscal years were as follows:



201220112010(In millions, except percentages)Silicon Systems Group$5,53664%$5,41551%$5,30456%Applied Global Services2,28526%2,41323%1,86520%Display4735%6997%8999%Energy and Environmental Solutions4255%1,99019%1,48115%Total$8,719100%$10,517100%$9,549100%

Silicon Systems Group Segment

The Silicon Systems Group segment develops, manufactures and sells a wide range of manufacturing equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips, also referred to as integrated circuits (ICs). Most chips are built on a silicon wafer base and include a variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other devices, that are connected by multiple layers of wiring (interconnects). Applied offers systems that perform most of the primary processes used in chip fabrication, including atomic layer deposition (ALD), chemical vapor deposition (CVD), physical vapor deposition (PVD), electrochemical deposition (ECD), rapid thermal processing (RTP), ion implantation, chemical mechanical planarization (CMP), wet cleaning, and wafer metrology and inspection, as well as systems that etch or inspect circuit patterns on masks used in the photolithography process. Applied’s semiconductor manufacturing systems are used by integrated device manufacturers and foundries to build and package memory, logic and other types of chips.











Today's advanced interconnects are made using copper as the main wiring material. Copper has low resistance and can carry a large amount of current in a small area, which allows signals to travel quickly. Applied is the leading supplier of systems for manufacturing copper-based interconnects, including equipment for depositing, etching and planarizing these multi-layer structures. In 2012, the Company introduced the Applied Endura Amber™ PVD system, which uses innovative copper reflow technology to achieve rapid, void-free fill of interconnect structures at virtually any device node.

To increase the speed of interconnect signals even further, low dielectric constant (low k) films are used to insulate the copper wiring. Applied also leads the industry in providing systems for depositing low k dielectric films. In 2012, the Company launched the Applied Producer®Onyx™ process, an innovative film treatment that optimizes the molecular structure of low k films to enable higher device performance and longer battery life.

The transistor is another key area of the chip where semiconductor manufacturers are improving their device designs to enhance performance. Applied has the industry’s largest portfolio of technically advanced products for building smaller and faster transistors. One method of enhancing chip performance is strain engineering, a technique that stretches or compresses the space between atoms, allowing electrical current to flow more quickly. Multiple strain films are typically used in advanced devices since they have an additive effect on increasing transistor speed. Applied has a comprehensive portfolio of systems to enable these applications using CVD and epitaxial deposition technologies.

Major chipmakers are integrating new high dielectric constant (high-k) and metal materials and processes in their transistor gate structures to increase chip performance and reduce power consumption. Applied has a comprehensive portfolio of fully characterized processes for building these high-k/metal gates. These solutions include an integrated dielectric gate stack tool that combines four critical processes in a single system, a portfolio of metallization technologies using ALD and PVD, and an innovative high temperature etch system.

To address the need for higher performance in a smaller space driven by new consumer products, a new type of chip packaging is emerging, known as three-dimensional (3D) ICs. Providing greater functionality in a smaller footprint, 3D ICs stack multiple chips together and electrically connect them using deep holes, called through-silicon via (TSV) structures. Applied has the industry’s most comprehensive line of production-proven systems and processes required for the majority of advanced packaging manufacturing steps, including etch, CVD, PVD, ECD, wafer cleaning and CMP systems. In 2012, the Company introduced the Applied Producer Optiva™ CVD system, which employs ultra-low process temperatures to deposit conformal insulating liner films for TSVs. The Optiva system is also used to manufacture advanced image sensors used in smartphones, tablet PCs and high-end cameras, covering the microlens with a tough, thin, transparent film layer that boosts the low-light performance of the sensor while improving its durability.

Some chip manufacturers have announced that they will be employing new manufacturing methods to enhance chip performance, one of which is based on new transistor designs that replace the traditional two-dimensional gate with a thin 3D gate. This new structure, targeted for the 22nm technology node and below, improves the performance and energy efficiency of the chip. The Applied Centura Conforma™ system uses conformal plasma doping technology to modify the electrical properties of 3D and planar transistor structures. Chip manufacturers are also beginning to employ 3D architectures in advanced memory chips to provide higher-density storage capability. These structures require the precise etching of exceptionally deep and narrow structures. In 2012, the Company launched its Applied Centura® Avatar™ dielectric etch system that can etch holes and trenches with up to 80:1 depth-to-width aspect ratios.

Most of Applied’s semiconductor equipment products are single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to a base platform. This enables each wafer to be processed separately in its own environment, allowing precise process control, while the system’s multiple chambers enable simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing. Applied sells most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on six basic platforms: the Endura®,, Centura®, Producer®, Raider®, VIISta®and Vantage®platforms. These platforms support ALD, CVD, ECD, PVD, etch, ion implantation, and RTP technologies.

Over time, the semiconductor industry has migrated to increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant or common wafer size used today for volume production of advanced chips is 300 millimeter (mm), or 12-inch, wafers. Applied offers a comprehensive range of 300mm systems through its Silicon Systems Group segment. Applied also offers earlier-generation 200mm systems, as well as products and services to support all of its systems, which are reported under its Applied Global Services segment.









The following summarizes the portfolio of products and their associated process technology areas reported under the Silicon Systems Group segment.

Deposition

Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During deposition, layers of dielectric (an insulator), barrier, or electrically conductive (typically metal) films are deposited or grown on a wafer. Applied provides equipment to perform four types of deposition: ALD, CVD, ECD and PVD. In addition, Applied’s RTP systems can be used to perform certain types of dielectric deposition.



Atomic Layer Deposition

ALD is an advanced technology in which atoms are deposited one layer at a time to build chip structures. This technology enables customers to fabricate thin films of either conducting or insulating material with uniform coverage in nanometer-sized structures. One of the most critical areas of the transistor is its gate, which is built by depositing layers of dielectric films. At the 22nm node and below, these film layers are so thin that they must be atomically engineered. The Applied Centura Integrated Gate Stack system features advanced ALD technology that builds ultrathin high-k film layers less than 2nm in thickness — about one hundred thousandth the width of a human hair.

Chemical Vapor Deposition

CVD is used to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k dielectric (for highly-efficient insulating materials), aluminum, titanium, titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and technologies:

The Applied Producer CVD platform— This high-throughput platform features Twin-Chamber®modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer platform, giving it a simultaneous processing capacity of six wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this platform. The highest productivity model of this system is the Applied Producer GT, which features fast wafer handling performance and compact design.

Low k Dielectric Films— Low k dielectric materials are used in copper-based chip designs to further improve interconnect speed. Using conventional CVD equipment, the Applied Producer Black Diamond®family of low k systems provides customers with a proven, cost-effective way to integrate a variety of low k films into advanced interconnect structures. The Company's latest third-generation low k technologies are featured on the Applied Producer Black Diamond 3 system and Applied Producer Nanocure 3 system. Together, these products are designed to enable smaller, higher performance and more power-efficient devices at 22nm and below.

Lithography-Enabling Solutions— Applied offers several technologies on the Producer system to help chipmakers extend their current 193nm lithography tools, including a line of Applied APF®(advanced patterning film) films and Applied DARC®(dielectric anti-reflective coating) films. Together, they provide a film stack with the precise dimensional control and compatibility needed to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale features without additional integration complexity.

Gap Fill Films— There are many steps during the chipmaking process in which very small and deep, or high aspect ratio (HAR), structures must be filled void-free with a dielectric film. Many of these applications include the deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures, contacts, and interconnects. Applied's most advanced gap fill system is its  Applied Producer Eterna™ FCVD system. Targeted for 20nm and below chips, the Eterna system delivers a liquid-like film that flows freely into virtually any structure to provide void-free dielectric fill.

Strain Engineering Solutions— The Applied Producer HARP™ system plays a key role in enhancing transistor performance, enabling chipmakers to boost chip speed by depositing strain-inducing dielectric films. Offering the industry’s first integrated stress nitride deposition and ultraviolet (UV) cure solution, the Applied Producer Celera CVD delivers benchmark levels of high-stress tensile silicon nitride films. The Company also offers the Applied Centura SiNgenPlus low pressure CVD system for low temperature silicon nitride films. Used together, and in conjunction with silicon germanium (SiGe) films using Applied’s epitaxial deposition technologies, these systems can provide additive strain engineering benefits.











Through-Silicon Via Films— Applied has a comprehensive portfolio of products for TSV fabrication, including the Applied Producer InVia™ system. This product uses a unique process to deposit the critical oxide liner film layer in HAR TSV structures, enabling robust electrical isolation of the TSV, which is vital for reliable device performance. For applications where higher temperatures can damage the manufacturing process, the Applied Producer Avila™ CVD system and Applied Producer Optiva CVD system allow high quality dielectric film deposition at stable substrate temperatures at a low cost of ownership.

Epitaxial Deposition— Epitaxial silicon (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an increasing number of integrated circuit devices in both the wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed. The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre- and post-epi processes on the same system to improve film quality and reduce production costs. This system is also used for SiGe epi technology, which reduces power usage and increases speed in certain types of advanced chips. For emerging transistor designs, the Applied Centura RP Epi system offers selective epi processes to enable faster transistor switching through strain engineering techniques.

Polysilicon Deposition— Polysilicon is a type of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure within the integrated circuit device. The Applied Centura Polygen™ LPCVD system is a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures to create transistor gate structures. To address the challenging requirements of shrinking gate dimensions, the Applied Centura DPN Gate Stack system integrates chambers for decoupled plasma nitridation (DPN), RTP anneal, and polysilicon deposition on one platform to enable superior film quality and material properties.

Tungsten Deposition— Tungsten is used in the contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of aluminum wiring. Applied has two products for depositing tungsten: the Applied Centura Sprint®Tungsten CVD system for 90nm and below devices and the Applied Centura iSprint ALD/CVD system for more advanced applications. The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on the same platform.

Electrochemical Deposition

Electrochemical deposition is a process by which metal atoms from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the surface of an immersed object. Its main application in the semiconductor industry is to deposit copper in interconnect wiring structures. This process step follows the deposition of barrier and seed layers which prevent the copper from contaminating other areas of the device, improve the adhesion of the copper film and enable electrodeposition to occur. Applied offers two ECD systems: the Applied Raider GT ECD system for electroplating advanced chip interconnect structures, and the Applied Raider S ECD system for advanced TSV packaging applications.

Physical Vapor Deposition

PVD is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated toward a metal target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer. The Applied Endura PVD system offers a broad range of advanced metal deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys, cobalt, titanium/titanium nitride, tantalum/tantalum nitride, tungsten/tungsten nitride, nickel, vanadium and copper. Introduced 22 years ago, the Company's Applied Endura platform is the most successful metal deposition system in the history of the semiconductor industry.

The Applied Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system is widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips. Using PVD technology, the system deposits a tantalum-based barrier film that prevents copper material from entering other areas of the device and then a copper seed layer that primes the structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk copper. The Applied Endura CuBS RFX PVD system extends cost-effective CuBS technology to the 22nm node. The Applied Endura Avenir™ RF PVD system sequentially deposits the multiple metal film layers that form the heart of the industry’s new, faster, metal gate transistors. The Applied Endura iLB PVD/ALD system advances the state-of-the-art in ALD technology, enabling customers to shrink their speed-critical contact structures for 20nm and below devices.

Applied’s Endura system has also been used for many years in back-end applications to deposit metal layers before final bump or wire bonding packaging steps are performed. Additionally, the Applied Charger™ UBM PVD system, which is specifically designed for under-bump metallization (UBM) and other back-end processes, features linear architecture for reliable performance and very high productivity at a low cost per wafer.









Etch

Etching is used many times throughout the integrated circuit manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a wide range of systems for etching dielectric, metal, and silicon films to meet the requirements of advanced processing.

Applied’s Producer Etch system utilizes the Twin-Chamber Producer platform to target cost-sensitive dielectric etch applications. To address advanced dielectric etch applications, the Applied Centura Enabler®E5 Etch system enables customers to create the 40:1 HAR contact features that are critical to the yield and performance of 32nm and below DRAM and Flash memory chips. The Applied Centura Carina™ system uses innovative, high-temperature technology to deliver the etch capability essential for scaling logic and memory devices with high-k/metal gates at 45nm and below.

For etching silicon, the Applied Centris AdvantEdge™ Mesa™ system features eight process chambers for high wafer output and proprietary system intelligence software to assure every process on every chamber precisely matches. The system also saves on power, water and gas consumption, helping customers to lower operating costs and support their sustainable manufacturing initiatives. The Applied Centura Mariana™ Trench Etch system provides customers with the capability to scale DRAM capacitors by enabling the etching of 80:1 aspect ratio structures. The Applied Centura Silvia™ system is specifically designed for etching small, deep holes for TSV applications in 3D-ICs. For etching metals, the Applied Opus™ AdvantEdge Metal Etch system uses an optimized 5-chamber platform configuration that enables customers to extend aluminum interconnect technology and productivity for flash and DRAM memory applications.

Rapid Thermal Processing

RTP is a process in which a wafer is subjected to rapid bursts of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. A rapid thermal process is used mainly for annealing, which modifies the properties of deposited films. The Applied Centura Radiance®Plusand Applied Vantage RadOx™ RTP systems feature advanced RTP technology with differing platform designs. While the multi-chamber Centura platform offers exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined two-chamber Vantage platform is designed for dedicated high-volume manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films, deposition steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no longer achieve with the necessary precision and control.

Applied’s latest RTP systems address the critical need for controlling wafer temperature to increase chip performance and yield. The laser-based Applied Vantage Astra™ millisecond anneal system abruptly raises the surface temperature of the wafer locally to modify material properties at the atomic level. The Applied Vantage Vulcan system, the first RTP system to heat the wafer entirely from the backside, brings a new level of precision and control to the anneal process, allowing chipmakers to produce more high performance devices per wafer.

Ion Implantation

Ion implantation is a key technology for forming transistors and is used many times during chip fabrication. During ion implantation, wafers are bombarded by a beam of electrically-charged ions, called dopants, which change the electrical properties of the exposed surface films. These dopants are accelerated to an energy that permits them to penetrate the substrate at a precise quantity and depth. Dopant concentration is determined by controlling the number of ions in the beam and the number of times the wafer passes through the beam; the depth of the dopants is determined by the energy of beam. Ion implantation systems may also be used in other areas of IC manufacturing to modify the material properties of the semiconductor devices, as well as in manufacturing crystalline-silicon solar cells.

As a result of Applied's acquisition of Varian, Applied now offers a comprehensive line of single-wafer ion implantation equipment that covers the entire energy and current range required to manufacture advanced devices. The VIISta 3000XP implanter delivers the angle precision required for advanced high-energy applications, while the VIISta 900XP implanter provides medium current doping and the industry's highest implant productivity. The VIISta PLAD implanter enables manufacturers to rapidly implant high dopant concentrations over the entire wafer using a low-energy process that preserves sensitive circuit features in next-generation devices. In 2012, Applied introduced the VIISta Trident high current ion implanter that provides the precise dose and angle control needed for advanced transistor structures.

With the acquisition of Varian, Applied also acquired ion implantation technology for c-Si cell manufacturing. The Applied SolionTMion implanter provides unique advantages over traditional thermal diffusion doping to create higher efficiency p-n junctions, which are the electronic pathways of the cell. The Solion system is based on the successful VIISta ribbon beam architecture and provides the precision and process control needed to support advanced solar cell structures.









Chemical Mechanical Planarization

The CMP process removes material from a wafer to create a flat (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent photolithography patterning steps to occur with greater accuracy and enables film layers to build with minimal height variations. Applied has led the industry with its 300mm Applied Reflexion®LK system, with features such as integrated cleaning, film measurement and process control capabilities. Applied’s latest CMP product, the Applied Reflexion GT system, has an innovative dual-wafer design that increases performance while lowering system cost of ownership in fabricating copper interconnects and tungsten contacts.

Surface Preparation

Cleaning the surface of the wafer is critical to the adhesion and quality of films that are subsequently deposited in the chip fabrication process. Applied offers several surface preparation systems. The Applied Raider SP tool can incorporate several types of cleaning methods, including spray, vapor, immersion, megasonics, and anneal technologies, with automated single or dual-side wafer processing for high volume manufacturing.

Metrology and Wafer Inspection

Applied offers several products for measuring features and inspecting defects on the wafer during various stages of the fabrication process. These systems enable customers to characterize and control critical dimension (CD) and defect issues, especially at advanced generation technology nodes.

Critical Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)

Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to form images of microscopic features of a patterned wafer at extremely high magnification. Applied’s SEM products provide customers with full automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring very small CDs. The Applied VeritySEM®4i metrology system uses proprietary SEM imaging technology to enable precise control of the lithography and etching processes, measuring CDs at a precision of less than 0.3nm. Applied’s OPC Check™ software for the VeritySEM system performs automated qualification of OPC-based (optical proximity correction) chip designs, significantly reducing mask (see Mask Making section below) verification time over conventional manual methods.

DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as particles, scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect detection system and then classify the defects to identify their source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied SEMVision™ Defect Analysis products enable customers to use this technology as an integral part of their production lines to analyze defects as small as 30nm with industry-leading throughput.

Wafer Inspection

Using deep ultraviolet (DUV) laser-based technology, defects can be detected on patterned wafers (wafers with printed circuit images) as they move between processing steps. Defects include particles, open circuit lines, and shorts between lines. The Applied UVision®5 wafer inspection system detects yield-limiting defects in the critical patterning layers of 22nm and below logic and memory devices. Applied also offers the Applied DFinder system, the first darkfield wafer inspection system to use DUV laser scanning to detect particles as small as 40nm in interconnect layers.

Mask Making

Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for etching and inspecting masks.

Applied's Tetra™ line of systems has been used by mask makers worldwide to etch the majority of high-end masks over the last five years. The Applied Centura Tetra EUV (extreme ultraviolet) Advanced Reticle Etch system is an advanced etch tool for fabricating leading-edge masks at 22nm and below. The Applied Aera3™ Mask inspection system also addresses the challenges of detecting defects on 22nm masks, using sophisticated aerial imaging technology that allows users to immediately see how the pattern on the mask will appear on the wafer, revealing only the defects most likely to print and significantly reducing inspection time. These systems also address the challenge of fabricating emerging EUV lithography masks.









Applied Global Services Segment

The Applied Global Services segment encompasses products and services designed to improve the performance and productivity, and reduce the environmental impact, of the fab operations of semiconductor, LCD, and solar PV manufacturers. The in-depth expertise and best known methods of Applied’s extensive global support infrastructure enable Applied to continuously support customers’ production requirements. Trained customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually located at or near customers’ fab sites and service over 33,000 installed Applied systems, as well as non-Applied systems. Applied offers the following general types of services and products under the Applied Global Services segment:

Fab and Equipment Services— Applied offers a portfolio of fab-wide operations services to maintain and optimize customers’ fabrication facilities. Applied Performance Services offers customers comprehensive equipment support with performance-based pricing and predictable costs to enable improved cost of ownership. Included in this program is Applied’s ExpertConnect remote diagnostic capability, providing expert support around the clock. In addition to these value-added services, Applied offers its FabVantage™ team of technology, equipment and engineering experts who provide key insights to helping customers solve some of their most difficult manufacturing challenges.

Applied also offers its Total Parts Management program with spare parts manufactured to Applied’s strict technical specifications and quality standards.

In addition, Applied offers a wide range of products and services to extend the productive life of 200mm semiconductor fabs, including new and remanufactured 200mm equipment, system enhancements and fab transition services. Designed to maximize productivity and lower cost of ownership, these products also assist customers in implementing green manufacturing solutions. Applied’s 200mm systems are available in a broad range of production-proven technologies, including CVD, PVD, etch, implant, RTP, CMP, epitaxy, metrology, and inspection tools.

Automation Systems— Applied offers automated factory-level and tool-level control software systems for semiconductor, LCD, and solar PV manufacturing facilities. These enterprise solutions include manufacturing execution systems (MES) to automate the production of wafers and LCD and solar substrates, advanced process control systems, and scheduling and materials handling control systems. The Applied SmartFactory™ MES software is a factory automation solution designed to help accelerate the production ramp of emerging technologies for solar PV, chip-packaging, and light-emitting diode (LED) applications.

Applied also offers computerized maintenance management systems, performance tracking, and modeling and simulation tools for improving asset utilization. Applied’s E3™ equipment engineering system solution, for example, integrates all critical equipment automation and process control components. The Applied SmartSched™ system is the semiconductor industry’s first predictive scheduling solution for optimizing the movement of wafers during the lithography process to reduce cycle time and increase tool utilization.

Thin Film Solar -As a result of Applied's restructuring of its Energy and Environmental Solutions segment in fiscal 2010, the Company discontinued sales to new customers of its fully-integrated SunFab™ thin film solar production lines, but continues  to support existing SunFab customers with services, upgrades and capacity increases through the Applied Global Services segment.  Thin film solar technologies are suitable for large-scale applications, such as utility scale solar farms and commercial rooftops, where space is not a constraint.

Display Segment

Applied’s products for manufacturing thin film transistor liquid crystal displays (TFT- LCDs) for televisions, personal computers (PCs), tablet PCs, smartphones, and other consumer-oriented electronic applications are reported under its Display segment. While similarities exist between the technologies utilized in chipmaking and LCD fabrication, the most significant differences are in the size and composition of the substrate. Substrates used to manufacture LCD panels can be more than 120 times larger in area than 300mm wafers and are made of glass, while wafers used in semiconductor fabrication are made of silicon.

Applied supplies a wide range of systems that process and test different glass substrate sizes. To meet consumer demand for larger, more cost-effective LCD TVs, Applied’s latest generation (Gen) 10 systems can process substrates sized at approximately 2.85 x 3.05 meters, with each substrate enabling the production of up to six 65-inch LCD TV screens.

Applied is also extending its core LCD technology to enable ultra-high resolution displays for next-generation smartphones, tablet PCs, and organic LED (OLED) TVs. These higher-performance displays are fabricated using newer materials such as low-temperature polysilicon (LTPS) and metal oxide films in the transistor layer of the panel to gain significantly faster switching speeds. In 2012, Applied added to its line of plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) systems for depositing LTPS films with the AKT-15K PX, AKT-25K PX, and AKT-55K PX systems. These CVD systems are offered for a range of display substrate sizes to enable manufacturers to achieve economies of scale.











In 2012, Applied also introduced technology for fabricating advanced metal oxide-based transistors in displays. The AKT-PiVot™ PVD system, which features rotary cathode array technology, deposits indium gallium zinc oxide (IZGO) film to form the transistor channel. The AKT-PECVD system is used to deposit the dielectric film needed to insulate the transistor gate. Together, these systems offer a cost-effective solution for producing smaller, faster switching pixels to create higher resolution screens.

For manufacturing the color filter of LCD panels, Applied offers the AKT-NEW ARISTO™ system for transparent conductive oxide film deposition. Providing customers with new levels of productivity and flexibility, the Applied AKT-AristoTwin system is used for manufacturing touch-enabled displays. The system features two independent processing tracks on a single system, enabling customers to achieve 50% more capacity using half the manufacturing space.

To complement these systems, Applied also offers a line of electron beam array test (EBT) systems for testing substrates during production for defective pixels and other imperfections, including the Gen-10 AKT-90K EBT product. Featuring one of the industry’s fastest and most accurate pixel test technologies with the lowest operating cost, the EBT systems’ non-contact test technology enables the safe testing of high-value LCD TV panels without damaging or scratching the display.

Energy and Environmental Solutions Segment

The Energy and Environmental Solutions segment includes manufacturing systems to produce products for the generation and conservation of energy. To increase the conversion efficiency and yields of solar PV devices and help reduce the cost per watt of solar-generated electricity, Applied offers manufacturing solutions for wafer-based crystalline silicon (c-Si) applications.

Applied’s portfolio of solar PV wafer and cell fabrication technologies has made it one of the leading suppliers of c-Si equipment worldwide in terms of revenue. In addition to innovative technology, these systems offer key manufacturing benefits to customers in high productivity, advanced ultra-thin wafer handling, and extensive automation.

Wafer manufacturing —Applied’s precision wafering systems crop and square silicon ingots into bricks and slice silicon bricks into thin wafers. These wafers are subsequently processed by cell manufacturing systems to create the PV cells used in making c-Si solar panels. The Applied HCT wire saw cropper and squarer systems cut silicon ingots into bricks with high productivity and minimal silicon loss. The Applied HCT B5 wire saw was designed for large load capacity in volume manufacturing and has a unique four-position architecture that provides load flexibility for optimizing yield and productivity.

Cell manufacturing —Applied offers a comprehensive line of automated metallization and test systems for c-Si cell manufacturing with its Applied Baccini products. These systems include high-precision printing capability for increasing the efficiency of c-Si solar cells. The latest metallization system is the Applied Baccini Pegaso™ platform for next-generation solar cell manufacturing. In addition to increased yield and output, a key feature of the Pegaso system is its proprietary “smart” capabilities that bring a new level of precision and control to the cell manufacturing process. The system’s modular architecture allows customers to rapidly add modules for additional processing capability, while reducing the time, cost, and risk of implementing new cell designs.

Other products offered under the Energy and Environmental Solutions segment include roll-to-roll, vacuum web coating systems for high-performance deposition of a range of films on flexible substrates for functional, aesthetic, or optical properties. The Applied TopMet™ 4450 system is the world’s largest and fastest roll-to-roll machine for depositing ultra-thin aluminum films for flexible packaging applications. The Applied SmartWeb™ system uses PVD technology to deposit critical multi-layer films required for fabricating advanced touch panels in mobile devices and other flexible electronic substrates. The system’s modular design allows up to 12 different thin film layers to be deposited simultaneously on flexible material, enabling complex structures to be created in a single pass.









Backlog

Applied manufactures systems to meet demand represented by order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog consists of: (1) orders for which written authorizations have been accepted and assigned shipment dates are within the next 12 months, or shipment has occurred but revenue has not been recognized; and (2) contractual service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months.

Backlog by reportable segment as ofOctober 28, 2012andOctober 30, 2011was as follows:



20122011(In millions, except percentages)Silicon Systems Group$70544%$91338%Applied Global Services58036%66228%Display20613%33714%Energy and Environmental Solutions1157%48020%Total$1,606100%$2,392100%

Applied’s backlog on any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any future periods, due to the potential for customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Delays in delivery schedules and/or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results of operations.

Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies

Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembly, test and integration of various proprietary and commercial parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) that are used to manufacture systems. Applied has implemented a distributed manufacturing model under which manufacturing and supply chain activities are conducted in various countries, including the United States, Europe, Israel, Singapore, Taiwan, and other countries in Asia, and assembly of some systems is completed at customer sites. Applied uses numerous vendors, including contract manufacturers, to supply parts and assembly services for the manufacture and support of its products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained from only a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied seeks to reduce costs and to lower the risks of manufacturing and service interruptions by: (1) selecting and qualifying alternate suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the financial condition of key suppliers; (3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts; (4) qualifying new parts on a timely basis; and (5) locating certain manufacturing operations in close proximity to suppliers and customers.

Research, Development and Engineering

Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued development of new products. The Company’s significant investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E) has generally enabled it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems and processes that meet their planned technical and production requirements. Product development and engineering organizations are located primarily in the United States, as well as in Europe, Israel, Taiwan, and China. In addition, Applied outsources certain RD&E activities, some of which are performed outside the United States, primarily in India. Process support and customer demonstration laboratories are located in the United States, China, Taiwan, Europe, and Israel.

Applied’s investments in RD&E for product development and engineering programs to create or improve products and technologies over the last three years were as follows:$1.2 billion(14 percentof net sales) in fiscal 2012,$1.1 billion(11 percentof net sales) in fiscal 2011, and$1.1 billion(12 percentof net sales) in fiscal 2010. Applied has spent an average of13 percentof net sales in RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs for automation control systems, materials research and environmental control that are applicable to its products.









Marketing and Sales

Net sales by geographic region, determined by the location of customers' facilities to which products were shipped, were as follows:



201220112010(In millions, except percentages)Taiwan2,41128%2,09320%2,75029%China7839%2,57424%1,55716%Korea1,89722%1,26312%1,76819%Japan7048%9129%7688%Southeast Asia3123%5925%5786%Asia Pacific6,10770%7,43470%7,42178%United States1,74920%1,96319%1,14712%Europe86310%1,12011%98110%Total$8,719100%$10,517100%$9,549100%

Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells products worldwide almost entirely through a direct sales force. Approximately80 percentof Applied’s fiscal 2012 net sales were to regions outside of the United States.

General economic conditions impact Applied’s business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which products are sold experience weak economic conditions that may negatively impact sales. Applied’s business is usually not seasonal in nature, but it is highly cyclical, based on capital equipment investment by major semiconductor, flat panel display, solar PV and other manufacturers. Customers’ expenditures depend on many factors, including: anticipated market demand and pricing for semiconductors, LCDs, solar cells and modules, and other substrates; the development of new technologies; customers’ factory utilization; capital resources and financing; government policies and incentives; and global and regional economic conditions.

Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic regions is included in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following companies accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales in 2012, 2011, and/or 2010, which were for products in multiple reportable segments.



201220112010Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.20%12%14%Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited16%10%11%Intel Corporation*10%*

________________________

*Less than 10%.









Competition

The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Applied’s ability to compete generally depends on its ability to timely commercialize its technology, continually improve its products and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors include technical capability and differentiation, productivity and cost-effectiveness. The importance of these factors varies according to customers’ needs, including product mix and respective product requirements, applications, and the timing and circumstances of purchasing decisions. Substantial competition exists in all areas of Applied’s business. Competitors range from small companies that compete with a single product and/or in a single region, to global, diversified companies with a range of products. Applied’s ability to compete requires a high level of investment in RD&E, marketing and sales and global customer support activities. Management believes that many of Applied’s products have strong competitive positions.

The competitive environment for each segment is described below.

Products and services within the Applied Global Services segment complement the Silicon Systems Group, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions segments’ products, in markets that are characterized by demanding worldwide service requirements and a diverse group of numerous competitors. To compete effectively, Applied offers products and services to improve tool performance, lower overall cost of ownership, and increase the productivity and energy efficiency of customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level of technical service and support. The importance of these factors varies according to customers’ needs and the type of products or services offered.  Industry conditions that affected Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services in fiscal 2012 were principally semiconductor manufacturers' wafer starts and factory utilization rates.

Products in the Display segment are generally subject to strong competition from a number of major competitors. Applied holds established market positions with its technically-differentiated TFT-LCD manufacturing solutions for PECVD, color filter PVD, PVD array, PVD touch panel, and TFT array testing, although its market position could change quickly due to customers' evolving requirements. The competitive environment for the Display segment in fiscal 2012 was characterized by the weakest level of industry investment in TV manufacturing equipment in recent history, while investment continued in equipment to make touch screen and high-end mobile devices. Important factors affecting the competitive position of Applied's Display products include: industry trends, Applied's ability to innovate and develop new products, and the extent to which Applied's products are technically-differentiated, as well as which customers within a highly concentrated customer base are making capital equipment investments and Applied's existing position at these customers.









Patents and Licenses

Management believes that Applied’s competitive position significantly depends upon the Company’s research, development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities, and not just on its patent position. However, protection of Applied’s technological assets through enforcement of its intellectual property rights, including patents, is important. Therefore, Applied’s practice is to file patent applications in the United States and other countries for inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a substantial number of patents in the United States and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new inventions. Although Applied does not consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a whole, are a significant element of Applied’s business. In addition to patents, Applied also possesses other intellectual property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets, and copyrights.

Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when management determines that it is in Applied’s best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed to Applied. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from or paid to third parties have not been, and are not expected to be, material to Applied’s consolidated results of operations.

In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In responding to such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Environmental Matters

Applied maintains a number of environmental, health, and safety programs that are primarily preventive in nature. As part of these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, Applied has trained personnel to conduct investigations of any environmental, health, or safety incidents, including, but not limited to, spills, releases, or possible contamination.

Compliance with federal, state and local environmental, health, and safety provisions, including, but not limited to, those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, remedial agreements, and other actions relating to the environment have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on Applied’s capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition, or results of operations.

The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health, and safety activities can be found in the Company’s latest Citizenship Report on its website at http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/cr/sustainability. The Citizenship Report is updated periodically. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, Applied’s website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein.

Employees

At October 28, 2012, Applied employed approximately14,500regular employees and 500 temporary employees. In the high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon its continued ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract, hire, assimilate, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees.









Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table and notes set forth information about Applied’s executive officers as of November 30, 2012:



Name of IndividualPositionMichael R. Splinter(1)Chairman of Board of Directors, Chief Executive OfficerGary E. Dickerson(2)PresidentGeorge S. Davis(3)Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerRandhir Thakur(4)Executive Vice President, General Manager Silicon SystemsJoseph Flanagan(5)Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Supply ChainMary Humiston(6)Senior Vice President, Global Human ResourcesManfred Kerschbaum(7)Senior Vice President, Chief of StaffThomas F. Larkins(8)Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryOmkaram Nalamasu(9)Group Vice President, Chief Technology OfficerCharlie Pappis(10)Group Vice President, General Manager Applied Global ServicesAli Salehpour(11)Group Vice President, General Manager  Energy and Environmental Solutions and Display Business GroupsThomas S. Timko(12)Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer

(1)Mr. Splinter, age 62, has been Chief Executive Officer of Applied since April 2003 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 2009. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Splinter was an executive at Intel Corporation (Intel), a manufacturer of chips and computer, networking and communications products, where Mr. Splinter held a number of positions, including Executive Vice President and Director of Sales and Marketing and Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Technology and Manufacturing Group.

(2)Mr. Dickerson, age 55, was named President of Applied in June 2012, after working on merger integration matters since joining Applied following its acquisition of Varian in November 2011. Mr. Dickerson was Chief Executive Officer and a director of Varian from 2004. Prior to joining Varian in 2004, Mr. Dickerson served 18 years with KLA-Tencor Corporation (KLA-Tencor), a supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related industries, where he held a variety of operations and product development roles before being appointed Chief Operating Officer in 1999 and then President and Chief Operating Officer in 2002. Mr. Dickerson started his semiconductor career in manufacturing and engineering management at General Motors' Delco Electronics Division and then AT&T, Inc.

(3)Mr. Davis, age 55, has been Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Applied since December 2009, after serving as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, since December 2006, and Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from November 2006. Previously, he had been Group Vice President, General Manager, Corporate Business Development since March 2005. From November 1999 to February 2005, Mr. Davis served as Vice President and Corporate Treasurer, where he managed Applied’s worldwide treasury operations and was responsible for investments, tax, financial risk management, and trade and export matters. Mr. Davis joined Applied in 1999. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Davis served 19 years with Atlantic Richfield Company, a global oil, gas and chemical company, in a number of finance and other corporate positions.

(4)Dr. Thakur, age 50, has been Executive Vice President, General Manager Silicon Systems Group since December 2009, after serving as Senior Vice President, General Manager Silicon Systems Group since October 2009. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, General Manager, Thin Film Solar and Display. He was appointed Senior Vice President, General Manager, Strategic Operations when he rejoined Applied in May 2008. He previously was with Applied from 2000 to 2005 in a variety of executive roles including Group Vice President, General Manager for Front End Products. From September 2005 to May 2008, Dr. Thakur served as Executive Vice President of Technology and Fab Operations at SanDisk Corporation, a data storage solutions manufacturer, and as head of SanDisk’s worldwide operations. Prior to joining Applied in 2000, Dr. Thakur served in leadership roles at Steag Electronic Systems, an electronics company, and Micron Technology, Inc., a semiconductor manufacturer.

(5)Mr. Flanagan, age 41, joined Applied as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Supply Chain in February 2010. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Flanagan held executive positions in global operations for Nortel Networks Corporation, a telecommunications equipment manufacturer, since 2006, including President of Nortel Business Services from August 2009 to February 2010, and Senior Vice President of Global Operations from August 2007 until August 2009. Previously, Mr. Flanagan held a number of positions from 1993 to 2006 at General Electric Company (GE), a global infrastructure, finance and media company.









(6)Ms. Humiston, age 47, was named Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources in July 2011. She was Corporate Vice President, Global Human Resources from June 2009 to June 2010 and then promoted to Group Vice President in July 2010. Prior to June 2009, she served as the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources for both the Energy and Environmental Solutions and Display groups. Prior to joining Applied, Ms. Humiston was Vice President of Human Resources at Honeywell International Inc., which provides technologies to address safety, security and energy, from October 2002 to June 2008, with responsibility for various corporate and international organizations. She previously held executive positions with PeoplePC, an internet service provider; Gap, Inc., an apparel retailer; and GE.

(7)Mr. Kerschbaum, age 58, was named Senior Vice President, Chief of Staff in September 2009. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, General Manager, Applied Global Services from January 2005 to September 2009. Mr. Kerschbaum was Senior Vice President, Global Operations from July 2004 to January 2005 and from October 2002 to May 2003. From May 2003 to July 2004, he was Group Vice President, Foundation Engineering and Operations. From January 1996 to October 2002, he held various positions in Applied Materials North America, most recently as Group Vice President, General Manager, Applied Materials North America. Mr. Kerschbaum has served in various other operations, customer service and engineering positions since joining Applied in 1983. Mr. Kerschbaum has announced his intent to retire from the Company in January 2013.

(8)Mr. Larkins, age 51, was named Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Applied in November 2012, with responsibility for global legal affairs, intellectual property and security.  Previously, Mr. Larkins was employed by Honeywell International (Honeywell), a diversified global technology and manufacturing company, where he was Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Deputy General Counsel from 2002 until joining Applied.  Mr. Larkins served in various other positions at Honeywell (formerly AlliedSignal) after joining the company in 1997, including Vice President and General Counsel of its Automation and Control Solutions business segment, and General Counsel of its Aerospace Services business unit.

(9)Dr. Nalamasu, age 54, was promoted to Group Vice President, Chief Technology Officer for Applied in January 2012, after serving as Corporate Vice President, Chief Technology Officer since January 2011. Upon joining Applied in June 2006 and until January 2011, Dr. Nalamasu was an Appointed Vice President of Research and served as Deputy Chief Technology Officer and General Manager for Advanced Technologies Group. From 2002 to 2006, Dr. Nalamasu was a NYSTAR distinguished professor of Materials Science and Engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where he also served as Vice President of Research from 2005 to 2006. Prior to that, he held various R&D leadership positions at Bell Labs and later Lucent Technologies, Inc., a telecommunications company, for 17 years.

(10)Mr. Pappis, age 51, has been Group Vice President and General Manager of Applied Global Services since September 2009. He previously held positions in Applied Global Services as Corporate Vice President and General Manager for the Semiconductor Service Solutions group and as general manager for Equipment Productivity Services. He has held various other management positions since joining Applied in 1986.

(11)Mr. Salehpour, age 51, joined Applied in November 2012 as Group Vice President, General Manager Energy and Environmental Solutions and Display Business Groups. Prior to Applied, Mr. Salehpour worked at KLA-Tencor for 16 years, where he served most recently as Senior Vice President and General Manager SFS-ADE Divisions from 2008. Previous positions at KLA-Tencor included President North America Field Operations from 2005 to 2008, and Senior Vice President and General Manager Intel Business Unit from 2001 to 2005. Prior to KLA-Tencor, Mr. Salehpour worked in the Schlumberger Test Systems unit of Schlumberger Ltd. in marketing, account management and engineering roles.

(12)Mr. Timko, age 44,  joined Applied in March 2010 as Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. From June 2006 until March 2010, Mr. Timko was with Delphi Automotive LLP, a supplier to the automotive, computing, communications, energy and consumer accessories markets, where he was most recently Chief Accounting Officer and Controller. He served as Assistant Controller for The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a global provider of advertising and marketing services, from December 2004 to June 2006, and previously at Dover Corporation, a manufacturer of industrial products. Mr. Timko began his career in 1991 with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC, a provider of audit and assurance, tax and advisory services, and is a certified public accountant.









Available Information

Applied’s website ishttp://www.appliedmaterials.com.Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, Applied’s website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein.





