Item 1:Business



Incorporated in 1967, Applied, a Delaware corporation, provides
    manufacturing equipment, services and software to the global
    semiconductor, flat panel display, solar photovoltaic (PV) and
    related industries. Applied’s customers include
    manufacturers of semiconductor wafers and chips, flat panel
    liquid crystal displays (LCDs), solar PV cells and modules, and
    other electronic devices. These customers may use what they
    manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other
    companies for use in advanced electronic components. The
    Company’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October.



Applied is the world’s largest semiconductor fabrication
    equipment supplier based on revenue, with the capability to
    provide global deployment and support services. Applied also is
    a leading supplier of LCD fabrication equipment to the flat
    panel display industry and is the leading supplier of solar PV
    manufacturing systems to the solar industry, based on revenue.



Applied operates in four reportable segments: Silicon Systems
    Group, Applied Global Services, Display, and Energy and
    Environmental Solutions. A summary of financial information for
    each reportable segment is found in Note 17 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements. A discussion of factors that
    could affect Applied’s operations is set forth under
    “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, which is incorporated
    herein by reference.



Silicon
    Systems Group Segment



Applied’s Silicon Systems Group segment develops,
    manufactures and sells a wide range of manufacturing equipment
    used to fabricate semiconductor chips, also referred to as
    integrated circuits (ICs). Most chips are built on a silicon
    wafer base and include a variety of circuit components, such as
    transistors and other devices, that are connected by multiple
    layers of wiring (interconnects). Applied offers systems that
    perform most of the primary processes used in chip fabrication
    including atomic layer deposition (ALD), chemical vapor
    deposition (CVD), physical vapor deposition (PVD),
    electrochemical deposition (ECD) etch, rapid thermal processing
    (RTP), chemical mechanical planarization (CMP), wet cleaning and
    wafer metrology and inspection, as well as systems that etch,
    measure and inspect circuit patterns on masks used in the
    photolithography process. Applied’s semiconductor
    manufacturing systems are used by integrated device
    manufacturers and foundries to build and package memory, logic
    and other types of chips.





While some device manufacturers are still using aluminum as the
    main conducting material for building interconnect structures,
    most have transitioned to copper. Copper has lower resistance
    than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area.
    Applied is the leading supplier of systems for manufacturing
    copper-based chips, including equipment for depositing, etching
    and planarizing copper interconnect layers. Complementing the
    transition to copper to improve chip speed is the use of low
    dielectric constant (low k) films to replace silicon





dioxide material as the insulator between the copper wiring
    structures. Applied also leads the industry in providing systems
    for depositing low k dielectric films.



The transistor is another key area of the chip where
    semiconductor manufacturers are improving their device designs
    to enhance speed. Applied has the industry’s largest
    portfolio of technically advanced products for building smaller
    and faster transistors. One method of enhancing chip performance
    is strain engineering, a technique that stretches or compresses
    the space between atoms, allowing electrical current to flow
    more quickly. Multiple strain films are typically used in
    advanced devices since they have an additive effect on
    increasing transistor speed. Applied has a comprehensive
    portfolio of systems to enable these applications using CVD and
    epitaxial deposition technologies.



Major chipmakers have announced that they will be integrating
    new high dielectric constant (high-k) and metal materials and
    processes in their transistor gate structures to increase chip
    performance and reduce power consumption. Applied has a
    comprehensive portfolio of fully characterized processes for
    building thesehigh-k/metalgates. These solutions include an integrated dielectric gate
    stack tool that combines four critical processes in a single
    system, a portfolio of metallization technologies using ALD and
    PVD, and an innovative high temperature etch system.



As new consumer products demand higher performance in a smaller
    space, a new type of chip packaging is emerging, known as
    three-dimensional (3D) ICs. Providing greater functionality in a
    smaller footprint, 3DICs stack multiple chips together and
    electrically interconnect them using deep holes, called
    through-silicon via (TSV) structures. In fiscal 2010, Applied
    acquired Semitool, Inc., a leading supplier of ECD and wafer
    surface preparation equipment used by chip packaging companies.
    Applied now has the industry’s most comprehensive line of
    production-proven systems and processes required for the
    majority of advanced packaging manufacturing steps, including
    etch, CVD, PVD, ECD, wafer cleaning and CMP systems. Applied is
    leading efforts to enable the adoption of packaging technology,
    working with consortiums and other equipment suppliers to lower
    customers’ implementation costs.



Most of Applied’s semiconductor equipment products are
    single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to
    a base platform. This enables each wafer to be processed
    separately in its own environment, allowing precise process
    control, while the system’s multiple chambers enable
    simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing. Applied sells
    most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on four basic
    platforms: the
    Centura®,

    the
    Endura®,

    the
    Producer®and the
    Vantage®.

    These platforms support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP technologies.



Over time, the semiconductor industry has migrated to
    increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant or
    common wafer size used today for volume production of advanced
    chips is 300 millimeter (mm), or12-inch,wafers. Applied offers a comprehensive range of 300mm systems.
    Applied also offers earlier-generation 200mm systems, as well as
    products and services to support all of its systems, which are
    reported under its Applied Global Services segment.



The following summarizes Applied’s portfolio of products
    and their associated process technology areas reported under its
    Silicon Systems Group segment.



Deposition



Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During
    deposition, layers of dielectric (an insulator), barrier, or
    electrically conductive (typically metal) films are deposited or
    grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to
    perform four types of deposition: ALD, CVD, ECD and PVD. In
    addition, Applied’s RTP systems can be used to perform
    certain types of dielectric deposition.



Atomic
    Layer Deposition



ALD is an advanced technology in which atoms are deposited one
    layer at a time to build chip structures. This technology
    enables customers to fabricate thin films of either conducting
    or insulating material with uniform coverage insub-nanometersized structures. Applied offers ALD chambers for depositing
    tungsten and high-k/metal gate films. In 2010, the Company
    introduced its Applied Endura iLB PVD/ALD system, an advancement
    in ALD technology that





enables customers to shrink the contact structures to increase
    signal speeds in 22nm and beyond logic and memory devices.



Chemical
    Vapor Deposition



CVD is used to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer.
    During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material
    to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film
    of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide,
    single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous silicon, silicon
    nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k dielectric
    (for highly efficient insulating materials), aluminum, titanium,
    titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or
    silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and
    technologies:



The Applied Producer CVD platform— This
    high-throughput platform features
    Twin-Chamber®modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up
    to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer
    platform, giving it a simultaneous processing capacity of six
    wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this
    platform. The highest productivity model of this system is the
    Applied Producer GT, which has achieved rapid customer
    acceptance due to its fast wafer handling performance and
    compact design.



Low k Dielectric Films— Low k dielectric
    materials are used in copper-based chip designs to further
    improve interconnect speed. Using conventional CVD equipment,
    the Applied Producer Black
    Diamond®family of low k systems provides customers with a proven,
    cost-effective way to integrate a variety of low k films into
    advanced interconnect structures. To further increase the
    performance of the complete multi-layer dielectric structure,
    Applied offers a line of
    BLOKtm(barrier low k) films deposited with the Producer system.



Lithography-Enabling Solutions— Applied offers
    several technologies on the Producer system to help chipmakers
    extend their current 193nm lithography tools, including a line
    of Applied
    APF®(advanced patterning film) films and Applied
    DARC®(dielectric anti-reflective coating) films. Together, they
    provide a film stack with the precise dimensional control and
    compatibility needed to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale
    features without additional integration complexity.



Gap Fill Films— There are many steps during
    the chipmaking process in which very small and deep, or high
    aspect ratio (HAR), structures must be filled void-free with a
    dielectric film. Many of these applications include the
    deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures,
    contacts and interconnects. The Applied Centura Ultima
    HDP-CVD®(high-density plasma CVD) and Applied Producer
    HARPtm(high aspect ratio process) systems have been workhorses for the
    industry, enabling customers to scale their devices to the 32nm
    node. In 2010, the Company introduced its breakthrough Applied
    Producer
    EternatmFCVD system. Targeted for 20nm and below chips, the Eterna
    system delivers a liquid-like film that flows freely into
    virtually any structure to provide void-free dielectric fill.



Strain Engineering Solutions— The Applied
    Producer HARP system also plays a key role in enhancing
    transistor performance, enabling chipmakers to boost chip speed
    by depositing strain-inducing dielectric films. Offering the
    industry’s first integrated stress nitride deposition and
    ultraviolet (UV) cure solution, the Applied Producer Celera CVD
    delivers benchmark levels of high-stress tensile silicon nitride
    films. The Company also offers the Applied Centura SiNgenPlus
    low pressure CVD system for low temperature silicon nitride
    films. Used together, and in conjunction with silicon germanium
    (SiGe) films using Applied’s epitaxial deposition
    technologies, these systems can provide additive strain
    engineering benefits.



Through-Silicon Via Films— In 2010, Applied
    expanded its offerings for TSV fabrication, with two new CVD
    systems. The Applied Producer
    InViatmsystem uses a unique process to deposit the critical oxide liner
    film layer in HAR TSV structures, enabling robust electrical
    isolation of the TSV, which is vital for reliable device
    performance. For applications where higher temperatures can
    damage the manufacturing process, the Applied Producer
    AvilatmCVD system allows high quality dielectric film deposition at
    stable substrate temperatures at a low cost of ownership.



Epitaxial Deposition— Epitaxial silicon
    (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform
    crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base
    for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an
    increasing number of integrated circuit devices in both the
    wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to





enhance speed. The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre-
    and post-epi processes on the same system to improve film
    quality and reduce production costs. This system is also used
    for SiGe epi technology, which reduces power usage and increases
    speed in certain types of advanced chips. For emerging
    transistor designs, the Applied Centura RP Epi system offers
    selective epi processes to enable faster transistor switching
    through strain engineering techniques.



Polysilicon Deposition— Polysilicon is a type
    of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure
    within the integrated circuit device. The Applied Centura
    PolygentmLPCVD system is a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that
    deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures to create
    transistor gate structures. To address the challenging
    requirements of shrinking gate dimensions, the Applied Centura
    DPN Gate Stack system integrates chambers for decoupled plasma
    nitridation (DPN), RTP anneal and polysilicon deposition on one
    platform to enable superior film quality and material properties.



Tungsten Deposition— Tungsten is used in the
    contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the
    wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also
    used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of
    aluminum wiring. Applied has two products for depositing
    tungsten: the Applied Centura
    Sprint®Tungsten CVD system for 90nm and below devices and the Applied
    Centura iSprint ALD/CVD system for more advanced applications.
    The latter product combines ALD technology and CVD chambers on
    the same platform.



Electrochemical
    Deposition



Electrochemical deposition is a process by which metal atoms
    from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the
    surface of an immersed object. Its main application in the
    semiconductor industry is to deposit copper in interconnect
    wiring structures. This process step follows the deposition of
    barrier and seed layers which prevent the copper from
    contaminating other areas of the device and improve the adhesion
    of the copper filmenable electrodeposition to occur. As a result
    of Applied’s acquisition of Semitool, the Company offers
    two ECD systems: the Applied Raider ECD for electroplating
    advanced chip interconnect structures, and the Applied Raider S
    ECD for advanced TSV packaging applications.



Physical
    Vapor Deposition



PVD is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as
    argon, are accelerated toward a metal target. The metal atoms
    chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer.
    The Applied Endura PVD system offers a broad range of advanced
    metal deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys,
    cobalt,titanium/titaniumnitride, tantalum/tantalum nitride, tungsten/tungsten nitride,
    nickel, vanadium and copper. In 2010, Applied celebrated the
    20th year of its Applied Endura platform, the most successful
    metal deposition system in the history of the semiconductor
    industry.



The Applied Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system is
    widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips.
    Using PVD technology, the system deposits a tantalum-based
    barrier film that prevents copper material from entering other
    areas of the device and then a copper seed layer that primes the
    structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk copper. The
    Applied Endura CuBS RFX PVD system extends cost-effective CuBS
    technology to the 22nm node. In 2010, Applied introduced two new
    PVD systems for creating the leading-edge chips needed for the
    next generation of smart devices. The Applied Endura
    AvenirtmRF PVD system sequentially deposits the multiple metal film
    layers that form the heart of the industry’s new, faster,
    metal gate transistors. The Applied Endura iLB PVD/ALD system
    advances thestate-of-the-artin ALD technology, enabling customers to shrink their
    speed-critical contact structures for 20nm and below devices.



Applied’s Endura system has also been used for many years
    in back-end applications to deposit metal layers before final
    bump or wire bonding packaging steps are performed. The Applied
    ChargertmUBM PVD system, which is specifically designed for under-bump
    metallization (UBM) and other back-end processes, features
    linear architecture for reliable performance and very high
    productivity at a low cost per wafer.





Etch



Etching is used many times throughout the integrated circuit
    manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the
    surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated
    with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A
    photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto
    the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by
    the photoresist pattern. Applied offers a wide range of systems
    for etching dielectric, metal and silicon films to meet the
    requirements ofsub-100nmprocessing.



Applied’s Producer Etch system utilizes the Company’s
    Twin-Chamber Producer platform to target cost-sensitive
    dielectric etch applications. To address advanced dielectric
    etch applications, the Applied Centura
    Enabler®E5 Etch system enables customers to create the 40:1 HAR contact
    features that are critical to the yield and performance of 32nm
    and below DRAM and Flash memory chips. The Applied Centura
    Carinatmsystem uses innovative, high-temperature technology to deliver
    the etch capability essential for scaling logic and memory
    devices with high-k/metal gates at 45nm and below.



In 2010, the Company introduced its Applied Centura
    AdvantEdgetmMesatmsilicon etch system for fabricating nano-scale circuit features
    with angstrom-level precision. The system has achieved strong
    acceptance by customers, providing the critical technical
    capability needed for their next-generation devices. The Applied
    Centura
    MarianatmTrench Etch system provides customers with the capability to
    scale DRAM capacitors by enabling the etching of 80:1 aspect
    ratio structures. The Applied Centura
    Silviatmsystem is specifically designed for etching small, deep holes
    for TSV applications in 3D-ICs. For etching metals, the Applied
    OpustmAdvantEdge Metal Etch uses an optimized 5-chamber platform
    configuration that enables customers to extend aluminum
    interconnect technology and productivity for flash and DRAM
    memory applications.



Rapid
    Thermal Processing



RTP is a process in which a wafer is subjected to rapid bursts
    of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to
    more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. A rapid
    thermal process is used mainly for annealing, which modifies the
    properties of deposited films. The Applied Centura
    Radiance®Plusand Applied Vantage
    RadOxtmRTP systems feature advanced RTP technology with differing
    platform designs. While the multi-chamber Centura platform
    offers exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined
    two-chamber Vantage platform is designed for dedicated
    high-volume manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are
    also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films,
    deposition steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no
    longer achieve with the necessary precision and control. With
    its proprietary radical-based oxidation process, the Applied
    Vantage RadOx system deposits high-performance transistor gate
    oxides with high productivity and low operating cost for flash
    memory applications. In 2010, the Company introduced its
    laser-based Applied Vantage
    Astratmmillisecond anneal system for creating the sensitive nickel
    silicide transistor contact layers, enabling faster, lower
    power-consumption logic chips.



Chemical
    Mechanical Planarization



The CMP process removes material from a wafer to create a flat
    (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent
    photolithography patterning steps to occur with greater accuracy
    and enables film layers to build with minimal height variations.
    Applied has led the industry with its 300mm Applied
    Reflexion®LK system, with features such as integrated cleaning, film
    measurement and process control capabilities. In 2010, Applied
    introduced its Applied Reflexion GT CMP system, an innovative
    dual-wafer design that increases performance while lowering
    system cost of ownership in fabricating copper interconnects.



Surface
    Preparation



Cleaning the surface of the wafer is critical to the adhesion
    and quality of films that are subsequently deposited in the chip
    fabrication process. Through its acquisition of Semitool,
    Applied offers several surface preparation systems. The Applied
    Raider SP can incorporate several types of cleaning methods,
    including spray, vapor, immersion, megasonics and anneal
    technologies with automated single or dual-side wafer processing
    for high volume manufacturing.





Metrology
    and Wafer Inspection



Applied offers several products for measuring features and
    inspecting defects on the wafer during various stages of the
    fabrication process. These systems enable customers to
    characterize and control critical dimension (CD) and defect
    issues, especially at advanced generation technology nodes.



Critical
    Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes
    (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs)



Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to
    form images of microscopic features of a patterned wafer at
    extremely high magnification. Applied’s SEM products
    provide customers with full automation, along with the high
    accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring very small CDs.
    The Applied
    VeritySEM®metrology system uses proprietary SEM imaging technology to
    enable precise control of the lithography and etching processes.
    The VeritySEM measures CDs at a precision of less than 0.3nm, a
    requirement for 32nm and below device production and
    incorporates automation and software advancements for
    significantly higher throughput. Applied’s OPC
    Checktmsoftware for the VeritySEM system performs automated
    qualification of OPC-based (optical proximity correction) chip
    designs, significantly reducing mask (see Mask Making section
    below) verification time over conventional manual methods.



DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as particles,
    scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect
    detection system and then classify the defects to identify their
    source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied
    SEMVisiontmDefect Analysis products enable customers to use this technology
    as an integral part of their production lines to analyze defects
    as small as 30nm with industry-leading throughput.



Wafer
    Inspection



Using laser-based technology, defects can be detected on
    patterned wafers (wafers with printed circuit images) as they
    move between processing steps. Defects include particles, open
    circuit lines, and shorts between lines. Incorporating key
    advances in imaging technology, the Applied
    ComPlustmInspection system, for darkfield applications, detects defects
    in devices with advanced design rules with the high speed
    required for customers’ volume production lines. The
    Applied
    UVision®4 wafer Inspection system was introduced in 2010, enabling
    customers to detect yield-limiting defects in the critical
    patterning layers of 22nm and below logic and memory devices
    using DUV laser-based imaging technology.



Mask
    Making



Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer
    microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection
    in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be
    virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for etching and
    inspecting masks.



In 2010, the Company introduced its Applied Centura
    TetratmX Advanced Reticle Etch system, an advanced etch tool for
    fabricating leading-edge masks at 22nm and beyond.
    Applied’s Tetra line of systems has been used by mask
    makers worldwide to etch the majority of high-end masks over the
    last five years. Applied also introduced the Applied
    Aera3tmMask Inspection system which allows customers to meet the most
    critical defect detection challenges of 22nm masks. Using
    sophisticated aerial imaging technology, the Aera3 allows users
    to immediately see how the pattern on the mask will appear on
    the wafer, revealing only the defects most likely to print and
    significantly reducing inspection time.



Applied
    Global Services Segment



The Applied Global Services segment encompasses products and
    services designed to improve the performance and productivity,
    and reduce the environmental impact of the fab operations of
    semiconductor, LCD and solar PV manufacturers. The in-depth
    expertise and best known methods of Applied’s extensive
    global support infrastructure enable Applied to continuously
    support customers’ production requirements. Trained
    customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in
    more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually





located at or near customers’ fab sites and service over
    34,000 installed Applied systems, as well as non-Applied
    systems. Applied offers the following general types of services
    and products:



Fab Services— Applied offers a portfolio of
    fab-wide operations services to maintain and optimize
    customers’ fabrication facilities. Applied Performance
    Services offers customers comprehensive equipment support with
    performance-based pricing and predictable costs to enable
    improved cost of ownership. Included in this program is
    Applied’s ExpertConnect remote diagnostic capability,
    providing expert support around the clock. The Company also
    offers Performance Services for solar PV manufacturing. The
    first service product of its kind for the solar industry, the
    program enables customers to quickly ramp to volume production
    while optimizing the performance, cost and output of their
    manufacturing lines.



The Company also offers Performance Spares, which are spare
    parts manufactured to Applied’s strict technical
    specifications and quality standards. Applied’s Metron
    Chamber Performance Services unit provides precision cleaning,
    technology-enhanced coating and refurbishment on chamber process
    kits and components. The unit also has extensive analytical
    testing capabilities to validate and certify performance
    specifications.



In addition, Applied offers a wide range of products and
    services to extend the productive life of 200mm semiconductor
    fabs, including new and remanufactured 200mm equipment, system
    enhancements and fab transition services. Designed to maximize
    productivity and lower cost of ownership, these products also
    assist customers in implementing green manufacturing solutions.
    Applied’s 200mm systems are available in a broad range of
    production-proven technologies, including CVD, PVD, etch,
    implant, RTP, CMP, epitaxy, metrology and inspection tools.



Automation Systems— Applied offers automated
    factory-level and tool-level control software systems for
    semiconductor, LCD and solar cell manufacturing facilities.
    These enterprise solutions include manufacturing execution
    systems (MES) to automate the production of wafers and LCD and
    solar substrates, advanced process control systems, and
    scheduling and materials handling control systems. In 2010, the
    Company introduced its Applied
    SmartFactorytmMES software, a factory automation solution designed to help
    accelerate the production ramp of emerging technologies for
    solar PV, chip-packaging, and light-emitting diode (LED)
    applications.



Applied also offers computerized maintenance management systems,
    performance tracking, and modeling and simulation tools for
    improving asset utilization. Applied’s E3 equipment
    engineering system solution, for example, uniquely integrates
    all critical equipment automation and process control
    components. In 2010, the Company introduced its Applied
    SmartSchedtmsystem, the semiconductor industry’s first predictive
    scheduling solution for optimizing the movement of wafers during
    the lithography process to reduce cycle time and increase tool
    utilization.



Sub-FabSystems— A significant component of solar PV chip
    manufacturing is the ancillary equipment such as pumps and
    abatement systems that are connected to the process chambers.
    Located outside the clean area of the facility in thesub-fab,this equipment controls fab emissions to assure clean,
    sustainable chip manufacturing.



Abatement Control Systems— In 2010, the
    Company introduced its Applied
    iSYStmplatform, the industry’s first fully-integrated abatement
    and vacuum pumping solution for controlling emissions and
    reducing energy costs in the fab. Synchronized with an Applied
    process tool, the iSYS system can deliver typical annual savings
    in power, water and gas consumption equivalent to 200MWh of
    energy compared to currently available technologies.



Display
    Segment



Applied’s AKT subsidiary, reported under the Display
    segment, designs, manufactures and sells equipment to fabricate
    thin film transistor LCDs for televisions, computer displays and
    other consumer-oriented electronic applications. While
    similarities exist between the technologies utilized in
    chipmaking and LCD fabrication, the most significant differences
    are in the size and composition of the substrate. Substrates
    used to manufacture LCD panels can be more than 70 times larger
    in area than 300mm wafers and are made of glass, while wafers
    are made of silicon.



Applied supplies a wide range of systems that process and test
    different glass substrate sizes. For fabricating the transistor
    layer of these panels, the Company offers a line of
    plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) systems that use





multi-chamber platform architecture to deposit dielectric and
    semiconducting films. The
    AKT-PiVottm55KV system employs high-productivity, cost-efficient PVD
    technology to deposit metal and transparent conductive oxide
    films on the substrate. For manufacturing the color filter of
    LCD panels, Applied offers the AKT-NEW
    ARISTOtmfor transparent conductive oxide film deposition.



To complement these systems, Applied also offers a line of
    electron beam test (EBT) systems for testing substrates during
    production for defective pixels and other imperfections.
    Featuring one of the industry’s fastest and most accurate
    pixel test technologies with the lowest operating cost, the EBT
    systems’ non-contact test technology enables the safe
    testing of high-value LCD TV panels without damaging or
    scratching the display.



To meet growing consumer demand for larger, more cost-effective
    LCD TVs, LCD manufacturers have moved to increasingly
    larger-sized substrates. Applied’s latest generation (Gen)
    10 systems can process substrates sized at approximately 2.85 x
    3.05 meters, with each substrate enabling the production of up
    to six65-inchLCD
    TV screens. These Gen-10 systems include the AKT-90K PECVD and
    the Gen-10 AKT-90K EBT products.



Energy
    and Environmental Solutions Segment



The Energy and Environmental Solutions segment includes
    manufacturing solutions for the generation and conservation of
    energy. To increase the conversion efficiency and yields of
    solar PV devices, Applied offers manufacturing solutions for
    wafer-based crystalline silicon (c-Si) and glass based thin film
    applications.



Applied’s portfolio of solar PV cell fabrication
    technologies has made it a leading supplier of c-Si
    manufacturing systems worldwide. Key benefits of these systems
    are high-productivity, advanced ultra-thin wafer handling, and
    extensive automation, helping customers to lower the cost per
    watt of electricity from solar PVs. Applied offers a
    comprehensive line of automated metallization and test systems
    for c-Si cell manufacturing. The Applied Baccini systems offer
    high-precision printing capability designed to increase the
    efficiency of c-Si solar cells. Applied also offers systems for
    slicing and squaring wafers from silicon ingots. The high
    productivity and performance of the Applied HCT B5 platform have
    made it the leading wire saw used by solar PV cell manufacturers
    worldwide. The Company also offers the Applied HCT Diamond
    Squarertmsystem, which uses diamond wire technology to eliminate the need
    for abrasive slurry and reduces electricity consumption.



Thin film solar technologies are ideally suited for large-scale
    applications, such as utility scale solar farms and commercial
    rooftops, where space is not a constraint. The Company offers
    the Applied AKT PECVD system for depositing low temperature
    polysilicon films for thin film applications. Applied also
    offers the
    ATONtmin-line deposition system, a large-area platform for
    high-quality deposition and high-throughput in both c-Si and
    thin film solar PV manufacturing.



Prior to the third quarter of fiscal 2010, Applied offered its
    fully-integrated
    SunFabtmproduction line for manufacturing large-size thin film panels.
    In the third quarter of fiscal 2010, Applied restructured its
    Energy and Environmental Solutions segment in response to
    adverse market conditions for thin film solar, including delays
    in utility-scale solar adoption, solar panel manufacturers’
    challenges in obtaining affordable capital, changes and
    uncertainty in government renewable energy policies, and
    competitive pressure from c-Si solar technologies. As part of
    the restructuring, Applied discontinued sales to new customers
    of its fully-integrated SunFab lines, but will offer individual
    tools for thin film solar manufacturing. Applied is supporting
    existing SunFab line customers with services, upgrades and
    capacity increases through its Applied Global Services segment
    and will continue RD&E efforts to improve thin film panel
    efficiency and high-productivity deposition.



Other products offered under the Energy and Environmental
    Solutions segment includeroll-to-roll,vacuum web coating systems for high-performance deposition of a
    range of films on flexible substrates for functional, aesthetic
    or optical properties. The Company’s Applied
    Topmettm4450, is the world’s largest and fastestroll-to-rollmachine for depositing ultra-thin aluminum films for flexible
    packaging applications.



Backlog



Applied manufactures systems to meet demand represented by order
    backlog and customer commitments. Backlog consists of:
    (1) orders for which written authorizations have been
    accepted and assigned shipment dates are within the next
    12 months, or shipment has occurred but revenue has not
    been recognized; (2) contractual service





revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next
    12 months; and (3) orders for SunFab lines that are
    anticipated to be recognized as revenue within the next
    12 months.



Applied’s backlog increased from $2.7 billion at
    October 25, 2009 to $3.2 billion at October 31,
    2010. Applied’s backlog on any particular date is not
    necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding
    period. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel
    orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation
    penalties. Delays in delivery schedulesand/ora
    reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a
    material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results
    of operations.



Manufacturing,
    Raw Materials and Supplies





Research,
    Development and Engineering



Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued
    development of new products. Applied’s significant
    investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E)
    has generally enabled it to deliver new products and
    technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus
    allowing customers to incorporate these products into their
    manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology
    selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers
    to design systems and processes that meet their planned
    technical and production requirements. Product development and
    engineering organizations are located primarily in the United
    States, as well as in Europe, Israel, Taiwan and China. In
    addition, Applied outsources certain RD&E activities, some
    of which are performed outside the United States, primarily in
    India. Process support and customer demonstration laboratories
    are located in the United States, China, Taiwan, Europe and
    Israel.



Applied’s investments in RD&E for product development
    and engineering programs to create or improve products and
    technologies over the last three years were as follows:
    $1.1 billion (12 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2010,
    $934 million (19 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2009
    and $1.1 billion (14 percent of net sales) in fiscal
    2008. Applied has spent an average of 13 percent of net
    sales in RD&E over the last five years. In addition to
    RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains
    ongoing programs for automation control systems, materials
    research and environmental control that are applicable to its
    products.



In fiscal 2010, Applied developed new technology to enable
    next-generation 22nm and below chip designs. These systems were
    designed to help customers continue their drive to pack more
    transistors in the same space using using high-k/metal gate
    technologies and double patterning processes. Applied also
    developed technology for through-silicon vias (TSVs), an
    emerging solution for interconnecting three dimensional chip
    stacks to provide better device performance, lower power
    consumption and the integration of heterogeneous devices. In the
    solar PV area, Applied continued the development of its
    precision wafering and cell manufacturing products for lowering
    the cost of producing solar-generated electricity through
    advanced crystalline silicon technology. RD&E also included
    activities to develop products that enable lower-cost production
    of solar energy, production of light emitting diode (LED)
    devices for display backlighting and general lighting, and other
    products to enable energy conservation.





In fiscal 2009, Applied focused on developing systems for
    semiconductor customers’ new chip designs with 32nm and
    below geometries, including systems to enable faster transistors
    using strain engineering andhigh-k/metalgate technologies, as well as double patterning processes that
    enable customers to extend their existing 193nm lithography
    tools through additional technology generations. Applied also
    focused on developing technology for manufacturing next
    generation displays. RD&E also included activities to
    develop products that enable lower-cost production of solar
    energy and other products to enable energy conservation.



In fiscal 2008, Applied focused on the development of processes
    and systems for the continued scaling of semiconductor devices.
    Applied pioneered a self-aligned double patterning approach that
    can enable 22nm and below device fabrication using conventional
    optical lithography. The Company also developed technology for
    the implementation of through-silicon vias. Efforts were also
    focused on developing the systems and technology to reduce thecost-per-wattof solar electricity.



Marketing
    and Sales



Net sales by geographic region, which are attributed according
    to the location of customers’ facilities, were as follows:



201020092008($)(%)($)(%)($)(%)(In millions, except percentages)Taiwan2,750291,026211,83722Korea1,76819664131,30916China1,557166351378010Japan7688718141,21815Southeast Asia578625255166Asia Pacific7,421783,295665,66069North America(*)1,14712966191,52019Europe981107531594912Total9,5491005,0141008,129100









(*)Primarily the United States.



Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied
    markets and sells products worldwide through a direct sales
    force. Approximately 88 percent of Applied’s fiscal
    2010 net sales were to regions outside of the
    United States.



General economic conditions impact Applied’s business and
    financial results. From time to time, the markets in which
    products are sold experience weak economic conditions that may
    negatively impact sales. Applied’s business is usually not
    seasonal in nature, but it is highly cyclical, based on capital
    equipment investment by major semiconductor, flat panel display,
    solar PV and other manufacturers. Customers’ expenditures
    depend on many factors, including: anticipated market demand and
    pricing for semiconductors, LCDs, solar cells and modules, and
    other substrates; the development of new technologies;
    customers’ factory utilization; capital resources and
    financing; and global and regional economic conditions.



Applied manages its business and reports financial results based
    on the segments described above, but does not allocate certain
    sales and marketing costs to the segments.



Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and
    long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic
    regions is included in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. The following companies accounted





for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales in
    2010, 2009,and/or2008,
    which were for products in multiple reportable segments.



201020092008Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.14%10%16%Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited11%**Intel Corporation*12%*









*Less than 10%.



Competition



The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive
    and characterized by rapid technological change. Applied’s
    ability to compete generally depends on its ability to timely
    commercialize its technology, continually improve its products
    and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer
    requirements. Significant competitive factors include technical
    capability and differentiation, productivity and
    cost-effectiveness. The importance of these factors varies
    according to customers’ needs, including product mix and
    respective product requirements, applications, and the timing
    and circumstances of purchasing decisions. Substantial
    competition exists in all areas of Applied’s business.
    Competitors range from small companies that compete with a
    single productand/orin a
    single region, to global, diversified companies with a range of
    products. Applied’s ability to compete requires a high
    level of investment in RD&E, marketing and sales and global
    customer support activities. Management believes that many of
    Applied’s products have strong competitive positions.



The competitive environment for each segment is described below:





Products and services within the Applied Global Services segment
    are characterized by demanding worldwide service requirements
    and a diverse group of numerous competitors. To compete
    effectively, Applied offers products and services to reduce
    costs, improve productivity, and lessen the environmental impact
    of customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive
    factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level
    of technical service and support. The importance of these
    factors varies according to customers’ needs and the type
    of products or services offered. Customers with more significant
    operationsand/orexpertise may require fewer service products than customers who
    place greater reliance on an outsourcing model. Industry
    conditions that affected Applied Global Services’ sales of
    spares and services in fiscal 2010 were principally
    semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts as well as
    additions to the tool installed base.



Products in the Display segment are subject to strong
    competition from a number of major competitors. Applied holds
    established market positions with its technically-differentiated
    thin film technology (TFT)-LCD manufacturing solutions for
    PECVD, color filter PVD and TFT array testing, although its
    market position could





change quickly due to customers’ evolving requirements. The
    competitive environment for Applied’s Display segment in
    fiscal 2010 was characterized by increased capacity requirements
    for larger flat panel televisions and growing global demand for
    touch screen devices.



Applied’s products within the Energy and Environmental
    Solutions segment compete in diverse market areas, including
    equipment to make solar PV cells and modules. All of these
    markets are driven by extreme pressure to reduce overall
    production costs and improve cell performance. In this segment,
    Applied offers products primarily for c-Si wafer-based
    applications. Applied competes with many other companies, some
    of which have more experience with solar applications and some
    of which are just entering the solar equipment business.



Patents
    and Licenses



Management believes that Applied’s competitive position
    significantly depends upon the Company’s research,
    development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing
    capabilities, and not just on its patent position. However,
    protection of Applied’s technological assets through
    enforcement of its intellectual property rights, including
    patents, is important. Therefore, Applied’s practice is to
    file patent applications in the United States and other
    countries for inventions that Applied considers significant.
    Applied has a substantial number of patents in the United States
    and other countries, and additional applications are pending for
    new inventions. Although Applied does not consider its business
    materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied
    and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a
    whole, are a significant element of Applied’s business. In
    addition to patents, Applied also possesses other intellectual
    property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and
    copyrights.



Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements
    with other companies when management determines that it is in
    the Company’s best interest to do so. Applied pays
    royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use,
    in several of its products, of certain patented technologies
    that are licensed to Applied for the life of the patents.
    Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third
    parties. Royalties received from or paid to third parties have
    not been, and are not expected to be, material to Applied’s
    consolidated results of operations.



In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives
    and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In
    responding to such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful
    for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights.
    However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights
    will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms,
    or at all. If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims,
    obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms,and/orsuccessfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.



Environmental
    Matters



Applied maintains a number of environmental, health and safety
    programs that are primarily preventive in nature. As part of
    these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance
    with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, Applied has
    trained personnel to conduct investigations of any
    environmental, health or safety incidents, including, without
    limitation, spills, releases or possible contamination.



Compliance with federal, state and local environmental, health
    and safety provisions, including, without limitation, those
    regulating the discharge of materials into the environment,
    remedial agreements and other actions relating to the
    environment have not had, and are not expected to have, a
    material effect on Applied’s capital expenditures,
    competitive position, financial condition or results of
    operations.



The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health
    and safety activities can be found in the Company’s
    Citizenship Report on its website athttp://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/environment.htmlwith additional information athttp://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/cr/sustainability.The Citizenship Report is updated periodically. This website
    address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.
    None of the information on Applied’s website is part of
    thisForm 10-Kor is incorporated by reference herein.



Employees



At October 31, 2010, Applied employed approximately 13,000
    regular employees and 1,325 temporary employees. In the
    high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled
    employees is intense. Applied believes





that its future success is highly dependent upon its continued
    ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees.
    There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract,
    hire, assimilate, motivate and retain a sufficient number of
    qualified employees.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The following table and notes set forth information about
    Applied’s executive officers as of October 31, 2010:



Name of IndividualPositionMichael R. Splinter(1)Chairman of Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive
    OfficerGeorge S. Davis(2)Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerMark R. Pinto(3)Executive Vice President, General Manager Energy and
    Environmental Solutions and Display, Chief Technology OfficerRandhir Thakur(4)Executive Vice President, General Manager Silicon SystemsJoseph Flanagan(5)Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Supply ChainManfred Kerschbaum(6)Senior Vice President, Chief of StaffJoseph J. Sweeney(7)Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryChris Bowers(8)Group Vice President, Corporate InitiativesRon Kifer(9)Group Vice President, Chief Information OfficerMary Humiston(10)Group Vice President, Global Human ResourcesCharlie Pappis(11)Group Vice President, General Manager Applied Global ServicesThomas S. Timko(12)Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief
    Accounting Officer











(1)Mr. Splinter, age 60, was named President, Chief
    Executive Officer and a member of Applied’s Board of
    Directors upon joining Applied in April 2003, and he has been
    Chairman of the Board of Directors since March 2009. Prior to
    joining Applied, Mr. Splinter worked for nearly
    20 years at Intel Corporation (Intel), most recently as
    Executive Vice President and Director of the Sales and Marketing
    Group, responsible for sales and operations worldwide.
    Mr. Splinter previously held various executive positions at
    Intel, including Executive Vice President and General Manager of
    the Technology and Manufacturing Group.



(2)Mr. Davis, age 53, was promoted to Executive Vice
    President, Chief Financial Officer in December 2006, after being
    appointed Group Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
    effective November 2006. Previously, he had been Group Vice
    President, General Manager, Corporate Business Development since
    February 2005. From November 1999 to February 2005,
    Mr. Davis served as Vice President and Corporate Treasurer,
    where he managed Applied’s worldwide treasury operations
    and was responsible for investments, tax, financial risk
    management, and trade and export matters. Mr. Davis joined
    Applied in 1999.



(3)Dr. Pinto, age 51, has served as Executive Vice
    President since joining Applied in January 2004. His current
    responsibility is General Manager, Energy and Environmental
    Solutions and Display as well as corporate Chief Technology
    Officer. Prior to joining Applied, Dr. Pinto spent
    19 years with Bell Laboratories and the Lucent
    Microelectronics Group, which later became Agere Systems Inc.,
    most recently as Vice President of the Analog Products Division.
    Dr. Pinto holds a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from
    Stanford University.



(4)Dr. Thakur, age 48, has held the position of Executive
    Vice President, General Manager Silicon Systems since October
    2009. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, General Manager,
    Thin Film Solar and Display. He was appointed Senior Vice
    President, General Manager, Strategic Operations when he
    rejoined Applied in May 2008. He previously was with Applied
    from 2000 to 2005 in a variety of executive roles including
    Group Vice President, General Manager for Front End Products.
    From September 2005 to May 2008, Dr. Thakur served as
    Executive Vice President of Technology and Fab Operations at
    SanDisk Corporation and as head of SanDisk’s worldwide
    operations. Prior to joining Applied in 2000, Dr. Thakur
    served in leadership roles at Steag Electronic Systems AG and
    Micron Technology, Inc.









(5)Mr. Flanagan, age 39, was appointed Senior Vice
    President, Worldwide Operations and Supply Chain in February
    2010. Prior to joining Applied, Mr. Flanagan held executive
    positions in global operations for Nortel Networks Corporation,
    including president of Nortel Business Services from August 2009
    to February 2010. Previously, Mr. Flanagan held a number of
    positions from 1993 to 2006 at General Electric.



(6)Mr. Kerschbaum, age 56, was named Senior Vice
    President, Chief of Staff in September 2009. Prior to that he
    served as Senior Vice President, General Manager, Applied Global
    Services from January 2005 to September 2009.
    Mr. Kerschbaum was Senior Vice President, Global Operations
    from July 2004 to January 2005 and from October 2002 to May
    2003. From May 2003 to July 2004, he was Group Vice President,
    Foundation Engineering and Operations. From January 1996 to
    October 2002, he held various positions in Applied Materials
    North America, most recently as Group Vice President, General
    Manager, Applied Materials North America.
    Mr. Kerschbaum has served in various other operations,
    customer service and engineering positions since joining Applied
    in 1983.



(7)Mr. Sweeney, age 62, has held the position of Senior
    Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
    Applied since July 2005, with responsibility for global legal
    affairs, intellectual property and security. From April 2002 to
    July 2005, Mr. Sweeney was Group Vice President, Legal
    Affairs and Intellectual Property, and Corporate Secretary.
    Mr. Sweeney joined Applied in 1993.



(8)Mr. Bowers, age 50, has been Group Vice President,
    Corporate Initiatives since March 2008. From March 2008 to
    September 2009, he was Group Vice President and General Manager
    of Corporate Services and Chief of Staff, working closely with
    executives on effective business strategy execution. Prior to
    joining Applied, Mr. Bowers was a partner at the Hay Group,
    where he held various business leadership and consulting
    positions from 1992 to 2008. Most recently, he was Director of
    Client Services in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and a
    member of the Hay Group Global R&D Council.



(9)Mr. Kifer, age 59, joined Applied in May 2006 as Group
    Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Global Information
    Services. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Kifer spent five
    years with DHL in various executive management roles, most
    recently as the Senior Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer for North America, Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets.



(10)Ms. Humiston, age 45, was named Group Vice President,
    Global Human Resources, in May 2010. Prior to that, she served
    as the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources for both the
    Energy and Environmental Solutions and Display groups. Prior to
    joining Applied, Ms. Humiston was Vice President of Human
    Resources at Honeywell International Inc. from October 2002 to
    June 2008, with responsibility for various corporate and
    international organizations. She previously held executive
    positions with PeoplePC, Gap, Inc. and General Electric.



(11)Mr. Pappis, age 50, has been Group Vice President and
    General Manager of Applied Global Services since September 2009.
    He previously held positions in Applied Global Services as
    Corporate Vice President and General Manager for the
    Semiconductor Service Solutions group and as general manager for
    Equipment Productivity Services. He has held various other
    management positions since joining Applied in 1986.



(12)Mr. Timko, age 42, joined Applied in March 2010 as
    Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief
    Accounting Officer. From June 2006 until March 2010,
    Mr. Timko was with Delphi Automotive LLP, where he was most
    recently Chief Accounting Officer and Controller. He served as
    Assistant Controller for The Interpublic Group of Companies,
    Inc. from December 2004 to June 2006, and previously at Dover
    Corporation. Mr. Timko began his career in 1991 with
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC and is a certified public accountant.



Available
    Information



Applied’s website ishttp://www.appliedmaterials.com.Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its
    website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any
    amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable
    after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing
    them to, the SEC. This website address is intended to be an
    inactive textual reference only. None of the information on
    Applied’s website is part of thisForm 10-Kor is incorporated by reference herein.





