Item 1:Business

Incorporated in 1967, Applied is a Delaware corporation. A global company with a broad set of capabilities in materials engineering, Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the global semiconductor, display, solar photovoltaic (PV) and related industries. With its diverse technology capabilities, Applied delivers products and services that improve device performance, yield and cost. Applied’s customers include manufacturers of semiconductor chips, liquid crystal and other displays, solar PV cells, and other electronic devices. These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October.

Applied operates in four reportable segments: Silicon Systems, Applied Global Services, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions. A summary of financial information for each reportable segment is found in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A discussion of factors that could affect operations is set forth under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Net sales by reportable segment for the past three fiscal years were as follows:

201520142013(In millions, except percentages)Silicon Systems$6,13564%$5,97866%$4,77564%Applied Global Services2,53126%2,20024%2,02327%Display7808%6157%5387%Energy and Environmental Solutions2132%2793%1732%Total$9,659100%$9,072100%$7,509100%



Silicon Systems

Applied’s Silicon Systems segment develops, manufactures and sells a wide range of manufacturing equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips, also referred to as integrated circuits (ICs). The Silicon Systems segment includes semiconductor capital equipment for deposition, etch, ion implantation, rapid thermal processing, chemical mechanical planarization, metrology and inspection, and wafer packaging. The majority of Applied's new equipment sales are to leading integrated device manufacturers and foundries worldwide.

Transistor and Interconnect

Applied’s transistor and interconnect products and technologies have enabled multiple generations of device scaling from planar transistors to today’s 3D multi-gate FinFET transistors. Applied offers products and technologies for transistor and interconnect fabrication, including epitaxy, ion implantation, oxidation and nitridation, rapid thermal processing, chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, chemical mechanical planarization and electrochemical deposition. Many of these process steps are used multiple times throughout the semiconductor chip fabrication process.















Transistor and Interconnect TechnologiesProduct(s)

EpitaxyEpitaxial silicon (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base for the device circuity. Epi technology is used in an increasing number of IC devices in both the wafer surface and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed.Centura RP Epi

Ion ImplantIon implantation is a key technology for forming transistors and is used many times during chip fabrication. During ion implantation, wafers are bombarded by a beam of electrically-charged ions, called dopants, which change the electrical properties of the exposed surface films.VIISta Systems

Oxidation/NitridationApplied’s systems provide critical oxidation steps - like memory gate oxide, shallow trench isolation and liner oxide - for advanced device scaling.Vantage, Radiance and Centura Systems

Rapid Thermal Processing (RTP)RTP is used primarily for annealing, which modifies the properties of deposited films. Applied’s single-wafer RTP systems are also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films.Vantage Systems

Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD)PVD is used to deposit high quality metal films with low resistivity for contact and interconnect devices. Applications include metal gate, silicides, contact liner/barrier, interconnect copper barrier seed and metal hard mask.Endura Systems

Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD)CVD is used to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid material.Endura and Centura Systems

Chemical Mechanical Planarization (CMP)CMP is used to planarize a wafer surface, a process that allows subsequent photolithography patterning and material deposition steps to occur with greater accuracy, resulting in more highly uniform film layers with minimal thickness variations.Reflexion Systems

Electrochemical Deposition (ECD)ECD is a process by which metal atoms from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the surface of an immersed object.Raider Platform



Patterning and Packaging

Applied offers patterning and packaging products and systems that enable the transfer of patterns onto device structures, making it possible to etch masks used for photolithography, and perform deposition, etching, and related processes. These systems and technologies address challenges resulting from shrinking pattern dimensions and the complexity in vertical stacking found in today’s most advanced semiconductor devices.

Patterning and Packaging TechnologiesProduct(s)Atomic Layer Deposition (ALD)ALD technology enables customers to fabricate thin films of either conducting or insulating material with uniform coverage in nanometer-sized structures.Olympia SystemChemical Vapor Deposition (CVD)CVD is used to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid material.Producer SystemsEtchEtching is used many times throughout the IC manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the surface of a wafer. Applied offers systems for etching dielectric, metal, and silicon films to meet the requirements of advanced processing.Centris and Producer Systems









Imaging and Process Control

Applied offers a suite of metrology, inspection and review systems for front- and back-end-of-line applications. These systems’ imaging capabilities and algorithms employ optical and e-beam technologies to meet the most advanced technical demands, such as self-aligned double and quad patterning, extreme ultraviolet layers, measurement-intensive optimal proximity correction mask qualification, and emerging 3D architectures. Applied delivers leading-edge capabilities that enable chipmakers to establish accurate statistical process control, ramp up production runs rapidly, and achieve consistently high production yields.

Imaging and Process Control TechnologiesProduct(s)Metrology and InspectionMetrology and inspection tools are used to locate, measure, and analyze critical defects and features on the wafer during various stages of the fabrication processes. Applied enables customers to characterize and control critical dimension (CD) and defect issues, especially at advanced generation technology nodes.SEMVision G6 Defect AnalysisUVision 7 InspectionVeritySEM 5i MetrologyAera4 Mask Inspection



Applied Global Services

The Applied Global Services (AGS) segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and solar products. Customer demand for products and services is fulfilled through a global distribution system with trained service engineers located in close proximity to customer sites in more than a dozen countries to support approximately 33,000 installed Applied semiconductor, display and solar manufacturing systems worldwide. Applied offers the following general types of services and products under the Applied Global Services segment.



AGS Solutions and TechnologyCertified ServicesA comprehensive service product portfolio that combines service technology and tool specific performance commitments in order to optimize customer factory productivity.Fab ConsultingExperts using advanced analytical tools to solve production problems that have the greatest impact on customer fab productivity.Parts ProgramsSpare parts portfolio targets key manufacturing challenges and balances inventory cost and risk to efficiently meet customer fab requirements.Subfab EquipmentApplied SubFab solutions lower costs, save energy, reduce environmental impact, and meet Environmental Protection Agency reporting regulations for greenhouse gas emissions.Legacy EquipmentComprehensive 200mm equipment and upgrades portfolio to address a full spectrum of production needs and extend tool lifetime. Applied legacy equipment supports new technology for a broad variety of devices including analog, power, and MEMS.Automation SoftwareAutomation software coordinates and streamlines every aspect of a factory-the processes, equipment and people-to provide competitive advantage to customers.











Display

The Display segment is comprised of products for manufacturing liquid crystal displays (LCDs), organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs), and other display technologies for TVs, personal computers (PCs), tablets, smart phones, and other consumer-oriented devices. While similarities exist between the technologies utilized in semiconductor and display fabrication, the most significant differences are in the size and composition of the substrate. Substrates used to manufacture display panels are typically glass, although newer flexible materials are entering the market. Display industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs and high resolution displays for mobile devices. The Display segment offers a variety of technologies and products, including:

Display TechnologiesProduct(s)Array TestLCD display substrates are inspected at many stages of production to maximize yield, minimize scrap, optimize equipment utilization, and monitor manufacturing processes. At the completion of the array stage, the performance of the millions of individual pixels on each display is tested.Electron Beam Array TesterChemical Vapor Deposition (CVD)During CVD processing, gases containing material atoms or molecules are introduced into the process chamber. The gases form reactive radicals or ions, which undergo chemical reactions to form thin films on the heated substrate.AKT PECVD SystemsPhysical Vapor Deposition (PVD)PVD is used to deposit high quality films of metals, alloys, transparent conductors and semiconductors.  In Display, these films are used for contact, interconnect, transparent electrodes and transistor materials in display backplanes, as well as for transparent electrodes in color filters and touch panels.AKT Aristo and PiVot Systems



Energy and Environmental Solutions

The Energy and Environmental Solutions segment includes products for fabricating crystalline-silicon (c-Si) solar PV cells, as well as high throughput roll-to-roll deposition equipment for flexible electronics, packaging and other applications. The technologies and products offered in the Energy and Environmental Solutions segment include:

Energy and Environmental TechnologiesProduct(s)Solar:Cell ManufacturingC-Si cell manufacturing involves multiple steps, one of which is screen printing the solar cell contact structures. Applied’s printers are the industry-leading systems for this process step. Applied’s Fine Line Double Print process enables solar manufacturers to produce cells with less paste, better quality and higher cell efficiencies than conventional single print cells.Baccini SystemsRoll-to-Roll WEB Coating:The Roll-to-Roll coating systems provide production solutions for packaging, flexible electronics and security industries. WEB systems utilize physical vapor deposition, thermal evaporation, chemical vapor deposition, and e-beam technology to deposit tiny layers of metal onto flexible substrates.TopBeam, TopMet and SmartWeb Systems









Backlog

Applied manufactures systems to meet demand represented by order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog consists of: (1) orders for which written authorizations have been accepted and assigned shipment dates are within the next 12 months, or shipment has occurred but revenue has not been recognized; and (2) contractual service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months.

Backlog by reportable segment as ofOctober 25, 2015andOctober 26, 2014was as follows:

20152014(In millions, except percentages)Silicon Systems$1,72055%$1,40048%Applied Global Services81226%77527%Display52516%59320%Energy and Environmental Solutions853%1495%Total$3,142100%$2,917100%

Applied’s backlog on any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any future periods, due to the potential for customer changes in delivery schedules or order cancellations. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Delays in delivery schedules or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results of operations.

Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies

Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembly, test and integration of various proprietary and commercial parts, components and subassemblies that are used to manufacture systems. Applied has implemented a distributed manufacturing model under which manufacturing and supply chain activities are conducted in various countries, including Germany, Israel, Italy, Singapore, Taiwan, the United States and other countries in Asia. Applied uses numerous vendors, including contract manufacturers, to supply parts and assembly services for the manufacture and support of its products, including some systems being completed at customer sites.

Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained from only a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied seeks to reduce costs and to lower the risks of manufacturing and service interruptions by selecting and qualifying alternate suppliers for key parts; monitoring the financial condition of key suppliers; maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts; qualifying new parts on a timely basis; and ensuring quality and performance of parts.











Research, Development and Engineering

Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued development of new products, including products that enable expansion into new markets. Applied's significant investments in research, development and engineering (RD&E) must generally enable it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans during early-stage technology selection. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems and processes that meet their planned technical and production requirements.

Applied’s product development and engineering organizations are located primarily in the United States, as well as in in Canada, China, Europe, India, Israel, Singapore and Taiwan. In addition, certain outsourced RD&E activities, process support and customer demonstrations are performed in the United States, India, China, Singapore and Taiwan.

Applied's investments in RD&E for product development and engineering programs over the last three fiscal years were as follows:$1.5 billion(15 percentof net sales) in fiscal2015,$1.4 billion(16 percentof net sales) in fiscal2014, and$1.3 billion(18 percentof net sales) in fiscal2013. Applied has spent an average of14percent of net sales in RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs for automation control systems, materials research, and environmental control that are applicable to its products.

Marketing and Sales

Net sales by geographic region for the past three fiscal years, determined by the location of customers' facilities to which products were shipped, were as follows:

201520142013(In millions, except percentages)Taiwan$2,60027%$2,70230%$2,64035%China1,62317%1,60818%78711%Korea1,65417%96510%92412%Japan1,07811%8179%6859%Southeast Asia4324%3564%3204%Asia Pacific7,38776%6,44871%5,35671%United States1,63017%1,96622%1,47320%Europe6427%6587%6809%Total$9,659100%$9,072100%$7,509100%



Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells products worldwide almost entirely through a direct sales force.

General economic conditions can impact the company’s business and financial results. Applied’s business is based on capital equipment investments by major semiconductor, display, solar PV and other manufacturers, and is subject to cyclical industry conditions. Customers’ expenditures depend on many factors, including: anticipated market demand and pricing for semiconductors, display technologies and solar cells, and other electronic devices; the development of new technologies; customers’ factory utilization; capital resources and financing; government policies and incentives; and global and regional economic conditions. In addition, a significant driver in the semiconductor and display industries is end-demand for mobile consumer products, which is characterized by seasonality that impacts the timing of customer investments in manufacturing equipment and, in turn, Applied’s business.

Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic regions is included in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following companies accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales in each fiscal year, which were for products in multiple reportable segments.



201520142013Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.18%12%13%Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited15%21%27%









Competition

The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Applied’s ability to compete generally depends on its ability to timely commercialize its technology, continually improve its products, and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors include technical capability and differentiation, productivity, cost-effectiveness and the ability to support a  global customer base. The importance of these factors varies according to customers’ needs, including product mix and respective product requirements, applications, and the timing and circumstances of purchasing decisions. Substantial competition exists in all areas of Applied’s business. Competitors range from small companies that compete in a single region, which may benefit from policies and regulations that favor domestic companies, to global, diversified companies. Applied’s ability to compete requires a high level of investment in RD&E, marketing and sales, and global customer support activities. Management believes that many of Applied’s products have strong competitive positions.

The competitive environment for each segment is described below.

Products and services within the Applied Global Services segment complement Silicon Systems, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions segments’ products in markets that are characterized by demanding worldwide service requirements and a diverse group of numerous competitors. To compete effectively, Applied offers products and services to improve tool performance, lower overall cost of ownership, and increase the productivity and energy efficiency of customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level of technical service and support. The importance of these factors varies according to customers’ needs and the type of products or services offered. Industry conditions that affected Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services in fiscal 2015 were principally semiconductor manufacturers' wafer starts and factory utilization rates.

Products in the Display segment are generally subject to strong competition from a number of major competitors primarily in Asia. Applied holds established market positions with its technically-differentiated LCD and OLED manufacturing solutions for PECVD, color filter PVD, PVD array, PVD touch panel, and TFT array testing, although its market position could change quickly due to customers' evolving requirements. The competitive environment for the Display segment in fiscal 2015 was characterized by continued demand for manufacturing equipment for TVs and high-end mobile devices, although this sector remains susceptible to highly cyclical conditions. Important factors affecting the competitive position of Applied's Display products include: industry trends, Applied's ability to innovate and develop new products, and the extent to which Applied's products are technically-differentiated, as well as which customers within a highly concentrated customer base are making capital equipment investments and Applied's existing position at these customers.

Applied's products within the Energy and Environmental Solutions segment compete in several diverse market areas, including the c-Si solar equipment market. The solar equipment market has been characterized by significant pressure to reduce customers' overall production costs and increase conversion efficiency. While end-market demand for solar PVs has been robust over the last several years, investment levels in capital equipment remained low in fiscal 2015. With respect to its c-Si equipment products, Applied competes with a number of other companies, some of which have significant experience with solar applications and some of which are new entrants to the solar equipment market. The solar industry downturn has affected many of Applied's competitors and customers adversely, with some companies going through extensive financial and organizational restructuring, and in some instances ceasing operations.











Patents and Licenses

Applied’s competitive position significantly depends upon its research, development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities, as well as its patent position. Protection of Applied's technology assets through enforcement of its intellectual property rights, including patents, is important. Applied’s practice is to file patent applications in the United States and other countries for inventions that it considers significant. Applied has approximately 10,200 patents in the United States and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new inventions. Although Applied does not consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a whole, are a significant element of its business. In addition to its patents, Applied possesses other intellectual property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets, and copyrights.

Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when it is determined to be in its best interest. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patented technologies. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from or paid to third parties have not been, and are not expected to be, material to Applied’s consolidated results of operations.

In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In responding to such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Environmental Matters

Applied maintains a number of environmental, health, and safety programs that are primarily preventative in nature. As part of these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, Applied has trained personnel to conduct investigations of any environmental, health, or safety incidents, including, but not limited to, spills, releases, or possible contamination.

Compliance with federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, remedial agreements, and other actions relating to the environment have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on Applied’s capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition, or results of operations.

The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health and safety activities can be found in Applied’s latest Citizenship Report on its website at http://www.appliedmaterials.com/company/corporate-responsibility/reports. The Citizenship Report is updated periodically. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, Applied’s website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein.

Employees

AtOctober 25, 2015, Applied employed approximately14,600regular employees and900temporary employees. In the high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon its continued ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees.









Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table and notes set forth information about Applied’s executive officers:

Name of IndividualPositionGary E. Dickerson(1)President, Chief Executive OfficerGinetto Addiego(2)Senior Vice President, EngineeringRobert J. Halliday(3)Senior Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerThomas F. Larkins(4)Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryOmkaram Nalamasu(5)Senior Vice President, Chief Technology OfficerAli Salehpour(6)Senior Vice President, General Manager, New Markets and Service GroupCharles Read(7)Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer

(1)Mr. Dickerson, age 58, was named President of Applied in June 2012 and appointed Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors in September 2013. Before joining Applied, he served as Chief Executive Officer and a director of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian) from 2004  until its acquisition by Applied in November 2011. Prior to Varian, Mr. Dickerson served 18 years with KLA-Tencor Corporation (KLA-Tencor), a supplier of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related industries, where he held a variety of operations and product development roles, including President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Dickerson started his semiconductor career in manufacturing and engineering management at General Motors' Delco Electronics Division and then AT&T Technologies.

(2)Dr. Addiego, age 56, has been Senior Vice President, Engineering since rejoining Applied in March 2014. He previously was with Applied from 1996 to 2005, leading various product groups as well as global organizations, including Global Operations, Manufacturing, Foundation Engineering, and Information Technology. From March 2011 to March 2014, Dr. Addiego was President and Chief Operating Officer of Ultra Clean Technology Corp., a supplier of critical subsystems for the semiconductor capital equipment, medical device, energy, research, and flat panel industries. From February 2005 to March 2011, Dr. Addiego worked at Novellus Systems, Inc., a provider of advanced process equipment for the semiconductor industry, where he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer and Executive Vice President of Corporate Operations.

(3)Mr. Halliday, age 61, has been Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Applied since February 2013. He previously served as a Group Vice President and General Manager in Applied’s Silicon Systems segment following the completion of Applied’s acquisition of Varian in November 2011. Mr. Halliday had served as Chief Financial Officer of Varian since 2001 and as an Executive Vice President of Varian since 2004. He was Varian's Treasurer from November 2002 to October 2006 and from February 2009 to February 2010.

(4)Mr. Larkins, age 54, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Applied since November 2012. Previously, Mr. Larkins was employed by Honeywell International Inc., a diversified global technology and manufacturing company, where he was Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Deputy General Counsel from 2002 until joining Applied.  Mr. Larkins served in various other positions at Honeywell (formerly AlliedSignal) after joining the company in 1997.

(5)Dr. Nalamasu, age 57, has been Senior Vice President, Chief Technology Officer since June 2013, and President of Applied Ventures, LLC, Applied's venture capital arm, since November 2013. He had served as Group Vice President, Chief Technology Officer from January 2012 to June 2013, and as Corporate Vice President, Chief Technology Officer from January 2011 to January 2012. Upon joining Applied in June 2006 until January 2011, Dr. Nalamasu was an Appointed Vice President of Research and served as Deputy Chief Technology Officer and General Manager for the Advanced Technologies Group. From 2002 to 2006, Dr. Nalamasu was a NYSTAR distinguished professor of Materials Science and Engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where he also served as Vice President of Research from 2005 to 2006. Prior to Rensselaer, Dr. Nalamasu served in several leadership roles at Bell Laboratories.

(6)Mr. Salehpour, age 54, has been Senior Vice President, General Manager, New Markets and Service Group since September 2013. He previously served as Group Vice President, General Manager Energy and Environmental Solutions and Display Business Groups, since joining Applied in November 2012. Prior to Applied, Mr. Salehpour worked at KLA-Tencor for 16 years, where he served as a Senior Vice President and General Manager.

(7)Mr. Read, age 49, has been Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Applied since joining the Company in September 2013. Prior to Applied, Mr. Read worked at Brocade Communications Systems, Inc., a provider of semiconductor and software-based network solutions, since October 2002, where he most recently served as Vice President, Corporate Controller. Prior to Brocade, Mr. Read worked at KPMG LLP, an audit, tax and advisory firm, from 1996 to 2002.









Available Information

Applied’s website is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. The SEC’s website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These website addresses are intended to be an inactive textual references only. None of the information on, or accessible through, these websites is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein.













