
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT


        

        UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

         ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                         Commission File Number 1-6028

                          LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                  Indiana                      35-1140070
          (State of incorporation) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

              200 East Berry Street, Fort Wayne, Indiana 46802-2706
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                  Registrant's telephone number (219) 455-2000

               Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
                                    the Act:



*  Issued by Lincoln  National  Capital I, Lincoln  National Capital II, Lincoln
   National Capital III and Lincoln National Capital IV, respectively.  Payments
   of distributions  and payments on liquidation or redemption are guaranteed by
   Lincoln National Corporation.

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed  by  Section  13 or 15 (d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter  period that the  registrant was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [ x ] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ x ]

As of February 26, 1999,  101,245,205  shares of common stock were  outstanding.
The aggregate market value of such shares (based upon the closing price of these
shares on the New York Stock Exchange) held by nonaffiliates  was  approximately
$9,586,700,000.

Select   materials   from  the  Proxy   Statement  for  the  Annual  Meeting  of
Shareholders,  scheduled  for May 13, 1999 have been  incorporated  by reference
into Part III of this Form 10-K.

The exhibit index to this report is located on page 80.

                                                   Page 1 of 218







                          Lincoln National Corporation

                                                                   Item Page

PART I

 1.  Business
     A.  General Description..........................................         3
     B.  Description of Business Segments:
            Life Insurance and Annuities..............................         3
            Lincoln UK................................................         4
            Reinsurance ..............................................         4
            Investment Management.....................................         4
     C.  Other Matters:
            Regulation................................................         5
            Miscellaneous.............................................         5

 2.  Properties.......................................................         5
 3.  Legal Proceedings................................................         6

 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..............         6

PART II

 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters     6

 6.  Selected Financial Data..........................................         7

 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations...................................         8

 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.......        28

 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data......................        35

 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
         and Financial Disclosures....................................        67

PART III

10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...............        68

11.  Executive Compensation...........................................        69

12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management...        69

13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions...................        69


PART IV

14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K..        69


     Index to Exhibits...............................................         80

     Signatures......................................................         81







PART I

Item 1.  Business

Lincoln National  Corporation  ("LNC") is a holding company.  Through subsidiary
companies, LNC operates multiple insurance and investment management businesses.
During 1998, the collective group of companies adopted "Lincoln Financial Group"
as its  marketing  identity.  LNC is the 39th  largest  (based on  assets)  U.S.
corporation  (1997  Fortune  500,  Largest  U.S.   Corporations,   April  1998).
Operations  are divided  into four  business  segments:  1) Life  Insurance  and
Annuities, 2) Lincoln UK, 3) Reinsurance and 4) Investment Management.  Over the
past five years, segments have been redefined as noted below. Prior to 1997, LNC
had a Property-Casualty  segment.  This segment was sold in 1997 and the related
segment information was reclassified to discontinued  operations (see note 11 to
the consolidated financial statements on page 65). The Lincoln UK segment, which
was added in 1997,  was included in the Life  Insurance  and  Annuities  segment
prior to the adoption of Financial  Accounting  Standard No. 131. The Investment
Management  segment  was added in April of 1995  following  the  acquisition  of
Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. Prior to the sale of 71% of its direct writer
of employee  life-health  coverages in the first quarter of 1994, LNC operated a
business segment entitled  Employee  Life-Health  Benefits.  After the sale, the
earnings  from the 29%  minority  interest  retained  were  included  in  "Other
Operations" as described below. Although one of the subsidiaries held by LNC was
formed  as early as 1905,  LNC  itself  was  formed in 1968.  LNC is an  Indiana
corporation  with its  principal  office at 200 East Berry  Street,  Fort Wayne,
Indiana 46802-2706. As of December 31, 1998, there were 210 persons on the staff
of the LNC holding company. Once the organizational/expense  review discussed in
note  11  to  the  consolidated   financial  statements  on  page  67  is  fully
implemented,  the governance of the holding  company will be under the direction
of a staff of  approximately  65 persons.  Total  employment of Lincoln National
Corporation at December 31, 1998 on a consolidated basis was 8,015.

Revenues,  pre-tax income and assets for LNC's major business segments and other
operations  are  shown in this  Form  10-K  report  as part of the  consolidated
financial  statements (see note 9 to the  consolidated  financial  statements on
page 62). The LNC "Other Operations" category includes the financial data for an
unconsolidated  affiliate  (subsequent to the first quarter of 1994 and prior to
the sale of this unit in October of 1995)  engaged in the  employee  life-health
benefits business, an investment management company that services LNC's business
segments, certain other operations that are not directly related to the business
segments and unallocated  corporate items (i.e.,  corporate  investment  income,
interest  expense  on  short-term  and  long-term   borrowings  and  unallocated
corporate overhead expenses).

Following is a brief description of the four business segments:


1.  Life Insurance and Annuities

The primary  companies  within this business  segment are Lincoln  National Life
Insurance Company ("Lincoln  Life");  First  Penn-Pacific Life Insurance Company
("First Penn"); Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York ("LLANY") and Lincoln
Financial Advisors ("LFA").

Lincoln Life, an Indiana corporation  headquartered in Fort Wayne,  Indiana with
significant  operations  in  Hartford,  Connecticut,  is the 10th  largest  U.S.
stockholder-owned  life  insurance  company,  based on  revenues  (1997  Fortune
Rankings of Largest Life  Insurance  Companies by Revenues,  April 1998) and the
13th largest,  based on assets (Best's Review Life-Health Edition, July 1998). A
network of 58 life  insurance  agencies,  independent  life  insurance  brokers,
insurance  agencies  located  within  financial  institutions  and  specifically
trained employees sell fixed annuities,  variable  annuities,  pension products,
universal life insurance,  variable universal life insurance, term insurance and
other individual  insurance  coverages in most states of the United States.  The
distribution network includes approximately 2,050 career agents, 34,500 brokers,
4,500 bank agents and access to 75,000 stockbrokers and financial planners.

First  Penn  is  an  Indiana  Corporation  headquartered  in  Oakbrook  Terrace,
Illinois.  Its  universal  life,  term life and  deferred  annuity  products are
distributed  through  stockbrokers,   financial  planners,  banks  and  personal
producing  general agents.  It also  manufactures  universal life, term life and
deferred annuity  products for Lincoln Life for distribution  through its career
agents and banks.  These  products  are  marketed  in most  states of the United
States.

LLANY is a New York company,  headquartered in Syracuse,  New York. This company
was formed in  connection  with the  acquisition  of the  tax-qualified  annuity
business  from  UNUM  Corporation's  affiliates  in  1996  (see  note  11 to the
consolidated  financial statements on page 65). LLANY also offers other types of
annuities, pension and life insurance products within the state of New York.






LFA is a  securities  broker/dealer  and a  registered  investment  advisor that
offers a full range of financial and estate planning.  LFA also offers access to
annuities,  401(k) plans,  pensions,  universal  life insurance and other wealth
accumulation and protection products and services.

Other  companies   within  this  segment   include   various  general   business
corporations  that  support the  segment's  sales,  service  and  administrative
efforts.

Approximately 4,285 employees are involved in this business segment.


2.  Lincoln UK

Business in this  segment is conducted  through a series of operating  companies
owned by Lincoln  National (UK) plc.  Lincoln UK is headquartered in Gloucester,
England,  and is licensed  to do business  throughout  the United  Kingdom.  The
principal  products  produced by this  operation,  unit-linked  life and pension
products,  are similar to U.S. produced variable life and annuity products.  The
distribution network includes approximately 1,630 sales representatives and tied
agents.  Lincoln  National (UK) was the 12th largest writer of  unit-linked  new
business  premiums in the UK for 1997 (Money  Management  Magazine-New  Business
Trends, June 1998).

Approximately 1,400 employees are involved in this business segment.


3.  Reinsurance

The  primary  companies  within  this  business  segment  are  Lincoln  National
Reassurance  Company  ("LNRAC"),  Lincoln  National Health & Casualty  Insurance
Company  ("LNH&C"),  Lincoln  Life,  Lincoln  National  Reinsurance  Company Ltd
(Bermuda),  Old Fort  Insurance  Company  Ltd  (Bermuda)  and  Lincoln  National
Reinsurance  Company Ltd  (Barbados).  LNRAC and Lincoln Life offer  reinsurance
programs for individual  life,  group life,  group medical,  disability  income,
personal accident and annuity products to U.S. and international  clients. LNH&C
offers group  medical  products  and  services on both a direct and  reinsurance
basis as well as personal  accident  reinsurance.  The  insurance  companies  in
Bermuda and Barbados offer specialized reinsurance programs for life, health and
annuity  business.  They also offer funded cover  programs to  property-casualty
carriers in the U.S. and select international markets.

This segment provides a broad range of risk management  products and services to
insurance companies, Health Maintenance Organizations, self-funded employers and
other primary market risk accepting  organizations  throughout the United States
and  economically  attractive  international  markets.   Marketing  efforts  are
conducted  primarily  through the efforts of a  reinsurance  sales  staff.  Some
business is  generated  through  reinsurance  intermediaries  and  brokers.  The
reinsurance  organization is one of the leading life-health reinsurers worldwide
measured on gross premiums, net of ceded (Business Insurance, August 1998).

Other  companies in this  business  segment  include  various  general  business
corporations  that  support the  segment's  sales,  service  and  administration
efforts.

Approximately 840 employees are involved in this business segment.


4.  Investment Management

The primary  companies  within this business  segment include  Lincoln  National
Investments, Inc. ("LNI"), Lincoln National Investment Companies, Inc. ("LNIC"),
Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. ("Delaware"), Lynch & Mayer, Inc. ("L&M") and
Vantage  Investment  Advisors  ("Vantage").  LNI and LNIC are intermediate level
holding  companies  that own the operating  companies  within this segment.  The
operating   companies  provide  a  variety  of  asset  management   services  to
institutional  and retail customers  including  pension plans,  endowment funds,
individuals  and  trusts.   These  companies  serve  as  investment  advisor  to
approximately  455  pension  funds  and  other  institutional  accounts;  act as
investment  manager/national  distributor and/or shareholder  services agent for
114 open-end funds; and serve as investment manager for 10 closed-end funds.

Approximately 1,045 employees are involved in this business segment.







LNC's insurance  subsidiaries protect themselves against losses greater than the
amount  they are  willing  to  retain  on any one  risk or  event by  purchasing
reinsurance  from   unaffiliated   insurance   companies  (see  note  7  to  the
consolidated financial statements on page 55.

All  businesses  LNC is  involved  in are highly  competitive  due to the market
structure and the large number of  competitors.  At the end of 1997,  the latest
year for which data is  available,  there  were more than  1,700 life  insurance
companies in the United States.  Lincoln Life is the 10 largest stock and mutual
life  insurance  company in the United  States based on revenues  (1997  Fortune
Ranking of Largest Life  Insurance  Companies by  Revenues,  April 1998).  LNC's
investment management companies were the 35th largest U.S. investment management
group at the end of 1997 (1997 Institutional  Investor 300 Money Managers,  July
1998).

LNC's Life Insurance & Annuities,  Lincoln UK and Reinsurance business segments,
in common with those of other insurance companies, are subject to regulation and
supervision by the states,  territories and countries in which they are licensed
to do business. The laws of these jurisdictions  generally establish supervisory
agencies  with broad  administrative  powers  relative to granting  and revoking
licenses to transact  business,  regulating trade practices,  licensing  agents,
prescribing and approving policy forms,  regulating premium rates for some lines
of business, establishing reserve requirements,  regulating competitive matters,
prescribing the form and content of financial statements and reports, regulating
the type and amount of investments  permitted and prescribing  minimum levels of
capital.  The ability to continue an insurance  business is  dependent  upon the
maintenance of the licenses in the various jurisdictions.

LNC's Investment  Management segment, in common with other investment management
groups,  is subject to regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange
Commission,   National   Association  of  Securities  Dealers,   the  Investment
Management  Regulatory  Organization  ("IMRO"),  the Pennsylvania  Department of
Banking and  jurisdictions of the states,  territories and foreign  countries in
which they are licensed to do business.

Because of the nature of the insurance  and  investment  management  businesses,
there is no single  customer  or group of  customers  upon whom the  business is
dependent.  Factors  such  as  backlog,  raw  materials,   seasonality,  patents
(including trademarks,  licenses,  franchises and any other concessions held) or
environmental  impact  do not  have a  material  effect  upon  such  businesses.
However,  within LNC's  Reinsurance  segment,  Lincoln National Risk Management,
Inc.  ("LNRM") does hold patents for "The Method and Apparatus for  Evaluating a
Potentially Insurable Risk," and "Automated Decision-making  Arrangements." LNRM
markets  multiple  knowledge-based  underwriting  products  that  rely on  these
products.  LNC does not have a  separate  unit that  conducts  market  research.
Research  activities related to new products or services,  or the improvement of
existing  products or services,  are  conducted  within the  business  segments.
Expenses  related  to such  activities  are not  material.  Also,  sales are not
dependent upon select  geographic  areas.  LNC has foreign  operations  that are
significant  in  relationship  to  the  consolidated  group  (see  note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 63).


Item 2. Properties

LNC and the various Fort Wayne operating  businesses own or lease  approximately
1.6  million  square  feet of office  space in the Fort Wayne  area.  Businesses
operating in suburban Chicago, Illinois; Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania;  Hartford,
Connecticut  and the United Kingdom own or lease another 1.2 million square feet
of office space.  An additional 1.1 million square feet of office space is owned
or leased in other U.S.  cities and  foreign  countries  for branch  offices and
other smaller  operations.  LNC expects to move its corporate  headquarters from
Fort Wayne to  Philadelphia  in  mid-1999.  The future lease  commitments  shown
within note 7 includes a commitment for 30,000 square feet in  Philadelphia  for
LNC's  headquarters.  As  shown  in  the  notes  to the  consolidated  financial
statements (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements on page 55), the
rental expense on operating leases for office space and equipment for continuing
operations  totaled $81.3 million for 1998.  Office space rent expense  accounts
for $63.2 million of this total. This discussion  regarding  properties does not
include information on investment properties.








Item 3. Legal Proceedings

LNC and its  subsidiaries  are involved in various  pending or threatened  legal
proceedings  arising  from the conduct of  business.  In some  instances,  these
proceedings  include claims for unspecified or substantial  punitive damages and
similar types of relief in addition to amounts for alleged contractual liability
or requests for equitable  relief.  After  consultation with legal counsel and a
review of available  facts,  it is management's  opinion that these  proceedings
ultimately  will be  resolved  without  materially  affecting  the  consolidated
financial position of LNC.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of 1998, no matters were submitted to  securityholders
for a vote.


PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Stock Market and Dividend Information

The dividend on LNC's  common  stock is declared  each quarter by LNC's Board of
Directors.  In determining  dividends,  the Board takes into consideration items
such as LNC's  financial  condition,  including  current and expected  earnings,
projected cash flows and anticipated financing needs. The range of market prices
and cash  dividends  declared by calendar  quarter for the past two years are as
follows:


Notes:
(1) At December 31, 1998, the number of  shareholders  of record of LNC's common
    stock was 12,025.

(2) The payment of  dividends  to  shareholders  is subject to the  restrictions
    described in note 7 to the consolidated  financial  statements (see page 54)
    and is discussed in the  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial
    Condition (see page 28).

Exchanges:  New York, Chicago and Pacific.

Stock Exchange Symbol:  LNC











(1) Factors affecting the comparability of net income from continuing operations
    and net income  from  continuing  operations  for the 1994- 1998  period are
    shown  on  page  8  (see  "Supplemental   Data").  Other  factors  affecting
    comparability  are shown  within the review of  operations  for each segment
    (see pages 9-18).

(2) Per share  amounts  were also  affected  by the  issuance of  9,200,000  and
    1,398,112  shares of common  stock in 1993 and 1997,  respectively,  and the
    retirement of 500,000; 694,582; 4,948,900 and 623,281 shares of common stock
    in 1994, 1996; 1997 and 1998 respectively.






Supplemental Data

The following table presents a reconciliation  of "Income (Loss) from Continuing
Operations"  to "Net Income  (Loss) from  Continuing  Operations"  determined in
accordance with generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  Income (Loss) from
Continuing  Operations  is LNC's  alternative  measure of operating  performance
which excludes the after-tax  realized gain (loss) on investments and associated
items, gain (loss) on sale of subsidiaries and restructuring charges.


(1) Income  (loss) from  continuing  operations  for 1997 and 1995  includes the
    impact of the  changes in estimate  of the  reserve  level  needed for LNC's
    disability  income business  ($130.0 million and $121.6 million,  after-tax,
    respectively).  Also 1997  includes a change in estimate for reserves for 1)
    Lincoln  UK's  pension   business  of  $174.9   million   after-tax  and  2)
    Reinsurance's personal accident programs of $113.7 million after-tax.


Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and 
         Financial Condition

The pages to follow review LNC's results of operations and financial  condition.
Historical financial  information is presented and analyzed.  Where appropriate,
factors  that  may  affect  future  financial  performance  are  identified  and
discussed.  Actual  results  could  differ  materially  from those  indicated in
forward-looking  statements due to, among other specific  changes  currently not
known,  subsequent  significant changes in: the company (e.g.,  acquisitions and
divestitures),  financial markets (e.g., interest rates and securities markets),
legislation (e.g., taxes and product taxation), regulations (e.g., insurance and
securities regulations), acts of God (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes and storms),
other  insurance  risks  (e.g.,   policyholder   mortality  and  morbidity)  and
competition.

On pages 9 through 18, the financial results of LNC's four business segments and
other  operations  are presented and discussed.  Within these  business  segment
discussions,  reference is made to "Income from  Operations".  This  alternative
measure of earnings is defined as "Net income less  realized gain (loss) on sale
of investments,  gain (loss) on sale of subsidiaries and restructuring  charges,
all net of  taxes."  Page 19  discusses  factors  affecting  LNC's  consolidated
investment  performance.  Pages 20 through 34 discuss factors that have affected
specific  elements  of  the  consolidated   financial   statements  as  well  as
information pertaining to LNC as a whole.

This  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Results  of  Operations  and
Financial Condition" should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated
financial statements and accompanying notes presented on pages 36 through 67.







Review of Operations: Life Insurance and Annuities




(1) Lincoln stopped writing disability income coverages on a direct basis at the
    end of March 1996.  The  administration  of this  business  was moved to the
    Reinsurance segment at the end of September 1995.

The Life Insurance and Annuities  segment reported record income from operations
of $404.6  million in 1998, a 58% increase over the $255.8  million  reported in
1997.  Continuing  double-digit  growth in the annuity business,  plus the added
earnings  from the blocks of business  acquired from CIGNA and Aetna during 1998
(see note 11 to the  consolidated  financial  statements  on page 66),  were the
primary factors in this segment's earnings performance.

Profile:  LNC's Insurance and Annuities  segment is composed of Lincoln National
Life Insurance  Company  ("Lincoln  Life"),  First  Penn-Pacific  Life Insurance
Company ("First Penn"), Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York ("LLANY") and
Lincoln Financial Advisors  Corporation  ("LFA"). As shown above, account values
for this segment's annuities, life insurance,  401(k) retirement plans and other
pensions  totaled $66.4 billion as of December 31, 1998. Life insurance in force
for these companies as of December 31,1998,  totaled $161.9 billion, an increase
of 157% in comparison with $63.1 billion as of December 31, 1997.

Lincoln Life,  which is based in Fort Wayne,  Indiana,  is the 13th largest life
insurer in the United States when measured by assets (Best's Review, Life/Health
Edition,  July 1998).  First Penn, which is  headquartered in Oakbrook  Terrace,
Illinois,  is  recognized  for  product  innovations.   One  unique  product  is
MoneyGuard  (Registered  Trade  Mark),  a policy  that  links  the  benefits  of
universal  life and long-term care  insurance in one.  LLANY,  which is based in
Syracuse,  New York, provides group tax-qualified  annuities and other insurance
products in the state of New York.

Lincoln Life,  First Penn and LLANY earned charter  memberships in the Insurance
Marketplace   Standards   Association   ("IMSA"),   an  independent,   voluntary
organization created by the American Council of Life Insurance.  IMSA membership
demonstrates  a company's  commitment to honesty,  fairness and integrity in all
customer  contacts  involving  sales and service of individual  life and annuity
products.








National Branding Campaign:  As part of our strategy to gain name recognition on
a  national  level,  we kicked  off an  aggressive  branding  campaign  where we
introduced  our  new  marketing  name,   Lincoln  Financial  Group.   Print  ads
emphasizing  our ability to provide  "clear and  understandable  solutions  in a
complex world,"  appeared in high profile  business and lifestyle  publications.
Also,  part  of  our  strategic  targeting  was  our  participation  with  other
nationally branded companies in an ESPN cable "Sports Century"  sponsorship,  an
18-month  long special  series of programs  commemorating  highlights  in sports
during the past century.

Acquisitions/Divestitures:   LNC  completed  the   acquisition  of  a  block  of
individual life insurance and annuities  business on January 2, 1998, from CIGNA
Corporation,  adding a career agency system of 600  producers;  a life brokerage
operation;  an annuity  distribution  system; and $37 billion of individual life
insurance  in  force.  The  acquisition  of  another  block of  individual  life
insurance  business on October 1, 1998, from Aetna, Inc. added 30 life brokerage
managers,  30 managing  general  agent  relationships,  a  corporate-owned  life
insurance sales force, access to more than 30,000 independent agents and a total
of  $42  billion  of   individual   life   insurance   in  force.   A  block  of
employer-sponsored life insurance business acquired in connection with the Aetna
businesses  was sold to  Protective  Life Corp.  In addition,  an agreement  was
reached with  Allstate  Life under which they would  reinsure  and  administer a
variable annuity portfolio acquired in connection with the CIGNA business.

In order to eliminate redundancies and capitalize on newly acquired competencies
and  existing  efficiencies,  Hartford,  Connecticut,  became the  platform  for
operating the segment's life insurance  business,  while the annuities operation
remained in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

Varied  Distribution:  Products  from the  companies  in this  segment  are sold
through multiple distribution channels, reflecting a marketplace where consumers
increasingly  want to do business on their own terms.  These channels are career
agents, independent agencies, insurance brokers, banks, stockbrokers,  financial
planners and the Internet.

Lincoln Life's and LLANY's wealth  accumulation and wealth  protection  products
include: fixed, variable and tax-deferred annuities; term, whole life, universal
and variable universal life insurance;  and employer sponsored retirement plans.
These products are sold in 50 states  through the 58 regional  offices of LFA, a
broker/dealer that serves approximately 2,050 career agents,  34,500 brokers and
4,500 bank agents as well as through 75,000 stockbrokers and financial planners.

LFA includes a network of regional  financial planning offices that serve as the
preferred  distributor  of  Lincoln  Life  products.  LFA offers a full range of
financial  planning  services and investments and is a securities  broker/dealer
and registered investment advisor.

Lincoln Life formed a strategic  alliance with BDO Seidman,  LLP, one of the top
10 accounting and consulting firms serving the dynamic entrepreneurial  business
market. Through this alliance, LFA planners will offer estate planning, business
continuity  planning,  investment  management services and financial planning to
BDO Seidman's client base at more than 40 offices across the country.

First Penn offers linked  benefit,  universal and term life  insurance and fixed
annuities through stockbrokers,  financial planners,  banks,  independent agents
and LFA. Life products are available for individual and worksite markets.  First
Penn designs, managers distribution and administers fixed annuities sold through
banks for Lincoln Life.

Annuities:  Lincoln Life is a leading  writer of annuities in the United  States
(National Underwriter,  August 1998). Annuity earnings in this segment increased
27% in 1998,  reaching a record $257.6 million. As of December 31, 1998, annuity
account  values  were $51.5  billion,  up from $44.6  billion  the year  before.
Variable  annuity  account  values at year-end were $33.4  billion,  while fixed
annuities represented $18.1 billion.

Annuity  deposits  in 1998 were $3.9  billion.  Annuity  deposits  sold  through
producers were $2.0 billion,  while annuity  deposits sold through  stockbrokers
were $1.4 billion.








Lincoln is  working  with  American  Funds  Distributors  ("AFD") on a number of
initiatives aimed at further  strengthening  sales. The American Legacy variable
annuity  products  are  marketed  to  stockbrokers  by AFD and to banks  through
Lincoln Financial Institutions Group, a strategic business unit of First Penn.

As a result of  restructuring  its  wholesaler  network,  AFD has  broadened its
distribution  capabilities  and its wholesalers now market both mutual funds and
annuities.  Today,  the  American  Legacy  product  has the  potential  of being
marketed  by three times as many  wholesalers  as in the past.  Lincoln  also is
supporting  the  wholesaler  network by providing its own American  Legacy sales
support team to assist in sales  promotion and  stockbroker  training  programs.
Product improvements,  including the expansion of fund offerings, are being made
to American Legacy.

In  response  to  the  increased  demand  for  multi-manager  products,  Lincoln
introduced the Delaware  Lincoln  ChoicePlus  (Service Mark) variable annuity in
the fourth  quarter of 1998.  This new product  contains 30 variable  investment
options in addition to a number of fixed account options.  Delaware Distributors
LP wholesales the Delaware Lincoln ChoicePlus variable annuity.

During  1998,  Lincoln also  introduced  two new  multi-manager  products in the
employer-sponsored  market.  Lincoln  Alliance gives an employer more choices by
offering a solid, fixed annuity foundation, combined with a vast array of mutual
funds. In addition, the Lincoln/Delaware Advantage product offers the investment
stability of a Lincoln Life fixed  annuity and the  investment  performance  and
diversity  available  through  the  Delaware  family of funds.  The  product  is
targeted  at the  mid- to  large-size  employer  in the  health  care  industry.
Finally,  eAnnuity  (Trade Mark),  the first  variable  annuity  targeted to the
self-directed investor and sold completely online, was also launched.

Life Insurance:  In 1998,  Lincoln began building a life insurance platform that
allowed the company to quickly  achieve scale,  deliver higher growth and better
financial  performance,  as well as leverage its  expertise in serving the super
affluent  market.  Operating income from life insurance was $147.0 million as of
December 31, 1998,  four times higher than 1997,  as a result of the  businesses
acquired from CIGNA and Aetna.  Combined  universal life,  whole life,  variable
life and interest  sensitive whole life insurance account values tripled in 1998
to $9.2 billion.  Individual life insurance sales, as measured by face amount of
in force, nearly doubled for the year to $36.6 billion.

All CIGNA products were duplicated  within Lincoln Life within four months after
the transaction closed. In addition, Lincoln introduced three new universal life
products,  two of which provide second-to-die  coverage,  for estate protection.
One also offers the opportunity for equity returns on account values.  All three
offer lifetime death benefit guarantees, including a Survivor Variable Universal
Life I and a Survivor Universal Life II product in 1998.

Pensions:  This segment's pension business is focused on 401(k) retirement plans
for  businesses  with fewer than 200  employees.  Account values for these plans
were $3.7 billion as of December 31,  1998, a 9% increase  over 1997.  To better
service  the  retirement  services  market  and to achieve  economies  of scale,
Lincoln  Life's  401(k)  retirement  plans  were  combined  with the  Investment
Management segment's defined contributions effective January 1999.

Outlook:  The Life  Insurance and Annuities  segment has laid the foundation for
increased  sales in the  future.  With the  kickoff  of an  aggressive  national
branding campaign,  were moving forward to build national brand recognition.  In
addition,   a   well-balanced   distribution   system,   coupled   with  product
improvements,  new product introductions and strategic partnerships will help in
strengthening  our market presence and will be the driving forces in placing our
annuities and life insurance operations among the top five.









Review of Operations: Lincoln UK (1)




(1) Income  (loss)  from  operations  and net income  (loss) for 1997  include a
    charge of $174.9 million ($199.4  million  pre-tax) for a change in estimate
    of the cost of settling pension  mis-selling  liabilities (see note 2 to the
    consolidated financial statements on page 45).
(2) Net Initial  Commissions  is a measure  used by Lincoln UK to measure  sales
    progress and future profitability.

LNC's Lincoln UK segment,  conducted  through Lincoln  National (UK) plc and its
operating  subsidiaries  reported record income from operations of $70.9 million
in 1998 compared with $66.6  million in 1997,  excluding a special  charge noted
above.

Profile: Lincoln UK offers life, investment,  protection and retirement planning
products primarily through 1,630 direct sales  representatives  and tied agents.
Lincoln UK sells predominantly unit-linked products where the investment risk is
borne by the  policyholder.  These  products  are similar to the  variable  life
products sold in the United States.  Home office  operations are divided between
Uxbridge, Middlesex, and Barnwood, Gloucester, England.

Product Development:  Lincoln UK relaunched Financial Foundations,  its flagship
unit-linked life insurance product with improved features allowing it to be much
more competitive in the marketplace.  Since its relaunch in mid-1998,  sales are
20%  ahead of the same  period  last  year,  and now  represent  over 25% of new
business.  In  response to a UK  government  promotional  program on  individual
savings,  plans  also are under  way to  relaunch  a wide  range of  medium-  to
long-term savings products this year,  including a new tax preferred  Individual
Savings Account (ISA) product.

National Branding Campaign:  During 1998, Lincoln UK took major steps to develop
its brand  awareness in the UK with two key  initiatives - the  Company's  first
ever  integrated   television  and  print  advertising   campaign,  as  well  as
participation in top level sports sponsorship.

The  advertising  campaign  was held  during  April and May in  Scotland,  using
creative  concepts  adapted  from  Lincoln's  corporate  campaign  in  the  U.S.
Subsequent  research indicated that awareness was raised throughout Scotland and
that the campaign had a positive effect on product sales.

Lincoln UK also  participated in the sponsorship of the Rugby League Test Series
between  Great  Britain and New Zealand,  two of the top three  leaders in Rugby
League  football in the world.  The three matches were played during October and
November 1998 and received wide media coverage,  on television and radio, and in
the national and local press.

The sponsorship was widely  acclaimed by the public,  sales advisors and members
of staff as one of the most positive name awareness promotions ever to have been
undertaken by Lincoln UK.








City Financial Partners Ltd ("CFPL"): Lincoln UK's largest tied agent, CFPL, was
acquired  at  the  end  of  1997  and  is  now a  wholly-owned  subsidiary.  Its
integration into the organization was successfully  completed in 1998, a year in
which CFPL agents produced 45% of Lincoln UK's new business.

Markets:  Account values in the unit-linked  asset business were $6.3 billion as
of December  31,  1998,  an increase  of 11% over the year  before.  Net initial
commission  values were $54.9 million,  slightly lower than the $55.4 million in
1997.  Individual  life  insurance in force as of December  31, 1998,  was $25.0
billion.

Exchange Rates: LNC's subsidiary in the United Kingdom,  as with subsidiaries in
other foreign  countries,  has its balance sheet accounts and income  statements
translated  at the current  exchange  and average  exchange  rates for the year,
respectively.  The average  exchange  rate for 1998 was $1.658 per British pound
sterling.  This was 1% higher than the 1997 average  exchange rate of $1.644 per
British pound.

Pension Product  Mis-selling:  A charge of $174.9 million after-tax was taken in
the fourth quarter of 1997 to increase reserves for liabilities in the so-called
"pension  mis-selling"  situation  in the United  Kingdom.  Regulatory  agencies
raised  questions as to whether  individuals  who bought  pensions in the UK and
exited  employer  plans were given  appropriate  advice by insurance  agents and
brokers.  The regulatory  agencies asked the insurance companies to review their
cases and to provide  redress to those  individuals  harmed by the activities of
agents or brokers.  As a result of what the government viewed as a slow response
by the insurance industry, regulators have set targets, publicly named companies
that it sees as tardy in  their  resolution  of  cases  and  taken  disciplinary
actions.

Lincoln UK is committed to completing  its review as quickly as possible so that
appropriate  action can be taken. The regulatory  agency deadline for Lincoln UK
to complete  phase one of its review was December 31, 1998.  The  achievement of
this target was a critical milestone for the company. Lincoln has made offers of
redress,  or  provided  reassurance  that  redress  is not  required  to all its
priority  policyholders.  The segment has also obtained acceptance of offers or,
in  accordance  with  the  regulatory  agency  requirements,  believe  they  can
demonstrate that every effort to obtain their  acceptance has been made.  Nearly
11,000 cases have been assessed by a dedicated  team of 170  full-time  staff at
four  locations.  The company is well  positioned  to deal with phase two of the
review,  which  began on  January 4,  1999.  This will  entail the review of the
balance of policyholders  who took out personal  pensions between April 1988 and
June 1994 and have not had their cases reviewed under phase one.

As of December  31, 1998 and December  31,  1997,  the balance in the  liability
account  established  for this  matter was $202.1  million  and $291.0  million,
respectively.  These  liabilities,  which are net of expected  recoveries,  were
established for the estimated cost of this issue following  regulatory  guidance
as to  activities  to be  undertaken.  These  liabilities  are  net of  expected
recoveries  of $84.9  million and $113.0  million,  respectively,  from previous
owners  of  companies  acquired  over  the last few  years as  specified  in the
indemnification clauses of the purchase agreements.

Outlook:  By the end of 1999, Lincoln UK will have made substantial  progress in
the pensions review and expects a stable earnings picture with some growth going
forward.  Lincoln UK  anticipates  growing faster than the rest of the U.K. life
insurance  industry  through  increased  distribution,  a superior trained sales
force, improved products and investment performance.








Review of Operations: Reinsurance





(1) Income  (loss)  from  operations  and net  income  (loss)  for 1997 and 1995
    include the impact of a change in estimate of the reserve  level  needed for
    LNC's  disability  income  business  ($130.0  million,  and  $121.6  million
    after-tax, respectively). Also, income (loss) from operations and net income
    (loss) for 1997 include a charge of $113.7 million  after-tax for the impact
    of a change in estimate of the reserve  level needed for  personal  accident
    programs.

LNC's Reinsurance segment ("Lincoln Re"), reported record income from operations
of $101.5 million in 1998,  exceeding its $100 million target  established a few
years ago. This compares with $92.1 million in 1997,  excluding special charges.
As of December 31,  1998,  Lincoln Re's  individual  and group life  business in
force was $250.3 billion, an increase of 36% over the prior year.

Profile:  One of the leading  life-health  reinsurers  in the world,  Lincoln Re
reported  consolidated,  worldwide  net premium  income of $2.1 billion in 1998.
This compares with $1.7 billion net premium income reported in 1997.  Lincoln Re
maintains  offices  in a number  of U.S.  cities  and has  offices  in  Toronto,
Brussels, Buenos Aires, London, Mexico City, Manila and Singapore.

Lincoln Re also is charged with managing  LNC's  activities in several  emerging
markets,  including  LNC's joint venture,  Seguros Serfin  Lincoln,  which sells
insurance products through Banca Serfin, Mexico's oldest and third largest bank.
Lincoln Re also maintains  representative  offices in China (Beijing,  Shanghai,
Guangzhou)  and,  in 1998,  signed a letter of intent  with Ping An, the largest
private  insurance  company in the  People's  Republic  of China with a national
charter, to work toward creating a joint venture that will sell life insurance.

Lincoln Re's approach is that the traditional  risk-transfer  commodity business
is in decline and that  today's  reinsurer  must  provide  innovative,  tailored
programs.  As a result,  Lincoln  Re uses a mass  customization  approach.  This
involves  packaging and  distributing  modular pricing,  underwriting,  systems,
alliance  resources,  marketing  consultation,  product  development  and claims
management  components to meet the needs of client  companies.  It has a current
client  base of more than  1,700 U.S.  and 350  international  companies,  and a
client retention rate of more than 95%.

Lincoln Re's intellectual capital is critical to its success and its systems are
used  throughout  the  insurance  industry.  Its  knowledge-based   approach  to
reinsurance  continues  to  distinguish  itself as a leader  in an  increasingly
competitive  marketplace,  allowing  for  customer  retention  and to build  new
relationships on a global basis.








Foremost  among these  systems is Lincoln  National Risk  Management's  ("LNRM")
patented Life Underwriting System, a state-of-the-art risk management technology
now licensed to more than 50 insurers. Further, nearly 30 % of new life business
written  during 1998 can be  attributed  to  companies  that have  utilized  the
Lincoln Mortality System (Trade Mark), a system which helps design new preferred
term  insurance  products.  In 1998,  Lincoln Re was granted a second  patent to
protect  its  Lincoln  Mortality  System  and  other  automated  decision-making
systems. Other proprietary systems assist health insurers, claims processors and
agents.  Datalliance  (Registered Trade Mark), is an electronic data interchange
that  can  link  agents,   insurers,   information  sources,  medical  labs  and
reinsurers.

In  1998,  Lincoln  Re  introduced  the  industry's  first   browser-based  life
underwriting manual on CD-ROM to its reinsurance clients,  enabling faster, more
efficient underwriting of life insurance policies.  Lincoln Re also entered into
a  strategic  alliance  with  Cybertek,  a  major  developer  of  administrative
solutions in the life insurance business. Cybertek is working to incorporate the
Lincoln Underwriting System into its base product.

Lincoln Re's approach also  involves the  capabilities  of more than 40 alliance
partners.   These  include  direct  marketers,   medical  equipment   suppliers,
electronic information providers, specialized legal firms, accountants, variable
life and annuity  administrators,  all ready to form a "virtual organization" to
help Lincoln Re clients do business.

Individual  Markets:  Strong sales in recent years  contributed to record income
from operations for individual markets in 1998. Income from operations was $83.5
million, a 16% increase over 1997. Very favorable life mortality  throughout the
year was an integral factor in the strong performance. Sales volume, measured by
face amount of new business,  was a record $78.1 billion in 1998,  nearly double
the amount of last year.

Group Markets: Income from operations in 1998 in group markets was $2.7 million.
This  compares  with $10.4  million in 1997,  excluding  the special  charge for
personal  accident   programs.   Total  annualized  premium  of  $248.4  million
represents an increase of 23% over the $202.2 million in 1997.

Financial Reinsurance: Income from operations was $15.2 million, slightly higher
than income from operations of $14.4 million in 1997.

Disability  Income:  The disability  income business has proved to be one of the
most  difficult  for the  industry in this  decade.  Lincoln  Life,  the largest
company  in LNC's  Life  Insurance  and  Annuities  segment,  withdrew  from the
disability  income market in 1996 and its block of business was  transferred  to
Lincoln  Re  where  it has  been  managed  along  with a  block  of  reinsurance
disability income business.

In the  fourth  quarter  of 1995,  LNC took a $121.6  million  after-tax  charge
against  earnings  to  strengthen   reserves  for  the  direct  and  reinsurance
disability  income business.  These reserves were established  assuming that the
current  experience  would continue.  In the second quarter of 1997, LNC took an
additional  after-tax  charge of $130 million against  earnings when it obtained
new information indicating that experience had deteriorated further.

Outlook: Lincoln Re continues to enhance its reputation as a leading life-health
reinsurer in the world with the  development  of new  knowledge-based  tools and
marketing  methods.  It continues to build  partnerships  inside and outside the
traditional insurance marketplace.








Review of Operations:  Investment Management (1)




(1)  Data shown in the 1995 column is for a partial year, as this segment was 
added in April 1995 following the acquisition of Delaware Management Holdings,
Inc.

LNC's  Investment  Management  segment reported record income from operations of
$20.8 million in 1998,  compared with $4.5 million in 1997.  The segment's  1998
operating  income,  excluding  amortization  of  goodwill  and other  intangible
assets, was $49.6 million.  The improvement was driven by increased revenues due
to record  levels of  inflows,  higher  net sales and the  impact of the  market
levels during the year.

LNIC's  assets  under  management  at December 31, 1998 were $58.8  billion,  an
increase of $4.8 billion or 9% from  December 31, 1997 assets of $54.0  billion,
primarily due to the upward trend of the market during the year. LNIC had record
levels of retail sales ($4.2 billion for 1998) and  institutional  inflows ($6.2
billion for 1998).  In addition,  LNIC's net retail cash flows were $2.0 billion
for the year versus $0.6 billion for 1997.

Domestic   institutional  assets  represent  $21.5  billion  of  the  Investment
Management segment's total assets under management, while domestic retail assets
were $25.2  billion.  International  equity and global  bond  assets  managed by
Delaware International  Advisers,  Ltd. account for $12.1 billion ($10.7 billion
institutional, $1.4 billion retail).

Profile: The companies that comprise this segment are: Delaware Management 
Holdings, Inc.; Lynch & Mayer, Inc.; and Vantage Investment Advisors.  Delaware
has its headquarters in Philadelphia, with affiliates in London, Denver and 
Minneapolis.  Lynch & Mayer and Vantage each maintain separate headquarters in
New York.

Although  investment  management has long been an area of expertise  within LNC,
the addition of Delaware in 1995 signaled LNC's  intention to expand its role as
a money  manager and meet its  objective  of  becoming a force in the  financial
services industry.

During 1998, two external  transactions  positively affected the retail business
of LNIC:  the  acquisition  of CIGNA's ACCRU business and the sale of Delaware's
Unit Investment Trust business to Nike Securities. These transactions reinforced
Delaware's market focus on core retail products,  (i.e., mutual funds,  variable
annuities and participant directed retirement plans) and strengthened Delaware's
retail distribution by the addition of the former CIGNA ACCRU wholesalers.






Delaware  Investments' defined contribution area performed well in 1998, growing
to $5.9 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 1998. In the first
quarter of 1999,  Lincoln Life's  retirement  area was combined under  Delaware,
resulting  in an  organization  with $9.6  billion in  retirement  assets.  This
combination should result in a broader product range that is better serviced and
more  profitable  over the long  term,  with  consistent  asset  growth  because
retirement plans tend to be long-term relationships with continuing cash flow.

Complementary Approaches:  Delaware, Lynch & Mayer and Vantage are encouraged to
preserve their  complementary and distinctive  investment  styles.  Diversity of
investment  styles, as well as diversity of clients served,  are prudent ways to
diversify risk in varying market environments.

Delaware is best known for a conservative,  "value" equity investment style that
focuses on stocks with above average dividend yields.  It is also recognized for
expertise  in the  small-cap  and mid-cap  growth  styles and in  municipal  and
high-yield  bonds.  Delaware  International  Advisers,  Ltd. in London  provides
global and international equity and fixed income investment expertise.

Lynch & Mayer pursues a "growth" investment style and specializes in mid-cap and
large-cap  equities.  Vantage invests in undervalued  companies that have strong
potential  for  above-average  growth.  It  employs a  disciplined,  systematic,
risk-controlled investment approach, which delivers growth at a reasonable price
(GARP).  Vantage is especially well known for its socially responsible investing
expertise,  the practice of aligning investment  objectives with social concerns
in one investment portfolio.

Distribution:  Multiple  distribution  channels  enable  the  businesses  in the
Investment  Management  segment to deliver  their  broad range of products to an
expanding community of retail and institutional investors.  Delaware markets its
mutual funds through regional and national  broker/dealers,  financial planners,
banks,  and  insurance  agents,  including  those  associated  with the regional
marketing offices of Lincoln Life. Institutional products are marketed primarily
by each  company's  sales force  through  pension  consultants  and  directly to
defined benefit and defined contribution plan sponsors, endowments,  foundations
and insurance companies.

Retail Mutual Funds: The Investment  Management segment's retail mutual fund and
wrap fee assets totaled $26.6 billion at December 31, 1998, an 18% increase from
$22.5 billion at December 31, 1997.  Delaware  offers 74 open-end  retail mutual
funds and 8 closed-end funds with assets under  management of $13.2 billion,  an
increase of 7% over the $12.3 billion at December 31, 1997. The remaining  $13.4
billion was from  wrap-fee  business and retail  mutual funds managed by Lynch &
Mayer and Vantage.

The acquisition  and integration of CIGNA's ACCRU business  increased the number
of retail  wholesalers  to 51 as of December 31, 1998 from 37 as of December 31,
1997,  strengthening  Delaware's retail sales presence.  The multi-manager ACCRU
variable annuity product, which was re-launched in the 4th quarter of 1998 under
the name  Delaware-Lincoln  ChoicePlus (Service Mark), has further broadened and
diversified Delaware's product line.

Delaware received excellent ratings in the 1998 Dalbar Broker/Dealer Survey that
rates the quality of marketing and service of approximately 25 large mutual fund
complexes. Delaware is the 4th highest ranked firm in the Main Office Operations
category, up from 8th last year. In addition, financial advisors ranked Delaware
2nd in Wholesaler Support and 1st in Dedicated  Marketing Support.  High ratings
are important  because  quality service is a key factor in growing and retaining
assets.

Improved  performance and service  contributed to Delaware increasing its retail
non-money  market sales to $3.1 billion in 1998, up 55% in comparison  with $2.0
billion  for 1997.  In  addition,  Delaware's  net  retail  cash flows were $1.5
billion for 1998 versus $0.1 billion for 1997.

Institutional Investments:  The institutional investment management business had
assets under management of $32.2 billion as of December 31, 1998,  compared with
$31.5 billion at December 31, 1997. LNIC's institutional inflows of $6.2 billion
for 1998, were 22% higher than the $5.1 billion in 1997.  Institutional net cash
flows,  however,  declined  slightly to ($2.2)  billion  for 1998 versus  ($2.0)
billion for 1997,  largely due to client losses resulting from  underperformance
in Lynch & Mayer's mid- and large-cap growth products.

Investment  Performance:  As of  December  31,  1998,  Delaware  had  16  funds,
representing 28% of the company's mutual fund assets under management, ranked as
four-  and  five-star  funds  by  Morningstar,  Inc.,  a  service  that  assigns
risk-adjusted  performance  ratings  to  mutual  funds.  One star is the  lowest
rating; five






is the highest.  High Morningstar  ratings are significant because virtually all
equity net inflows are directed into funds with high risk-adjusted ratings.

Vantage  manages the  Lincoln  Life  MultiFund  (Registered  Trade Mark)  Social
Awareness  subaccount.  The Fund has performed  exceptionally well over the long
term. For the five years ended December 31, 1998, the Fund's  annualized  return
earned Vantage 30th place among 572 variable annuity funds.

Among U.S. institutional  investment managers,  Delaware produced strong results
in the  value  equity  category,  with a return  of  11.19%  for the year  ended
December 31, 1998 that qualified as second  quartile  performance as measured by
Callan's Yield Universe.

Underperformance  in Lynch & Mayer's mid-cap growth product resulted in the loss
of clients and a decline in  institutional  assets  under  management  from $4.5
billion at December 31, 1997 to $2.8  billion at December  31, 1998.  This issue
was addressed during 1998 and a restructured  investment team is in place with a
mandate to improve performance.

Outlook:  The rapid  growth of  Delaware's  retail  mutual fund  business,  both
through  internal  efforts  and  selective  acquisitions,  continues  to  be  an
essential component of LNC's long-term strategy. Given the improvements realized
in 1998, LNC is well positioned for accelerating this growth.


Review of Other Operations:


The income (loss) from operations shown above includes the earnings from Lincoln
Investment Management, certain other operations that are not directly related to
the business segments and unallocated  corporate revenues and expenses,  such as
corporate  investment  income,  interest  expense on  short-term  and  long-term
borrowings,  and  corporate  overhead  expenses.  Prior  to the  date of sale in
October  1995,   Other   Operations   also  include   LNC's   investment  in  an
unconsolidated affiliate engaged in the employee life-health benefits business.

Lincoln Investment  Management  provides  investment advisory services and asset
management services for LNC's Corporate portfolios as well as entities not owned
by LNC.

Corporate  interest  expense  reported  within the LNC financing  line above was
greater for 1995 and 1996 than years prior to 1995 as the result of additions to
long-term  debt  and  minority   interest-preferred   securities  of  subsidiary
companies.  The 1997 amount was less than 1995 and 1996 due to reduced  interest
expense and investment earnings in the fourth quarter of 1997 that resulted from
the use of proceeds from the sale of discontinued  operations (see liquidity and
cash flow  discussion  on page 34).  This benefit did not continue  into 1998 as
most of these funds were used to purchase  blocks of individual  life  insurance
and  annuity  business  in  January  and  October  of 1998  (see  note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 66).

Net  income  (loss)  shown  above  for  "Other  Operations"  includes  the items
described above under loss from operations plus the realized gain (loss) on sale
of certain investments,  the gain (loss) on sale of subsidiaries (see note 11 to
the consolidated  financial  statements on page 65) and a restructuring  charge.
The 1998 restructuring charge is the result of an organizational/expense  review
and  represents  severance pay and space  abandonment  charges  because of staff
reductions in the parent and other select companies.







Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Investments


(1)  See Investment Management segment data on page 16 for additional detail.

The following discussion covers select general investment matters. The review of
consolidated  operations,  which begins on page 20, includes the fact that LNC's
net investment income for the year ended December 31, 1998 was $2.7 billion,  an
increase of 17% over 1997. Also, this discussion  indicates that during 1998 net
gains  on  investments  totaling  $19  million  were  realized.  The  review  of
consolidated financial condition begins on page 24 and discusses the composition
and quality of the LNC portfolio.

Investment  Objective:  LNC follows a balanced  approach of  investing  for both
current  income and total  return,  with an  emphasis on  generating  sufficient
current income to meet LNC's obligations.  This approach requires the evaluation
of risk and expected  return of each asset class  utilized,  while still meeting
the  income  objectives  of  LNC.  This  approach  also  permits  LNC to be more
effective in its asset-liability  management,  since decisions can be made based
upon both the economic and current  investment income  considerations  affecting
assets and liabilities.

Asset Diversification: Fundamental to LNC's investment policy is diversification
across asset classes.  LNC's investment  portfolio,  excluding cash and invested
cash, is composed of fixed maturity securities; equities; mortgage loans on real
estate; real estate either wholly owned or in joint ventures and other long-term
investments.  LNC  purchases  investments  that have yield,  duration  and other
characteristics  which take into account the  liabilities  of the products being
supported.  The dominant  investment  held is fixed maturity  securities,  which
represent approximately 80% of the investment portfolio.

Fixed Maturity Performance: In 1998, the LNC fixed maturity portfolio produced a
return of 7.57%, compared to the Lehman Brothers Government/Corporate index (68%
government   bonds,   32%   corporate   bonds)   which   produced   9.47%.   The
underperformance  relative  to the index  during  1998 is due to the  investment
strategy  of  investing  in bonds with  sufficient  spread to support  long-term
insurance  liabilities.  During 1998, LNC experienced extreme spread widening in
all sectors which had the effect of reducing  returns.  The spread  widening was
caused by the Emerging Markets crisis and the subsequent  flight to high quality
U.S.  treasury bonds by global  investors.  The government bond component of the
index performed very well relative to corporate bonds.

Use of  Derivatives:  The primary use of derivatives at LNC is to hedge interest
rate  risk that is  embedded  in  either  life  insurance  and  annuity  product
liabilities or investment portfolios.  To a lesser extent,  derivatives are also
used to hedge exposures to foreign currency and equity market risks.








REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION


REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
Some of the  increases  shown above are the result of the purchase of two blocks
of individual life insurance and annuity business in January and October of 1998
(see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page 66).

Life Insurance and Annuity Premiums
Life insurance and annuity premiums  increased $229.4 million or 30% in 1998 and
$27.5 million or 4% in 1997 as the result of increases in volumes of business in
the Life  Insurance  &  Annuities  and  Reinsurance  segments.  A portion of the
increase from the Life Insurance and Annuities  segment in 1998 is the result of
the  acquisition  of the blocks of business.  Barring the passage of unfavorable
tax legislation that would eliminate the  tax-advantages  for some of LNC's life
and annuity products,  LNC expects growth in life insurance and annuity premiums
in 1999.

Health Premiums
Health premiums within the Reinsurance segment increased $62.6 million or 11% in
1998 after decreasing $218.0 million or 28% in 1997. The 1997 reduction included
planned cut backs in the level of business.

Insurance Fees
Insurance  fees from universal  life,  other  interest-sensitive  life insurance
contracts and variable life insurance  contracts increased $442.4 million or 53%
in 1998 and $118.7 million or 17% in 1997.  These increases are the result of an
increase in the volume of transactions  (including the addition of two blocks of
business  in  1998  as  described  in  note  11 to  the  consolidated  financial
statements  on page 66) and a  market-driven  increase  in the value of existing
customer  accounts upon which some of the fees are based in the Life Insurance &
Annuities  and  Lincoln UK  segments.  The growth in fees from this  business is
expected to continue in 1999.

Investment Advisory Fees
Investment  advisory  fees  increased  $22.2  million  or 11 % in 1998 and $24.1
million or 13% in 1997. These increases were the result of increased  volumes of
business and an increase in the market value of customer accounts. The increased
volumes were the result of increasing  the number of  wholesalers  and products,
including the addition of wholesalers in the bank market.







Net Investment Income
Net investment  income increased $430.6 million or 19% in 1998 as the net result
of a 21%  increase  in  mean  invested  assets,  a  decrease  in  the  yield  on
investments  from  7.46% to  7.36%  (all  calculations  on a cost  basis).  This
increase in mean invested assets is the result of increased  volumes of business
in all the  business  segments  and  funds  held in Other  Operations  that were
applied  toward the purchase of a block of business in October of 1998 (see note
11 to the  consolidated  financial  statements  on page 66). The increase in the
Life Insurance and Annuities  segment  includes the impact of the acquisition of
the  blocks  of  business  in 1998 (see  note 11 to the  consolidated  financial
statements on page 66). Net investment  income increased $162.9 million or 8% in
1997 as a net result of a 9% increase in mean invested assets, a decrease in the
yield on investments from 7.52% to 7.46% (all  calculations on a cost basis) and
a  benefit  of  a  reduction  in  the   recurring   adjustment  of  discount  on
mortgage-backed securities. In 1997, this adjustment was a charge of $.4 million
versus a charge of $7.6 million in 1996. The increase in mean invested assets in
1997 was the result of increased  volumes of business in the Life  Insurance and
Annuities segment.

Realized Gain on Investments
The  pre-tax  realized  gain on  investments,  net of related  amortization  and
expenses, was $19.0 million,  $122.6 million and $92.5 million in 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively. The after-tax gain in 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $13.7 million,
$72.9 million and $57.6  million,  respectively.  These gains were primarily the
result of the sale of investments.  Write-downs and provisions for losses offset
a portion of the  realized  gains.  During  1996,  LNC  completed a bulk sale of
performing and non-performing  mortgage loans and real estate holdings through a
sealed bid  process.  The selling  price for these  holdings was $6.1 million in
excess of the carrying value, resulting in a gain on sale.

Securities  available-for-sale,  mortgage  loans on real  estate and real estate
that were deemed to have  declines in fair value that were other than  temporary
were written down.  The fixed  maturity  securities  to which these  write-downs
apply were  generally of  investment  grade  quality at the time of purchase but
were  classified  as  "below-investment-grade"  at the time of the  write-downs.
Also,  write-downs  and allowances  for losses on select  mortgage loans on real
estate,  real estate and other  investments were established when the underlying
value of the  property  was  deemed to be less than the  carrying  value.  These
write-downs  and  provisions  for losses are  disclosed  within the notes to the
accompanying  financial  statements  (see note 3 to the  consolidated  financial
statements on page 46).

Other Revenue and Fees
Other  revenue and fees  increased  $103.8  million in 1998 and $18.9 million in
1997 as the result of  increases  in the volume of  transactions  in each of the
business segments.

Total Revenue
The level of revenue  produced for select revenues  listed above,  primarily the
fee  based  revenues,  such as  insurance  fees and  investment  advisory  fees,
fluctuates  from  year to year  because  of  changes  in the  equity  investment
markets.  For  example,  a  1%  change  in  the  equity  investment  market,  as
represented  by a measure  such as the S&P 500,  increases  or  decreases  total
revenue by approximately  $4.5 million based on the business  currently managed.
Although  the impact is not  dollar for dollar  because of the impact of Federal
income  taxes,  such  changes in revenues  also  increases  or  decreases  LNC's
earnings.  Barring a major drop in the equity  markets,  LNC  expects to produce
revenues in future years in excess of the  revenues  produced for the year ended
December 31, 1998.

Life Insurance and Annuity Benefits
Life insurance and annuity  benefits  increased $403.3 million or 17% in 1998 as
compared  to 1997.  This  increase  was the net  result of  increases  of $470.8
million in the Life  Insurance and Annuities  segment  (includes the addition of
two blocks of individual  life  insurance  and annuity  business as described in
note 11 to the  consolidated  financial  statements on page 66) and increases in
the Reinsurance  segment of $122.5 million being partially  offset by a decrease
in the  Lincoln  UK  segment  of $190.0  million  due to the  absence of special
charges in 1998.  Life insurance and annuity  benefits in 1997 increased  $322.4
million or 16% as compared to 1996. This increase was the result of increases of
$89.4 million or 6% from the Life Insurance and Annuities segment, $25.6 million
or 7% from the  Reinsurance  segment  and  $207.1  million  from the  Lincoln UK
segment.  The Lincoln UK increase  includes a change in estimate for its pension
mis-selling  liability (see note 2 to the consolidated  financial  statements on
page 45).

Health Benefits
Health benefits  increased $108.8 million or 24% in 1998 compared to 1997 health
benefits,  excluding  the 1997 special  additions to the  disability  income and
personal   accident  programs  reserves  ($130.0  million  and  $113.7  million,
respectively) as the result of increased volumes of business.  See note 2 to the
consolidated financial






statements on page 45. Health benefits  increased  $159.5 million in 1997 as the
net result of decreased  volumes of business being more than offset by additions
to the reserves for disability  income business and personal  accident  programs
within the Reinsurance segment.

Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other Expenses
These  expenses  increased  $364.4  million  or 23% in  1998  as the  result  of
increased  business  volumes  in all  business  segments,  the  addition  of the
operating costs  associated with the block of business  acquired in January 1998
and  increased   expenditures   related  to  Year  2000  issues.   Underwriting,
Acquisition,  Insurance and other  expenses  increased  $144.4 million or 10% in
1997. The primary drivers behind this increase beyond the general inflation rate
was increased business volumes in the various segments due to general growth and
the one-time and  on-going  costs  associated  with the  acquisition  of the two
blocks of business (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page
66)  and the  write-off  of  deferred  acquisition  costs  associated  with  the
disability income business (see note 2 to the consolidated  financial statements
on page 45). In 1999, all business segments will continue to adjust staff levels
as appropriate to match business volumes.

Due to LNC's  change in its  business  focus  during  the last few years  (i.e.,
exited property-casualty  business, added emphasis on annuities,  life insurance
and investment  management)  as well as the on-going and increasing  competitive
pressures  within the business LNC operates in, the decision was made in 1998 to
initiate an  organizational/expense  review. This review, which was completed in
the fourth  quarter of 1998,  resulted  in a  one-time  restructuring  charge to
earnings. The amount of the pre-tax charge was $22.0 million and the estimate of
the  reduction in future  expenses  once  implementation  is complete is $15-$20
million per year.

Interest and Debt Expense
Interest  and  debt  expense  increased  $24.6  million  or 27% in 1998 and $7.8
million  or 9% in 1997.  These  increases  were the result of  increases  in the
average debt  outstanding  and the impact of changes in the  composition of debt
outstanding (see page 32). During 1998,  Moody's  re-affirmed LNC's debt ratings
as A2 ("Very Good, Strong or High"), Standard and Poor's changed its rating from
A to A- ("both Very Good,  Strong or High") and Duff & Phelps changed its rating
from AA- ("Excellent") to A+ ("Very Good, Strong or High").

Federal Income Taxes
Federal  income  taxes  increased  $174.9  million  in 1998 as the  result of an
increase in the pre-tax  earnings.  Federal  income taxes  decreased from $147.7
million in 1996 to $12.7  million in 1997 as the result of a decrease in pre-tax
earnings.

Discontinued Operations
In 1997,  lines were added to the income  statement to accommodate the operating
activity  and gain on sale  associated  with  LNC's  decision  to sell its 83.3%
ownership  in  American  States  Financial  Corporation  (see  note  11  to  the
consolidated financial statements on page 65.

Summary
Net income for 1998 was $509.8  million  compared  with $934.0  million in 1997.
Excluding  realized  gain  (loss)  on  investments,   gain  (loss)  on  sale  of
subsidiaries,  restructuring  charges,  discontinued  operations  and  the  1997
special  additions to the disability  income,  personal accident programs and UK
pension product  reserves,  all net of taxes, LNC earned $530.4 million for 1998
compared to $368.0  million in 1997.  This  increase is the result of  increased
earnings from each of the business segments. In the fourth quarter of 1997 Other
Operations  benefited  from earnings on proceeds from  discontinued  operations.
This  benefit  did not  continue  into 1998 as most of these  funds were used to
purchase a block of individual life and annuity business on January 2, 1998 (see
note 11 to the  consolidated  financial  statements  on page 66). Net income for
1997 was $934.0 million compared with $513.6 million in 1996. Excluding realized
gain  (loss)  on  investments,  gain  on  sale  of  subsidiaries,   discontinued
operations and the 1997 special additions to reserves, LNC earned $368.0 million
for 1997  compared  to $298.8  million in 1996.  This  increase is the result of
increased earnings in the Life Insurance & Annuities, Lincoln UK and Reinsurance
segments.

Century Compliance
The Year 2000 issue is pervasive and complex and affects  virtually every aspect
of LNC's  businesses.  LNC's computer  systems and interfaces  with the computer
systems of vendors, suppliers,  customers and business partners are particularly
vulnerable.  LNC and its operating  subsidiaries  have been  redirecting a large
portion of internal  Information  Technology ("IT") efforts and contracting with
outside consultants to update systems to address Year 2000 issues.  Experts have
been  engaged  to assist in  developing  work  plans and cost  estimates  and to
complete remediation activities.







For the year ended  December  31, 1998,  LNC  identified  expenditures  of $37.5
million  ($24.4  million  after-tax)  to address  this  issue.  This  brings the
expenditures  for 1996-1998 to $48.5 million  ($31.5 million  after-tax).  LNC's
financial  plans for 1999-2000  include  expected  expenditures of an additional
$44.4 million ($28.9 million  after-tax)  bringing  estimated  overall Year 2000
expenditures  to $92.9  million  ($60.4  million  after-tax).  Because  updating
systems  and  procedures  is an  integral  part of  LNC's  on-going  operations,
approximately 50% of expenditures shown above are expected to continue after all
Year 2000  issues have been  resolved.  Actual  Year 2000  expenditures  through
December  31, 1998 and future Year 2000  expenditures  are expected to be funded
from operating cash flows.  The anticipated  cost of addressing Year 2000 issues
is based on  management's  current best estimates  which were derived  utilizing
numerous assumptions of future events,  including the continued  availability of
certain resources,  third party modification plans and other factors. Such costs
will be monitored closely by management. Nevertheless, there can be no guarantee
that  actual  costs will not be higher  than  these  estimated  costs.  Specific
factors that might cause such differences  include,  but are not limited to, the
availability  and cost of personnel  trained in this area, the ability to locate
and correct all relevant computer problems and other uncertainties.

The current scope of the overall Year 2000 program includes the following four
major project areas: 1) addressing the readiness of business applications,
operating systems and hardware on mainframe, personal computer and Local Area 
Network platforms (IT); 2) addressing the readiness of non-IT embedded software
and equipment (non-IT); 3) addressing the readiness of key business partners and
4) establishing year 2000 contingency plans.

The projects to address IT and non-IT  readiness  have four major phases.  Phase
one involves  raising  awareness  and creating an inventory of all IT and non-IT
assets.  The  second  phase  consists  of  assessing  all items  inventoried  to
initially  determine  whether  they are  affected  by the Year  2000  issue  and
preparing  general  plans and  strategies.  The third phase entails the detailed
planning  and  remediation  of affected  systems and  equipment.  The last phase
consists of testing to verify Year 2000 readiness.

LNC has completed  these four phases for over two-thirds of its high priority IT
systems,  including  those provided by software  vendors.  While LNC's year 2000
program for nearly all high  priority IT systems is expected to be  completed in
the first quarter of 1999, phase four, for a small but important subset of these
systems,  will  continue  through  the end of the  second  quarter  1999.  As of
December 31, 1998 the status of projects  addressing  readiness of IT assets is:
100% of IT assets have been inventoried (Phase 1) and assessed (Phase 2); 97% of
IT projects  have been  through the  remediation  phase  (Phase 3) with the last
project  scheduled  for  completion  by the  end of  March  1999;  and 71% of IT
projects  have  completed  the  testing  phase  (Phase 4) with the last  project
scheduled  to finish  testing by the end of June  1999.  A portion of the effort
that extends into 1999 is dependent on outside  third  parties and is behind the
original  schedule.  LNC is working with these parties to modify the  completion
schedule.

As of December 31, 1998 the status of projects  that  address  readiness of high
priority non-IT assets, is:100% of non-IT assets have been inventoried (Phase 1)
and assessed (Phase 2); 72% of non-IT projects addressing  remediation (Phase 3)
have been completed and 23% of non-IT  projects have completed the testing phase
(Phase 4).  LNC  expects to have all  phases  related  to high  priority  non-IT
completed by the end of October 1999.

Concurrent  with the IT and  non-IT  projects,  the  readiness  of key  business
partners is being reviewed and Year 2000 contingency  plans are being developed.
The  most  significant   categories  of  key  business  partners  are  financial
institutions,  software  vendors,  and  utility  providers  (gas,  electric  and
telecommunications).  Surveys have been mailed to these key  business  partners.
Based on responses  received,  current  levels of readiness are being  assessed,
follow-up contacts are underway,  alternative strategies are being developed and
testing is being scheduled  where feasible.  This effort is expected to continue
well into 1999. As noted above,  software vendor assessments are considered part
of the IT projects  and,  therefore,  would follow the schedule  shown above for
such projects.

While LNC is working to meet the  schedules  outlined  above,  some  uncertainty
remains.  Specific factors that give rise to this uncertainty include a possible
loss of  technical  resources  to  perform  the work,  failure to  identify  all
susceptible   systems,   non-compliance  by  third  parties  whose  systems  and
operations impact LNC and other similar uncertainties.

A worst case  scenario  might  include  LNC's  inability  to  achieve  Year 2000
readiness with respect to one or more of LNC's significant policyholder systems,
resulting in a material disruption to LNC's operations.  Specifically, LNC could
experience  an  interruption  in its ability to collect and process  premiums or
deposits,






process claim payments, accurately maintain policyholder information, accurately
maintain  accounting records,  and/or perform adequate customer service.  Should
the worst case  scenario  occur,  it could,  depending on its  duration,  have a
material  impact on LNC's results of operations and financial  position.  Simple
failures  can be repaired and  returned to  production  within a matter of hours
with no material impact. Unanticipated failures with a longer service disruption
period  would  have a more  serious  impact.  For this  reason,  LNC is  placing
significant emphasis on risk management and Year 2000 contingency planning.  LNC
is in the process of modifying its contingency  plans to address  potential year
2000 issues.  Where these efforts identify high risks due either to unacceptable
work  around  procedures  or  significant  readiness  risks,   appropriate  risk
management  techniques are being  defined.  These  techniques,  such as resource
shifting or use of  alternate  providers,  will be employed to provide  stronger
assurances of readiness.  LNC has gone through  exercises to identify worst case
scenario  failures.  At this time,  LNC  believes  its plans are  sufficient  to
mitigate identified worst case scenarios.

REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL CONDITION

Some of the increases in the balance sheet accounts described below are a result
of the purchase of two blocks of individual life insurance and annuity  business
in  January  and  October  of 1998  (see note 11 to the  consolidated  financial
statements on page 66).

Investments
The  investment  portfolio,  excluding  cash and invested  cash, is comprised of
fixed  maturity  and equity  securities;  mortgage  loans on real  estate;  real
estate, either wholly owned or joint ventures;  and other long-term investments.
LNC purchases  investments for its segmented portfolios with yield, duration and
other  characteristics  that take into account the  liabilities  of the products
being supported.  The total investment portfolio increased $8.1 billion in 1998.
This  increase  was the net result of  increases  from 1) the  addition  of $7.7
billion in invested  assets  related to the two blocks of  business  acquired in
1998, 2) the increase in fair value of securities  available-for-sale and 3) the
new  purchases of  investments  from cash flow  generated by the business  units
being  partially  offset by the  continuation  of fixed annuity  contractholders
opting to transfer funds to variable annuity contracts.

LNC maintains a high-quality fixed maturity securities portfolio. As of December
31, 1998, $9.9 billion or 32.7% of its fixed maturity  securities  portfolio had
ratings of AA or better. Fixed maturity securities with below-  investment-grade
ratings  (BB or less)  were $2.1  billion  or 7.0% of the total  fixed  maturity
securities  portfolio (see note 3 to the  consolidated  financial  statements on
page 47). The below-investment-grade fixed maturity securities represent 5.6% of
LNC's total investment  portfolio.  The interest rates available on these below-
investment-grade securities are significantly higher than are available on other
corporate debt securities. Also, the risk of loss due to default by the borrower
is significantly  greater with respect to such below investment grade securities
because these securities are generally  unsecured,  often  subordinated to other
creditors of the issuer and issued by companies that usually have high levels of
indebtedness.  LNC  attempts to minimize the risks  associated  with these below
investment  grade  securities  by limiting the exposure to any one issuer and by
closely  monitoring  the credit  worthiness of such issuers.  For the year ended
December 31, 1998,  the  aggregate  cost of below  investment  grade  securities
purchased was $1.6 billion.  Aggregate  proceeds from such investments sold were
$1.1 billion,  resulting in a realized pre-tax loss at the time of sale of $55.2
million.

LNC's entire fixed  maturity and equity  securities  portfolio is  classified as
"available-for-sale"  and is carried at fair value.  Changes in fair values, net
of related deferred  acquisition costs, amounts required to satisfy policyholder
commitments and taxes are charged or credited directly to shareholders'  equity.
Note 3 to the  consolidated  financial  statements  on page 46 shows  the  gross
unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 1998.

LNC's  fixed  maturity  securities  available-for-sale  include  mortgage-backed
securities.   The  mortgage-backed   securities  included  in  LNC's  investment
portfolio are subject to risks  associated with variable  prepayments.  This may
result in these securities having a different actual cash flow and maturity than
planned at the time of purchase.  Securities that have an amortized cost greater
than par and backed by mortgages  that prepay  faster than expected will incur a
reduction in yield or a loss. Those securities with an amortized cost lower than
par that prepay  faster than  expected  will  generate an increase in yield or a
gain. In addition,  LNC may incur  reinvestment risks if market yields are lower
than the book yields earned on the securities. Prepayments occurring slower than
expected have the opposite impact. LNC may incur  disinvestment  risks if market
yields are  higher  than the book  yields  earned on the  securities  and LNC is
forced to sell the securities.  The degree to which a security is susceptible to
either gains or losses is influenced by 1) the difference  between its amortized
cost and par, 2) the relative  sensitivity of the underlying  mortgages  backing
the assets to






prepayment in a changing interest rate environment and 3) the repayment priority
of the securities in the overall securitization structure.

LNC limits the extent of its risk on  mortgage-backed  securities  by  prudently
limiting  exposure to the asset  class,  by  generally  avoiding the purchase of
securities with a cost that significantly  exceeds par, by purchasing securities
backed by stable  collateral,  and by  concentrating on securities with enhanced
priority in their trust  structure.  Such securities with reduced risk typically
have a lower  yield (but  higher  liquidity)  than  higher-risk  mortgage-backed
securities.  At selected times,  higher-risk securities may be purchased if they
do not compromise the safety of the general portfolio. At December 31, 1998, LNC
did not have a significant  amount of  higher-risk  mortgage-backed  securities.
There are negligible default risks in the mortgage-backed  securities  portfolio
as a whole as the vast  majority  of the assets are  either  guaranteed  by U.S.
government- sponsored entities or are supported in the securitization  structure
by junior  securities  enabling  the assets to  achieve  high  investment  grade
status.  Note 3 to the  consolidated  financial  statements  on  page  48  shows
additional detail about the underlying collateral.

As of December 31, 1998,  mortgage loans on real estate and  investments in real
estate  represented  11.5% and 1.3% of the  total  investment  portfolio.  As of
December 31, 1998,  the underlying  properties  supporting the mortgage loans on
real estate consisted of 25.4% in commercial office  buildings,  33.5% in retail
stores,   18.8%  in  apartments,   12.6%  in  industrial   buildings,   4.0%  in
hotels/motels  and 5.7% in  other.  In  addition  to the  dispersion  by type of
property,  the mortgage loan portfolio is geographically  diversified throughout
the United States.

Cash and Invested Cash
Cash and invested cash  decreased by $1.4 billion in 1998.  This decrease is the
result of paying out the funds that had been  accumulated  at the end of 1997 in
anticipation of the purchase of a block of individual life and annuity  business
on January 2, 1998 (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page
66).

Deferred Acquisition Costs
Deferred  acquisition  costs increased $340.6 million in 1998. This increase was
the net result of an increase  related to the growth in business being partially
offset by reductions  related to the increase in  unrealized  gain on securities
available-for-sale.

Premiums and Fees Receivable
Premiums and fees  receivable  increased  $48.7 million in 1998 as the result of
increased  volumes of business in the Life Insurance & Annuities and Reinsurance
segments.

Assets Held in Separate Accounts
This asset account, as well as the corresponding liability account, increased by
$6.3 billion in 1998 as a result of increases in annuity and pension funds under
management.  This increase resulted from new deposits,  market  appreciation and
the  continuation of fixed annuity  contractholders  opting to transfer funds to
variable annuity contracts.

Amounts Recoverable from Reinsurers
The increase of $776.3 million in amounts  recoverable  from  reinsurers was the
result  of an  increased  volume of  business  ceded in the Life  Insurance  and
Annuities segment.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The increase of $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion,  respectively,  is the net result
of  additions  related to  business  acquired  (see note 11 to the  consolidated
financial statements on page 66) being more than the on-going amortization.

Other Assets
The  decrease in other  assets of $76.8  million is the result of having a lower
receivable  related to investment  securities  sold in the last few days of 1998
versus the end of 1997.

Total Liabilities
Total  liabilities  increased  by  $16.3  billion  in  1998.  The  primary  item
underlying  this increase is the addition of the blocks of  individual  life and
annuity  business  described  above.  Insurance  policy reserves  increased $8.9
billion  as a result  of the new  blocks of  business  and  increased  levels of
business in the Life  Insurance  and  Annuities  segment.  Contractholder  funds
increased  $689.7  million  which is the net result of additions  related to the
block of  business  acquired  and new  deposits  being  partially  offset by the
withdrawal upon maturity of guaranteed interest  contracts.  Liabilities related
to separate  accounts  increased $6.3 billion (see  discussion of Assets Held in
Separate Accounts above). Total debt increased $648.5 million as the result of






issuing  new debt in the  first and  third  quarters  of 1998 (see note 5 to the
consolidated  financial  statements  on page 51). The decrease in the  remaining
liabilities of $225.4 is the net amount from an increase in the expected payouts
for  securities  purchased in the last few days of 1998 versus a lower volume of
such  transactions late in 1997 being more than offset by the Federal income tax
decrease.

While it is management's  judgement that,  based on available  information,  the
appropriate level of liabilities have been recorded, LNC has areas where changes
in estimates of related liabilities required could occur in the near term. These
areas include claims for disability income coverages, liabilities and recoveries
related to inappropriate selling of products in the United Kingdom,  liabilities
for personal accident programs,  liabilities for marketing and compliance issues
and the reserve for the run-off of group  pension  annuities  (see note 7 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 54).

Shareholders' Equity
Total  shareholders'  equity  increased  $405.0  million  during  the year ended
December  31,  1998.  Excluding  the  increase of $116.4  million  related to an
increase  in the  unrealized  gain  (loss) on  securities  available-for-  sale,
shareholders'  equity increased  $288.6 million.  This increase in shareholders'
equity  was the net result of  increases  due to $509.8  million of net  income,
$48.7  million from the issuance of common  stock  related to benefit  plans and
$3.8 million  related to an increase in the  accumulated  foreign  exchange gain
being  offset by $211.8  million  related to the  declaration  of  dividends  to
shareholders,  $14.8 million of issuance  costs related to an offering of FELINE
PRIDES and $46.9 million for the retirement of common stock.

Capital adequacy is a primary measure used by insurance  regulators to determine
the financial stability of an insurance company. In the U.S., risk-based capital
guidelines are used by the National  Association of Insurance  Commissioners  to
determine the amount of capital that  represents  minimum  acceptable  operating
amounts  related  to  insurance  and  investment  risks.  Regulatory  action  is
triggered   when  an  insurer's   statutory-   basis  capital  falls  below  the
formula-produced  capital level. At December 31, 1998,  statutory-basis  capital
for each of LNC's U.S.  insurance  subsidiaries  was  substantially in excess of
regulatory  action levels of risk- based capital required by the jurisdiction of
domicile.

As noted above,  shareholders'  equity  includes net  unrealized  gain (loss) on
securities  available-for-sale.  At December 31, 1998,  the book value of $53.18
per share included  $5.45 of unrealized  gains on securities and at December 31,
1997, the book value of $49.27 per share  included $4.31 of unrealized  gains on
securities.

A  significant  portion  of both  realized  and  unrealized  gains or  losses on
investments that support long-term life insurance, pension and annuity contracts
are expected to be applied to contract  benefits.  These realized and unrealized
gains  or  losses  are  included  in  net  income  and   shareholders'   equity,
respectively.  Current accounting  standards do not require or permit adjustment
of  policyholder  reserves to  recognize  the full effect of these  realized and
unrealized  gains or losses on  future  benefit  payments  in the  absence  of a
contractual obligation requiring their attribution to policyholders.

LIQUIDITY AND CASH FLOW
Liquidity refers to the ability of an enterprise to generate adequate amounts of
cash from its normal  operations to meet cash requirements with a prudent margin
of safety.  Because of the interval of time from receipt of a deposit or premium
until payment of benefits or claims,  LNC and other insurers  employ  investment
portfolios as an integral  element of  operations.  By segmenting its investment
portfolios  along product  lines,  LNC enhances the focus and  discipline it can
apply to managing the  liquidity as well as the interest rate and credit risk of
each portfolio  commensurate  with the profile of the liabilities.  For example,
portfolios  backing  products  with less certain  cash flows  and/or  withdrawal
provisions  are kept more  liquid than  portfolios  backing  products  with more
predictable cash flows.

The  consolidated  statements of cash flows on page 39 indicate  that  operating
activities provided cash of $1.3 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion in 1998,
1997 and 1996,  respectively.  This statement also  classifies the other sources
and uses of cash by investing  activities and financing activities and discloses
the amount of cash available at the end of the year to meet LNC's obligations.

Although  LNC  generates  adequate  cash  flow to meet the  needs of its  normal
operations,  periodically  LNC may  issue  debt  or  equity  securities  to fund
internal expansion, acquisitions, investment opportunities and the retirement of
LNC's debt and equity.  In April 1998, LNC filed a shelf  registration  for $1.3
billion which included the right to offer regular debt,  preferred stock, common
stock or various forms of hybrid  securities.  This $1.3 billion filing included
an aggregate of $300 million that had not been utilized from a previously  filed
shelf registration. In December, 1998 LNC combined the unused portion of another
previously filed shelf






registration.  The combination of these two filings,  less securities offered in
1998 (see below),  resulted in an unused balance as of December 31, 1998 of $825
million that would allow LNC to issue various securities.  The hybrid securities
offerings  utilize six subsidiaries  (Lincoln National Capital I, II, III, IV, V
and VI) which were formed for the specific  purpose of issuing such  securities.
All of these  subsidiaries'  common  securities are owned by LNC. Cash funds are
also  available  from LNC's  revolving  credit  agreement,  which  provides  for
borrowing  up  to  $750  million  (see  note  5 to  the  consolidated  financial
statements on page 52).

In 1998, LNC issued $300 million of  long-term  debt,  $200  million of Series C
Trust Originated  Preferred  Securities and $230 million of FELINE PRIDES.  Also
LNC purchased and retired; 623,281; 4,948,900 and 694,582 shares of common stock
at a cost of $46.9 million;  $325.3 million and $35.0 million in 1998,  1997 and
1996,  respectively.  The  5,572,181  shares  purchased in 1997 - 1998  includes
4,993,281  shares at a cost of $341.8 million that have been purchased since the
June 1997 board  authorization to repurchase up to $500 million of common stock.
This leaves a Board  authorization to repurchase an additional $158.2 million of
LNC's common stock as of December 31, 1998. Also LNC issued  1,323,144 shares of
LNC common stock in 1997 to purchase subsidiary companies.

Another  transaction that occurred in 1997 that had a major impact on LNC's cash
flow  was  the  sale of a  subsidiary  for  $2.65  billion  (see  note 11 to the
consolidated  financial  statements  on page 65). LNC used these  proceeds to 1)
repurchase  $341.8  million of its own common stock,  2) retire $86.7 million in
long-term debt, 3) fund the purchase of a 49% interest in Seguros Serfin Lincoln
for $85.0  million,  4) pay the $447.6  million of taxes  related to the gain on
sale of  discontinued  operations  and 5)  purchase a block of  individual  life
insurance and annuity business for $1.4 billion (see note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements on page 66). The remaining balance was initially applied to
pay off a portion of LNC's  short-term  debt and invested for general  corporate
purposes,  then later used to fund a portion of the purchase of another block of
individual life insurance business.

In order to maximize the use of available  cash,  the holding  company  (Lincoln
National  Corporation)  maintains a facility where  subsidiaries can borrow from
the  holding  company  to meet  their  short-term  needs  and can  invest  their
short-term  funds  with the  holding  company.  Depending  on the  overall  cash
availability  or need,  the holding  company  invests  excess cash in short-term
investments  or  borrows  funds  in  the  financial  markets.   In  addition  to
facilitating the management of cash, the holding company receives dividends from
its  subsidiaries,  invests in  operating  companies,  maintains  an  investment
portfolio and pays shareholder dividends and certain corporate expenses.


The table above shows the cash flow  activity for the holding  company from 1996
through  1998.  The line,  "net tax receipts from  (payments to)  subsidiaries",
recognizes  that the holding  company  receives tax payments from  subsidiaries,
pays the  consolidated  tax liability and  reimburses  subsidiaries  for the tax
effect of any taxable operating and capital losses.






LNC's  insurance  subsidiaries  are  subject  to  certain  insurance  department
regulatory  restrictions as to the transfer of funds and payment of dividends to
the holding company.  Generally, these restrictions pose no short-term liquidity
concerns for the holding company.  However, as discussed in detail within note 7
on page 54, the acquisition of two blocks of business in 1998 will place further
restrictions  on the  ability of LNC's  primary  insurance  subsidiary,  Lincoln
National Life Insurance  Company ("Lincoln Life"), to declare and pay dividends.
As a result of these acquisitions,  Lincoln Life's statutory earned surplus will
be  negative  and it will be  necessary  for  Lincoln  Life to obtain  the prior
approval of the Indiana  Insurance  Commissioner  before paying any dividends to
LNC until such time its  statutory  earned  surplus is positive.  It is expected
that statutory  earned surplus will return to a positive  position within two to
three  years  from the  closing  of the Aetna  transaction  assuming  a level of
statutory  earnings  coinciding  with recent  earnings  patterns.  If  statutory
earnings are less than recent  patterns due, for example,  to adverse  operating
conditions or further  indemnity  reinsurance  transactions of this nature,  the
statutory  earned  surplus  may not  return to a  positive  position  as soon as
expected.  Although no  assurance  can be given,  management  believes  that the
approvals for the payment of dividends in amounts  consistent with those paid in
the  past  can be  obtained.  In the  event  such  approvals  are not  obtained,
management  believes  that LNC can obtain  the funds  required  to  satisfy  its
obligations from its existing credit facilities and other sources.

Effect of Inflation
LNC's  insurance  affiliates,  as  well  as  other  companies  in the  insurance
industry,  attempt to minimize  the effect of  inflation  on their  revenues and
expenses by anticipating  inflationary  trends in the pricing of their products.
Inflation,  except for changes in interest  rates,  does not have a  significant
effect on LNC's balance sheet due to the minimal  amount of dollars  invested in
property, plant and equipment and the absence of inventories.


Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk Exposures of Financial Instruments
LNC  analyzes and manages the risks  arising from market  exposures of financial
instruments, as well as other risks, in an integrated asset-liability management
process that takes  diversification  into account.  By aggregating the potential
effect of market  and  other  risks of the  entire  enterprise,  LNC  estimates,
reviews  and in some cases  manages  the risk to its  earnings  and  shareholder
value.  LNC has material  exposures to several market risks  including  interest
rate, default risk, foreign currency exchange and equity price risks.

The exposures of financial  instruments  to market  risks,  and the related risk
management  processes,  are most  important in the Life  Insurance and Annuities
segment.  This segment is where most of the invested assets support accumulation
and  investment  oriented  insurance  products.  As an important  element of its
integrated  asset-liability management process, LNC uses derivatives to minimize
the effects of changes in interest rate levels and the shape of the yield curve.
In this  context,  derivatives  are  designated  as a hedge  and serve to reduce
interest rate risk by mitigating  the effect of large rises in interest rates on
LNC's  stream of  earnings.  Additional  market  exposures  exist in LNC's other
general  account  insurance  products and in its debt structure and  derivatives
positions.  The primary sources of market risk are: 1)  substantial,  relatively
rapid and sustained increases or decreases in interest rates, 2) fluctuations in
currency  exchange rates 3) a sharp drop in equity market values.  Each of these
market risks are discussed in detail in the following pages.

1)  Interest Rate Risk
Accumulation and Investment Oriented Insurance Products.  General account assets
supporting  accumulation and investment  oriented insurance products total $26.0
billion or 69% and $22.4 billion or 75% of total invested assets at December 31,
1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Fixed maturity and equity  securities are held at
fair  value on the  balance  sheet,  mortgage  loans on real  estate are held at
amortized  cost  and  real  estate  is  held  at cost  less  depreciation  while
liabilities  are generally held at account  values less  surrender  charges (see
note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 42). The fair values for
mortgage  loans on real  estate  and  guaranteed  interest  rate  contracts  are
calculated  on a  discounted  cash flow basis  while fixed  annuities  and other
deposit  liabilities  are at  policy  cash  surrender  value  (see note 8 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 60).

With respect to these products, LNC seeks to earn a stable and profitable spread
between  investment  income and interest  credited to account values. If LNC has
adverse  experience on  investments  that cannot be passed onto  customers,  its
spreads are reduced.  Alternatively,  LNC may seek to maintain  spreads and this
may result in crediting rates that are not competitive in the market place. This
strategy  could  result in adverse  surrender  experience  on policies and could
force LNC to liquidate a portion of its portfolio to fund excess cash  surrender
value benefits.







LNC does not view the near term risk to spreads  over the next twelve  months to
be material.  The  combination of a probable range of interest rate changes over
the next twelve months,  asset-liability  management strategies,  flexibility in
adjusting  crediting  rate levels and  protection  afforded by policy  surrender
charges and other  switching  costs all work together to minimize this risk. The
interest  rate  scenarios of concern are those in which there is a  substantial,
relatively  rapid  increase or decrease in interest rates that is then sustained
over a long period.

Fixed Deferred Annuities.  Assets of $17.2 billion and $15.6 billion at December
31, 1998 and 1997,  respectively,  supports the biggest category of accumulation
and investment oriented insurance products,  fixed deferred annuities. For these
products, LNC may adjust renewal crediting rates monthly or annually, subject to
guaranteed minimums ranging from 3% to 5%. The higher minimums apply to in-force
blocks of older products that no longer are sold.  Annuity  insurance  customers
have the right to  surrender  their  policies at account  value less a surrender
charge that grades to zero over  periods  ranging from 5 to 10 years from policy
issue date or, in some cases,  the date of each premium  received.  Due to LNC's
ability  to  change  crediting  rates  to  reflect  investment  experience,  the
underlying  assets are  assumed to be a good  proxy for the  interest  rate risk
inherent in these  liabilities.  This  assumption  is  appropriate  for probable
movements in interest rates over the next 12 months.  This assumption may not be
appropriate for a substantial, relatively rapid increase or decrease in interest
rates that is then sustained over a long period.

Universal  Life. LNC had $6.1 billion and $3.4 billion in assets at December 31,
1998 and 1997, respectively, supporting universal life insurance on which it has
the right to adjust  renewal  crediting  rates  subject to  guaranteed  minimums
ranging from 4% to 6% at December 31, 1998. Similar to annuities, universal life
insurance  customers have the right to surrender their policies at account value
less a surrender  charge that grades to zero over periods  ranging from 10 to 20
years  from  policy  issue  date or,  in some  cases,  the date of each  premium
received.

Guaranteed  Interest  Contracts  and Group  Pension  Annuities.  LNC had  assets
totaling  $2.7  billion  and  $3.4  billion  at  December  31,  1998  and  1997,
respectively,   that  support  guaranteed  interest  contracts,   group  pension
annuities and immediate annuities.  Generally,  the cash flows expected on these
liabilities do not vary with  fluctuations  in market interest rates and are not
adjustable by LNC.  Accordingly,  if experience on the assets  supporting  these
products is more  adverse  than the  assumptions  used in pricing the  products,
spreads will tend to be below expectations. LNC limits exposure to interest rate
risk by  managing  the  duration  and  maturity  structure  of  each  investment
portfolio in relation to the liabilities it supports.

Other General Account Insurance Products. LNC had $11.9 billion and $7.4 billion
of assets  at  December  31,  1998 and 1997,  respectively,  supporting  general
account products, including disability income and term life insurance. For these
products,  the liability  cash flows may have  actuarial  uncertainty.  However,
their  amounts and timing do not vary  significantly  with interest  rates.  LNC
limits  interest rate risk by analyzing the duration of the projected cash flows
and structuring investment portfolios with similar durations.

Interest Rate  Risk--Falling  Rates.  Interest rates fell in 1995, rose again in
1996 and declined in 1997 and 1998.  For example,  the five-year  Treasury yield
declined from 7.8% in 1994 to 5.4% at the end of 1995,  increased to 6.2% by the
end of 1996,  decreased to 5.7% by the end of 1997 and  decreased to 4.5% by the
end of 1998.  Under  scenarios in which interest rates fall and remain at levels
significantly  lower  than  those  prevailing  at  December  31,  1998,  minimum
guarantees on annuity and universal life insurance policies  (generally 3% to 5%
or an average of  approximately  4%) could cause the spread between the yield on
the portfolio and the interest rate credited to  policyholders  to  deteriorate.
Select   contracts  that  specify  these  minimum   guarantees  can  be  amended
periodically to reflect current interest rate conditions. The earned rate on the
annuity  and  universal  life  insurance   portfolios   averaged  8%  and  7.7%,
respectively,  for the year ended  December  31,  1998,  providing a cushion for
further  decline before the earned rates would be  insufficient to cover minimum
guaranteed  rates  plus the  target  spread.  The  maturity  structure  and call
provisions of the related portfolios are structured to afford protection against
erosion of this cushion for a period of time. However,  spreads would be at risk
if interest rates  continued to fall and remained  lower for a long period.  LNC
manages  these  exposures by  maintaining a suitable  maturity  structure and by
limiting its exposure to call risk in each respective investment portfolio.

LNC believes that the  portfolios  supporting  its  accumulation  and investment
oriented   insurance   products  have  a  prudent  degree  of  call   protection
individually  and  on  a  consolidated  basis.  As  of  December  31,  1998  the
mortgage-backed  securities ("MBS") and asset-backed  securities ("ABS") portion
of the portfolio represented a total of $5.1 billion or 20% of the $26.0 billion
of general account assets supporting such products. Of this






portfolio,  15% of  general  account  assets  or  $4.0  billion  is  subject  to
residential  prepayment risk from  investments made in  Collateralized  Mortgage
Obligations  ("CMOs"),  mortgage  pass-throughs,  manufactured  housing and home
equity  loans.  As of December 31, 1997 the MBS and ABS portion of the portfolio
represented  a total of $4.5  billion  or 20% of the $22.4  billion  of  general
account assets  supporting  such  products.  LNC's MBS portfolio has equal to or
slightly  less  prepayment  risk than the MBS  pass-through  market  in  general
primarily due to holding more seasoned  securities in the portfolio.  Due to the
combination  of  recent  lower  interest  rates  and  increased   efficiency  by
mortgage-holders in exercising their prepayment options,  the riskiness of these
securities  has  increased  over the  last  few  years  without  a  compensating
adjustment  to risk  premiums.  This  trend  has  also  reduced  the  degree  of
protection  provided by the purchase of protected  amortization class CMOs. As a
result, LNC has reduced its exposure to the MBS asset class in recent years.

Interest  Rate  Risk--Rising  Rates.  For  both  annuities  and  universal  life
insurance,  a rapid  and  sustained  rise  in  interest  rates  poses  risks  of
deteriorating  spreads and high  surrenders.  The  portfolios  supporting  these
products have fixed-rate assets laddered over maturities  generally ranging from
one to ten years or more.  Accordingly,  the earned rate on each  portfolio lags
behind  changes in market  yields.  As rates rise,  the lag may be  increased by
slowing MBS prepayments.  The greater and faster the rise in interest rates, the
more the earned rate will tend to lag behind market  rates.  If LNC sets renewal
crediting  rates  to earn  the  desired  spread,  the gap  between  its  renewal
crediting  rates and  competitors'  new money  rates may be wide enough to cause
increased  surrenders.  If LNC credits more  competitive  renewal rates to limit
surrenders,  its spreads will narrow. LNC devotes extensive effort to evaluating
these risks by  simulating  asset and  liability  cash flows for a wide range of
interest  rate  scenarios.  Such analysis has led to  adjustments  in the target
maturity   structure  and  to  hedging  the  risk  of  rising  rates  by  buying
out-of-the-money  interest rate cap  agreements  and swaptions  (see  discussion
below).  With this hedge, the potential  adverse impact of a rapid and sustained
rise in rates is kept within  corporate risk  tolerances.  LNC believes that the
risks of rising  interest  rates are also  mitigated by its emphasis on periodic
premium products.

Debt.  As of December 31, 1998,  LNC had  short-term  debt,  long-term  debt and
minority  interest-preferred  securities of subsidiary  companies  totaling $1.8
billion ($1.6 billion with fixed rates and $214.4 million with floating  rates).
As of December 31, 1997, LNC had short-term  debt,  long-term debt and minority,
interest-  preferred  securities of subsidiary  companies  totaling $1.1 billion
($835.6  million with fixed rates and $287.6 million with floating  rates).  LNC
manages the timing of maturities and the mixture of fixed-rate and floating-rate
debt as part of the process of  integrated  management of interest rate risk for
the entire enterprise.

Derivatives.  As indicated in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements on
page 57, LNC has entered into derivative  transactions to reduce its exposure to
rapid rises in interest  rates.  The four programs  discussed  below are used to
help LNC achieve more stable margins while providing competitive crediting rates
to  policyholders  during  periods when  interest  rates are rising.  Failure to
maintain competitive crediting rates could cause policyholders to withdraw their
funds and place them in more competitive products.

LNC uses interest rate cap agreements to hedge against the negative  impact of a
significant  and  sustained  rise in  interest  rates.  Interest  rate  caps are
contracts that require  counterparties  to pay LNC at specified future dates the
amount,  if any, by which a specified  market interest rate exceeds the cap rate
stated in the agreements, applied to a notional amount. As of December 31, 1998,
LNC had agreements with notional  amounts of $4.1 billion with cap rates ranging
from 250 to 800 basis points above  prevailing  interest rates. The cap rates in
some contracts increase over time. These agreements expire in 1999 through 2006.

LNC also uses  swaptions to hedge  against the negative  impact of a significant
and sustained rise in interest rates. Swaptions are options to enter into a swap
at a specified future date. If the option is exercised at expiration, the option
is either  settled in cash or exercised  into a swap  agreement.  LNC  purchases
swaptions to be settled in cash. At expiration,  the counterparty is required to
pay LNC the amount,  if any, of the present value of the difference  between the
fixed rate on a market rate swap and the strike  rate  stated in the  agreement,
applied to a notional  amount.  As of December 31, 1998, LNC had agreements with
notional amounts of $1.9 billion with strike rates ranging from 350 to 900 basis
points above prevailing interest rates. These agreements expire in 1999 through 
2003.

For future  periods,  the fair value of LNC's  interest  rate caps and swaptions
depends  on the  levels  of  interest  rates on U.S.  Treasury  securities  with
maturities  of two,  five,  seven and ten years and U.S.  dollar swap rates with
five, seven and ten year maturities.  The table below analyzes fair value levels
at  December  31, 1998 and for the next five years if the rates were 2%, 4%, 6%,
8%,10% or 12% higher than they were at December






31, 1998. In relation to the level of these rates at December 31, 1998,  the cap
and swaption rates were from 2.5% to 9.0%  out-of-the-money,  i.e.,  higher. The
table below  shows the fair value  levels of  interest  rate caps and  swaptions
under these scenarios.


LNC uses  exchange-traded  financial  futures contracts and options on financial
futures to hedge against interest rate risks and to manage duration of a portion
of its fixed maturity  securities.  Financial futures contracts  obligate LNC to
buy or sell a financial  instrument  at a specified  future date for a specified
price.  They  may be  settled  in  cash or  through  delivery  of the  financial
instrument. Cash settlements on the change in market values of financial futures
contracts are made daily.  Put options on a financial  futures contract give LNC
the right,  but not the  obligation,  to assume a long or short  position in the
underlying futures contract at a specified price during a specified time period.
As of  December  31,  1998,  LNC did not have any open  futures  or  options  on
futures.

LNC uses  interest  rate swap  agreements to hedge its exposure to floating rate
bond coupon payments,  replicating a fixed rate bond. An interest rate swap is a
contractual  agreement  to  exchange  payments at one or more times based on the
actual or expected price, level,  performance or value of one or more underlying
interests. LNC is required to pay the counterparty the stream of variable coupon
payments  generated from the bonds,  and in turn,  receives a fixed payment from
the counterparty,  at a predetermined interest rate. LNC also uses interest rate
swap agreements to hedge its exposure to interest rate  fluctuations  related to
the  anticipated  purchase  of assets  that  support  newly  acquired  blocks of
business.  As of December  31,  1998,  LNC had swap  agreements  with a notional
amount of $258.3 million that expires in 2000 through 2009.

In addition to continuing existing programs,  LNC may use derivative products in
other  strategies  to  limit  risk  and  enhance  returns,  particularly  in the
management  of  investment  spread  businesses.  LNC has  established  policies,
guidelines and internal  control  procedures for the use of derivatives as tools
to  enhance  management  of the  overall  portfolio  of risks  assumed  in LNC's
operations.

The table below provides a general  measure of LNC's  significant  interest rate
risk (principal  amounts are shown by year of maturity and include  amortization
of premiums and discounts) as of December 31, 1998.








The table below shows the principal amount and fair value for LNC's  significant
interest rate risks as of December 31, 1997.


(1) The  information  shown is for the fixed  maturity  securities  and mortgage
    loans that support these insurance  contracts. 
(2) Includes minority 
    interest - preferred securities of subsidiary companies.
(3) Swaptions notional is shown converted to cap equivalent.
(4) The  indexes  are a mixture of  five-year  and  ten-year  Constant  Maturity
    Treasury  ("CMT") and Constant  Maturity Swap ("CMS"). 
(5) The CMT curve is
    the five-year constant maturity treasury forward curve.


2) Foreign Currency Risk
Foreign  Currency  Denominated  Investments.  LNC  invests in  foreign  currency
securities for incremental  return and risk  diversification  relative to United
States  Dollar-Denominated   ("USD")  securities.  The  fair  value  of  foreign
securities,  which are denominated in six different foreign currencies,  totaled
$166.8 million as of December 31, 1998. LNC  periodically  uses a combination of
foreign  exchange  forward  contracts,  foreign  currency  options,  and foreign
currency  swaps  to hedge  some of the  foreign  exchange  risk  related  to its
investments in securities  denominated in foreign currencies.  The currency risk
is hedged using foreign currency  derivatives of the same currency as the bonds.
Unhedged,  a 10%  adverse  move in the  currency  would  create a $16.7  million
pre-tax loss. The aggregate USD equivalent of forward currency positions hedging
the portfolio was $47.4 million; the unhedged amount of the portfolio was $119.4
million.  A 10% adverse  currency  move has thus been  reduced to $11.9  million
pre-tax  through  hedging.  This number is  approximate  because not all foreign
currency  derivatives are struck at the current spot rate. The table below shows
LNC's  exposure to foreign  currency  securities.  Also included is the relevant
information  relating  the  foreign  currency  derivatives  that are hedging the
currency  risk of these  securities.  The table  below  presents  the  principal
(notional)  amount in U.S.  dollar  equivalents  by expected  maturity for LNC's
foreign currency denominated investments as of December 31, 1998.







The table below presents the principal (notional) amount in U.S. dollar 
equivalents as of December 31, 1997.


Foreign Currency Forward Contracts.  LNC uses foreign currency forward contracts
to hedge some of the foreign  exchange risk related to its  investments in fixed
maturity securities denominated in foreign currencies.  LNC typically engages in
short-term  currency  forward  contracts  of less than six months  and  actively
monitors currency markets in determining those currencies to hedge, the duration
of the  hedge and the  nominal  amount to  hedge.  A  foreign  currency  forward
contract  obligates  LNC to deliver a  specified  amount of currency at a future
date at a specified  exchange  rate. The value of the foreign  exchange  forward
contracts at any given point  fluctuates  according to the  underlying  level of
exchange rate and interest rate  differentials.  LNC  periodically  uses foreign
exchange  forward  contracts to hedge against  foreign  exchange risk related to
LNC's  investment  in its  British  subsidiary,  Lincoln  National  (UK).  As of
December 31, 1998, LNC did not have any open foreign exchange forward  contracts
related to its investment in Lincoln National (UK).

Foreign Currency Options. A foreign currency option gives LNC the right, but not
the obligation,  to buy or sell a foreign  currency at a specific  exchange rate
during a specified  time  period.  LNC has  historically  used options that were
slightly "out-of-the-money"  resulting in a "corridor" of currency risk assumed,
but limited the risk above the strike price.  At December 31, 1998,  LNC did not
have any open positions in foreign currency options.

Foreign  Currency Swaps. A foreign  currency swap is a contractual  agreement to
exchange the currencies of two different  countries  pursuant to an agreement to
re-exchange  the two  currencies  at the same rate of  exchange  at a  specified
future date. LNC uses foreign currency swaps to convert the cash flow of foreign
currency securities to U.S. dollars. LNC had foreign currency swaps with a total
notional  amount of $47.2  million and $15.0  million for  December 31, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

3) Equity Market Exposures
LNC's revenues, assets, liabilities and derivatives are exposed to equity market
risk.

Fee Revenues.  The fee revenues of LNC's Investment  Management segment and fees
earned from  variable  annuities  are exposed to the risk of a decline in equity
market values.  These fees are generally a fixed  percentage of the market value
of assets under management.  In a severe equity market decline, fee income could
be  reduced  by  not  only  reduced  market  valuations  but  also  by  customer
withdrawals.  Such withdrawals from equity funds and accounts might be partially
offset by transfers to LNC's fixed-income  accounts and the transfer of funds to
LNC by its competitors' customers.

Assets.  While LNC invests in equity  assets with the  expectation  of achieving
higher returns than would be available in its core fixed-income investments, the
returns  on, and values of,  these  equity  investments  are subject to somewhat
greater  market  risk  than its fixed  income  investments.  These  investments,
however,  add diversification  benefits to LNC's fixed income  investments.  The
table below shows the sensitivity of price changes to LNC's equity assets owned.







Liabilities. LNC has an exposure to foreign currency equity risk with respect to
unit-linked  annuity  policies  issued  in the UK.  The  aggregate  U.S.  dollar
equivalent  amount of  account  value was $11.1  million  and $14.1  million  at
December 31, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  LNC also has exposure to U.S. equity
markets through reinsurance  contracts that reinsure  equity-indexed  annuities.
The aggregate  amount of account  value of these  annuities is $89.4 million and
$6.6 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  These risks are being
hedged with equity derivatives as discussed below.

Derivatives Hedging Equity Risks.  LNC has two programs hedging equity market
risk in annuities issued in the U.K. and U.S. that contain equity features.

LNC uses Over-the-Counter  ("OTC") foreign currency equity call options to hedge
against  the  foreign  equity  market  risk  component  contained  in  its  U.K.
unit-linked annuities which are a function of the Financial Times Stock Exchange
("FTSE")  index.  These call options  require the  counterparties  to pay LNC at
specified future expiration dates the amount, if any, of the percentage increase
in the FTSE index over the strike price  defined in the  contract,  applied to a
notional  amount.  LNC had agreements with notional amounts of $11.1 million and
$14.1  million at December  31, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  The call  options
expirations are matched to the liabilities and expire in 1999 through 2001.

LNC uses OTC  equity  call  options  on the S&P 500 index to hedge  against  the
increase in its liabilities resulting from certain reinsurance  agreements which
guarantee payment of the appreciation of the S&P 500 index on certain underlying
annuity  products.  These call options  require the  counterparty  to pay LNC at
specified future expiration dates the amount, if any, of the percentage increase
in the S&P 500 index over the strike price defined in the  contract,  applied to
the notional  amount.  The  reinsurance  agreement  then requires LNC to pay any
appreciation on the S&P 500 index to the reinsurance  client. LNC had agreements
with  notional  amounts of $79.9  million and $5.3 million for December 31, 1998
and  1997,  respectively.  The  call  options  expirations  are  matched  to the
liabilities and expire in 1999 through 2006.

Default  Risk.  In assessing  the risk that the rate of default  losses for each
category of asset may be higher than the rates  assumed in pricing its products,
LNC  considers  the entire  $37.9  billion  portfolio  of invested  assets as of
December 31, 1998, taking  diversification  into account.  Of this total,  $22.5
billion  consists of  corporate  bonds and $4.4 billion  consists of  commercial
mortgages.  LNC  manages  the  risk  of  adverse  default  experience  on  these
investments  by  applying   disciplined   credit   evaluation  and  underwriting
standards,  prudently  limiting  allocations to  lower-quality,  higher-yielding
investments, and diversifying exposures by issuer, industry, region and property
type.  For each  counterparty  or  borrowing  entity and its  affiliates,  LNC's
exposures from all transactions are aggregated and managed in relation to formal
limits  set by rating  quality  and  industry  group.  LNC  remains  exposed  to
occasional adverse cyclical economic downturns during which default rates may be
significantly  higher than the long-term  historical average used in pricing. As
of December 31, 1997, LNC had a portfolio of invested assets of $29.8 billion.

LNC is  depending  on the  ability  of  derivative  product  dealers  and  their
guarantors to honor their obligations to pay the contract amounts under interest
rate cap agreements,  swaptions,  spread-lock  agreements,  interest rate swaps,
commodity swaps, call options,  put options foreign currency exchange contracts,
foreign  currency  options and foreign  currency swaps. In order to minimize the
risk of default losses,  LNC diversifies its exposures among several dealers and
limits the amount of exposure to each in  accordance  with the credit  rating of
each  dealer  or  its   guarantor.   LNC  generally   limits  its  selection  of
counterparties that are obligated under these derivative contracts to those with
an A credit rating or above.

Credit-Related  Derivatives.  LNC periodically  uses  spread-lock  agreements to
hedge a portion of the value of its fixed maturity  securities  against the risk
of widening in the spreads  between  their  yields and the yields of  comparable
maturity U.S. or other Government obligations.  As of December 31, 1998, LNC did
not have any open spread-lock  agreements.  LNC uses put options,  combined with
various perpetual  fixed-income  securities and interest rate swaps to replicate
fixed-income,  fixed-maturity  investments.  The risk being  hedged is a drop in
bond prices due to credit concerns with the international bond issuers.  The put
options allow LNC to put the bonds back to the  counterparties  at original par.
As of December  31, 1998,  LNC had put options  with a notional  amount of $21.3
million that expire in 2007.









Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


(1)Net  income  (loss)  from  continuing  operations  for the  second and fourth
   quarters  of 1997  include  special  charges  for  changes  in  estimates  on
   reserves.  The discontinued  operations amount for the fourth quarter of 1997
   includes the gain on sale of the discontinued operations.  See notes 2 and 11
   to the consolidated financial statements on pages 45 and 65, respectively.

Consolidated Financial Statements
The  consolidated  financial  statements  of Lincoln  National  Corporation  and
Subsidiaries follow on pages 36 through 67.






















See notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 42-67.










See notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 42-67.







  See notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 42-67.





















See notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 42-67.







                          LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis  of  Presentation.  The  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements
include   Lincoln   National   Corporation   ("LNC")   and  its   majority-owned
subsidiaries.  Through subsidiary companies, LNC operates multiple insurance and
investment management businesses. During 1998, the collective group of companies
adopted  "Lincoln  Financial  Group" as its marketing  identity.  Operations are
divided  into  four  business  segments  (see  note 9 on  page  62).  Less  than
majority-owned entities in which LNC has at least a 20% interest are reported on
the equity basis. These consolidated  financial statements have been prepared in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Use  of  Estimates.  The  nature  of the  insurance  and  investment  management
businesses requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
amounts  reported in the  consolidated  financial  statements  and  accompanying
notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Investments.  LNC  classifies  its  fixed  maturity  and  equity  securities  as
available-for-sale and, accordingly,  such securities are carried at fair value.
The cost of fixed maturity  securities is adjusted for  amortization of premiums
and discounts.  The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for
declines in value that are other than temporary.

For the  mortgage-backed  securities  portion of the fixed  maturity  securities
portfolio,  LNC  recognizes  income  using a constant  effective  yield based on
anticipated prepayments and the estimated economic life of the securities.  When
estimates of prepayments  change, the effective yield is recalculated to reflect
actual payments to date and anticipated  future payments.  The net investment in
the  securities  is adjusted  to the amount that would have  existed had the new
effective  yield been applied at the time of  acquisition.  This  adjustment  is
reflected in net investment income.

Mortgage loans on real estate are carried at the outstanding  principal balances
less  unaccrued  discounts.  Investment  real  estate  is  carried  at cost less
allowances  for  depreciation.  The cost for both mortgage loans and real estate
and investment real estate is adjusted for declines in value that are other than
temporary. Also, allowances for losses are established, as appropriate, for real
estate  holdings  that are in the  process of being sold.  Real estate  acquired
through foreclosure proceedings is recorded at fair value on the settlement date
which  establishes  a new cost  basis.  If a  subsequent  periodic  review  of a
foreclosed  property  indicates the fair value, less estimated costs to sell, is
lower than the carrying  value at the  settlement  date,  the carrying  value is
adjusted to the lower amount.  Any changes to the reserves for mortgage loans on
real estate and real estate are reported as realized gain (loss) on investments.

Policy loans are carried at aggregate unpaid balances.

Cash and  invested  cash are carried at cost and include all highly  liquid debt
instruments purchased with a maturity of three months or less.

Realized  gain  (loss)  on  investments  is  recognized  in net  income,  net of
associated   amortization  of  deferred  acquisition  costs  and  capital  gains
expenses,  using the specific  identification method. Changes in the fair values
of  securities  carried at fair value are  reflected  directly in  shareholders'
equity,  after deductions for related adjustments for deferred acquisition costs
and amounts  required to satisfy  policyholder  commitments that would have been
recorded had these  securities been sold at their fair value, and after deferred
taxes or credits to the extent deemed recoverable.

Realized gain (loss) on sale of subsidiaries, net of taxes, is recognized in net
income.  Realized gain (loss) on sale of minority  interests in  subsidiaries is
reflected directly in shareholders' equity net of deferred taxes, if any.

Derivatives.  LNC hedges  certain  portions of its  exposure  to  interest  rate
fluctuations,  the widening of bond yield spreads over comparable  maturity U.S.
Government  obligations,  commodity risk,  credit risk,  fluctuations in certain
stock  indices,   increased  liabilities  associated  with  certain  reinsurance
agreements and foreign exchange risk by entering into derivative transactions. A
description  of LNC's  accounting  for its hedging of such risks is discussed in
the following two paragraphs.







The premiums  paid for interest rate caps,  swaptions,  put options and S&P call
options are deferred and amortized to net investment  income on a  straight-line
basis over the term of the respective  derivative.  Any  settlement  received in
accordance  with the terms of the  interest  rate caps is also  recorded  as net
investment  income.  Realized gain (loss) from the  termination  of the interest
rate caps is included  in net income.  Settlements  received  on  swaptions  are
deferred and  amortized  over the life of the hedged  assets as an adjustment to
yield.  Swaptions,  put options,  spread-lock  agreements,  interest rate swaps,
commodity  swaps and  financial  futures  that hedge fixed  maturity  securities
available-for-sale  are  carried  at fair  value.  The  change in fair  value is
reflected  directly  in  shareholders'  equity.  Realized  gain  (loss) from the
settlement of such  derivatives  is deferred and amortized  over the life of the
hedged assets as an adjustment to the yield.  Over-the-counter  call options are
carried  at fair  value.  The  change in fair  value is  reflected  directly  in
shareholders'  equity.  Any gain (loss) realized upon  termination of these call
options is included in net income.  Foreign  exchange forward  contracts,  which
hedge LNC's  investment in its British  subsidiary,  Lincoln  National (UK), are
carried at fair value. The change in fair value and realized gain (loss) on such
contracts is reflected directly in the foreign currency  translation  adjustment
component of shareholders' equity.  Foreign exchange forward contracts,  foreign
currency  options and foreign  currency  swaps,  which hedge some of the foreign
exchange risk of investments in fixed maturity securities denominated in foreign
currencies,  are carried at fair value.  The change in fair value is included in
shareholders'  equity.   Realized  gain  (loss)  from  the  settlement  of  such
derivatives is included in net income.

Hedge  accounting is applied as indicated  above after LNC  determines  that the
items to be hedged  expose LNC to interest  rate  fluctuations,  the widening of
bond  yield  spreads  over  comparable  maturity  U.S.  Government  obligations,
fluctuations  in certain stock indices,  increased  liabilities  associated with
certain  reinsurance   agreements  and  foreign  exchange  risk.  Moreover,  the
derivatives  used are  designated  as a hedge and reduce the  indicated  risk by
having a high  correlation  between  changes in the value of the derivatives and
the items being  hedged at both the  inception of the hedge and  throughout  the
hedge  period.  Should such criteria not be met or if the hedged items have been
sold,  terminated or matured, the change in value of the derivatives is included
in net income.

Loaned  Securities.  Securities loaned are treated as  collateralized  financing
transactions  and a liability is recorded equal to the repurchase  price.  It is
LNC's policy to take possession of securities with a market value at least equal
to the securities  loaned.  Securities loaned are recorded at fair value as long
as the value of the related  collateral is  sufficient.  LNC's  agreements  with
third parties generally contain  contractual  provisions to allow for additional
collateral  to be  obtained  when  necessary.  LNC values  collateral  daily and
obtains additional collateral when deemed appropriate.

Property and Equipment.  Property and equipment owned for company use is carried
at cost less allowances for depreciation.

Premiums  and Fees.  Revenue  for  universal  life and other  interest-sensitive
insurance policies consists of policy charges for the cost of insurance,  policy
initiation and  administration,  and surrender  charges that have been assessed.
Traditional  individual  life-health  and annuity  premiums  are  recognized  as
revenue over the  premium-paying  period of the policies.  Group health premiums
are prorated over the contract term of the policies.

Investment  Advisory  Fees. As specified in the investment  advisory  agreements
with the mutual funds,  fees are determined and recognized as revenues  monthly,
based on the average  daily net assets of the mutual funds  managed.  Investment
advisory  contracts  generally  provide  for the  determination  and  payment of
advisory  fees  based on market  values of  managed  portfolios  at the end of a
calendar  month or quarter.  Investment  management  and advisory  contracts are
renewable annually with cancellation clauses ranging from 30 to 90 days.

Assets Held in Separate Accounts/Liabilities Related to Separate Accounts. These
assets and liabilities  represent  segregated funds administered and invested by
LNC's insurance  subsidiaries for the exclusive  benefit of pension and variable
life and annuity contractholders. Both the assets and liabilities are carried at
fair value. The fees earned by LNC's insurance  subsidiaries for  administrative
and  contractholder  maintenance  services performed for these separate accounts
are included in insurance fee revenue.

Deferred  Acquisition Costs.  Commissions and other costs of acquiring universal
life  insurance,  variable  universal  life  insurance,   unit-linked  products,
traditional life insurance, annuities and group health insurance which vary with
and are primarily related to the production of new business,  have been deferred
to  the  extent  recoverable.  Acquisition  costs  for  universal  and  variable
universal life insurance  policies and unit-linked  products are being amortized
over the lives of the policies in relation to the  incidence of estimated  gross
profits from surrender charges and investment,  mortality,  and expense margins,
and actual realized gain






(loss) on  investments.  That  amortization  is  adjusted  retrospectively  when
estimates  of current or future  gross  profits to be  realized  from a group of
products are revised.  Traditional  life  acquisition  costs are being amortized
over  periods  of 10 to 30 years on either a  straight-line  basis or as a level
percent of premium of the related  policies  depending on the block of business.
Annuity  acquisition  costs  are  amortized  over a period  of 15 years for more
recently  issued  policies,  and over the surrender  charge period for all other
policies. For all policies, amortization is based on assumptions consistent with
those  used in the  development  of the  underlying  policy  form  adjusted  for
emerging experience.

Benefits and  Expenses.  Benefits for  universal  and  variable  universal  life
insurance  policies  include  interest  credited to policy account  balances and
benefit claims incurred during the period in excess of policy account  balances.
Interest  crediting  rates  associated  with  funds  invested  in the  insurance
company's  general  account during 1996 through 1998 ranged from 5.80% to 7.05%.
Interest  and debt  expense  includes  interest on  Minority  Interest-Preferred
Securities of Subsidiary Companies.

Goodwill  and  Other  Intangible   Assets.   The  cost  of  acquired   insurance
subsidiaries  or blocks of  business  in excess of the fair  value of net assets
(goodwill) is amortized using the straight-line  method over periods of 20 to 40
years  which  corresponds  with the  benefits  expected  to be derived  from the
acquisitions.

Other intangible assets for the non-insurance  subsidiaries (i.e., institutional
customer  relationships,  covenants  not to  compete  and mutual  fund  customer
relationships)  have been recorded in connection  with the  acquisition of asset
management  services  companies.  These assets are amortized on a  straight-line
basis over 6 to 15 years.

The  carrying  value  of  goodwill  and  other  intangible  assets  is  reviewed
periodically for indicators of impairment in value.

Insurance and Investment Contract Liabilities. The liabilities for future policy
and claim reserves for universal and variable  universal life insurance policies
consist  of  policy  account   balances  that  accrue  to  the  benefit  of  the
policyholders, excluding surrender charges. The liabilities for future insurance
policy and claim  reserves for  traditional  life  policies  are computed  using
assumptions for investment  yields,  mortality and withdrawals based principally
on generally  accepted  actuarial  methods and assumptions at the time of policy
issue.  Interest assumptions for traditional direct individual life reserves for
all  policies  range from 2.5% to 7.0%  depending  on the time of policy  issue.
Interest rate  assumptions  for  reinsurance  reserves  range from 5.0% to 11.0%
graded to 8.0%  after 20 years.  The  interest  assumptions  for  immediate  and
deferred paid-up annuities range from 4.5% to 7.75%.

With respect to its insurance and investment contract liabilities, LNC 
continually reviews its: 1) overall reserve position; 2) reserving techniques 
and 3) reinsurance arrangements.  As experience develops and new information 
becomes known, liabilities are adjusted as deemed necessary.  The effects of 
changes in estimates are included in the operating results for the period in 
which such changes occur.

Reinsurance.  LNC's insurance  companies enter into reinsurance  agreements with
other  companies  in the  normal  course  of  their  business.  LNC's  insurance
subsidiaries  may assume  reinsurance  from  unaffiliated  companies and/or cede
reinsurance to such companies.  Assets/liabilities  and  premiums/benefits  from
certain  reinsurance  contracts that grant statutory  surplus to other insurance
companies  have  been  netted  on the  balance  sheets  and  income  statements,
respectively, since there is a right of offset. All other reinsurance agreements
are reported on a gross basis.

Depreciation. Provisions for depreciation of investment real estate and property
and  equipment   owned  for  company  use  are  computed   principally   on  the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Postretirement Medical and Life Insurance Benefits.  LNC accounts for its 
postretirement medical and life insurance benefits using the full accrual 
method.

Stock  Options.  LNC  recognizes  compensation  expense  for  its  stock  option
incentive plans using the intrinsic value method of accounting.  Under the terms
of the intrinsic value method,  compensation  cost is the excess, if any, of the
quoted market price of the stock at the grant date, or other  measurement  date,
over the amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock.

Foreign Exchange.  LNC's foreign subsidiaries' balance sheet accounts and income
statement  items are  translated  at the current  exchange and average  exchange
rates for the year, respectively. Resulting translation adjustments are reported
as a component  of  shareholders'  equity.  Other  translation  adjustments  for
foreign currency transactions that affect cash flows are reported in earnings.






2. Changes in Accounting Principles and Change in Estimates

Change in Estimate for Disability  Income Reserve.  During the second quarter of
1997,  LNC conducted an  additional  in-depth  review of loss  experience on its
disability  income  business.  As a result of this study,  the reserve level was
deemed to be inadequate to meet future  obligations if current  incidence levels
were to  continue  in the  future.  In order to address  this  situation,  LNC's
Reinsurance  segment  strengthened its disability income reserve by $92,800,000,
wrote-off  deferred  acquisition costs of $71,100,000 and reduced related assets
by $36,100,000.  Combined these actions reduced net income in the second quarter
of 1997 by $130,000,000 or $1.23 per share ($200,000,000 pre-tax).

Change in Estimate for United  Kingdom  Pension  Mis-selling.  During the fourth
quarter  of 1997,  an  in-depth  review  was  completed  of the  United  Kingdom
regulatory  environment,   settlements  to  date  and  the  remaining  liability
established to settle claims associated with this business.  As a result of this
study,  the  Lincoln UK  segment  strengthened  its  liability  by  $199,400,000
reducing net income in the fourth quarter of 1997 by  $174,900,000  after-tax or
$1.70 per share.

Change in Estimate for Personal Accident Programs.  During the fourth quarter of
1997,  an  in-depth  review was  completed  of certain  excess-of-loss  personal
accident reinsurance  programs written by LNC's Reinsurance segment.  Based on a
concern that these programs were generating  claims  substantially  in excess of
expectations,  an  investigation  and  audit  was  conducted  covering  all such
programs.  While LNC continues to investigate the manner in which these programs
were designed and all legal remedies available,  it has been determined that the
incurred but not reported reserve  liability  related to this business should be
strengthened.  Accordingly,  a charge of $175,000,000 ($113,700,000 after-tax or
$1.11 per share) was taken in the fourth quarter of 1997.

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  In June 1998, the
Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued an accounting  standard  entitled
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("FAS 133"). This
standard  indicates  that  adoption  may occur at the  beginning  of any  fiscal
quarter but no later than the first  quarter of 2000.  LNC has not completed the
analysis necessary to provide a precise estimate of the effect of this statement
or to specify the quarter in which it plans to adopt the standard.

3.  Investments

The major categories of net investment income are as follows:


The realized gain (loss) on investments is as follows:









Provisions  (credits) for  write-downs  and net changes in allowances  for loss,
which are included in the realized gain (loss) on investments  shown above,  are
as follows:


The change in unrealized  appreciation  (depreciation)  on  investments in fixed
maturity and equity securities is as follows:


The amortized cost, gross unrealized gain and loss, and fair value of securities
available-for-sale are as follows:


Future  maturities  of  fixed  maturity  securities  available-for-sale  are  as
follows:








The foregoing data is based on stated maturities.  Actual maturities will differ
in some  cases  because  borrowers  may  have  the  right  to  call  or  pre-pay
obligations.

Par  value,   amortized   cost  and  estimated  fair  value  of  investments  in
asset/mortgage-backed  securities summarized by interest rates of the underlying
collateral are as follows:


The  quality  ratings of fixed  maturity  securities  available-for-sale  are as
follows:


December 31                                                                 1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         
Treasuries and AAA.............................................            25.6%
AA.............................................................              7.0
A..............................................................             27.5
BBB............................................................             32.9
BB.............................................................              4.3
Less than BB...................................................              2.7
                                                                           -----
                                                                          100.0%

During  the  second  quarter  of 1998,  LNC  purchased  two  bonds  issued  with
offsetting  interest rate  characteristics.  Subsequent to the purchase of these
bonds,  interest rates increased and the value of one of these bonds  decreased.
This bond was sold at the end of the second  quarter 1998 and a realized loss of
$20.0 million  ($13.0 million  after-tax) was recorded.  The other bond is still
owned by LNC and is producing net investment  income on an annual basis of $10.0
million  ($6.5  million  after-tax).  Subsequent  to  these  transactions  being
recorded,  the Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial  Accounting Standards
Board reached  consensus  with regard to accounting  for this type of investment
strategy.  LNC is not required to apply the new accounting  rules,  however,  if
such rules were applied,  the realized loss on the sale of $20.0 million  ($13.0
million  after-tax)  on one of these  bonds  recorded  at the end of the  second
quarter of 1998 would be reversed and the amount would be applied as a change in
the  carrying  amount of the bond that  remains in LNC's  portfolio.  Also,  net
investment  income  for the year  ended  December  31,  1998  would be less than
reported by $5.0 million ($3.3 million after-tax).

The balance sheet  captions,  "Real Estate" and  "Property and  Equipment,"  are
shown net of allowances for depreciation as follows:


December 31                         (in millions)          1998            1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Real estate.........................................     $ 51.0           $ 50.2
Property and equipment..............................      222.1            155.9

Mortgage loans on real estate which are primarily held in the Life Insurance and
Annuities segment are considered impaired when, based on current information and
events,  it is  probable  that LNC will be unable to  collect  all  amounts  due
according to the contractual  terms of the loan  agreement.  When LNC determines
that a loan is  impaired,  the  cost is  adjusted  or a  provision  for  loss is
established  equal to the  difference  between the initial  cost of the mortgage
loan and the estimated value.  Estimated value is based on: 1) the present value
of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective  interest rate;
2) the loan's  observable  market price or; 3) the fair value of the collateral.
The  provision  for losses is reported as realized  gain (loss) on  investments.
Mortgage loans deemed to be uncollectible  are charged against the allowance for
losses and  subsequent  recoveries,  if any, are credited to the  allowance  for
losses.

The  allowance  for  losses  is  maintained  at a  level  believed  adequate  by
management to absorb  estimated  probable credit losses.  Management's  periodic
evaluation  of the adequacy of the  allowance  for losses is based on LNC's past
loan  loss  experience,  known  and  inherent  risks in the  portfolio,  adverse
situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay (including the timing
of  future  payments),   the  estimated  value  of  the  underlying  collateral,
composition  of the  loan  portfolio,  current  economic  conditions  and  other
relevant  factors.  This  evaluation  is  inherently  subjective  as it requires
estimating  the amounts and timing of future cash flows  expected to be received
on impaired loans that may be susceptible to significant change.








Impaired  mortgage  loans  along with the  related  allowance  for losses are as
follows:
  
December 31                     (in millions)               1998            1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Impaired loans with allowance for losses.........          $37.0          $41.2
Allowance for losses.............................           (4.8)          (5.0)
Impaired loans with no allowance for losses......            2.2             --
                                                           ------        ------
Net impaired loans...............................          $34.4          $36.2

Impaired mortgage loans with no allowance for losses are a result of: 1) direct 
write-downs or; 2) collateral dependent loans where the fair value of the 
collateral is greater than the recorded investment in the loan.

A  reconciliation  of the mortgage loan  allowance for losses for these impaired
mortgage loans is as follows:

Year Ended December 31  (in millions)       1998            1997           1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Balance at beginning-of-year............    $5.0           $12.4          $29.6
Provisions for losses...................      .7              .8            3.1
Releases due to write-downs.............     --               --             --
Releases due to sales...................     (.9)           (4.8)         (19.9)
Releases due to foreclosures............      --            (3.4)           (.4)
                                            ----            -----         -----
    Balance at end-of-year..............    $4.8           $ 5.0          $12.4

The average  recorded  investment  in impaired  mortgage  loans and the interest
income recognized on impaired mortgage loans were as follows:

Year Ended December 31    (in millions)         1998          1997          1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Average recorded investment in impaired loans..$33.4        $74.9         $139.6
Interest income recognized on impaired loans...  3.5          7.0           12.7

All interest income on impaired  mortgage loans was recognized on the cash basis
of income recognition.

As of  December  31,  1998 and  1997,  LNC had  restructured  mortgage  loans of
$32,000,000  and  $38,500,000,   respectively.   LNC  recorded   $3,100,000  and
$3,800,000 of interest income on these  restructured  mortgage loans in 1998 and
1997,  respectively.  Interest income in the amount of $3,200,000 and $3,900,000
would have been recorded on these  mortgage  loans  according to their  original
terms in 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  As of December 31, 1998 and December 31,
1997, LNC had no outstanding  commitments to lend funds on restructured mortgage
loans.

An  investment  in  real  estate  is  considered  impaired  when  the  projected
undiscounted cash flow from the investment is less than the carrying value. When
LNC determines that an investment in real estate is impaired, it is written-down
to reduce the carrying value to the estimated value.

As of  December  31,  1998,  LNC's  investment  commitments  for fixed  maturity
securities  (primarily  private  placements),  mortgage loans on real estate and
real estate were $487,800,000.

For  the   year   ended   December   31,   1998,   fixed   maturity   securities
available-for-sale,  mortgage  loans on real estate and real estate  investments
which were non-income producing were not significant.

The cost  information  for mortgage loans on real estate,  real estate and other
long-term  investments  are net of  allowances  for losses.  The  balance  sheet
account for other  liabilities  includes a reserve for guarantees of third-party
debt. The amount of allowances and reserves for such items is as follows:

December 31                          (in millions)         1998             1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mortgage loans on real estate.......................        $4.8           $ 5.0
Real estate.........................................          --             1.5
Guarantees..........................................          .3              .8








4.  Federal Income Taxes

The Federal income tax expense (benefit) is as follows:


The effective tax rate on pre-tax income is lower than the prevailing  corporate
Federal income tax rate. A reconciliation of this difference is as follows:


The Federal income tax recoverable (liability) is as follows:


Significant   components  of  LNC's  net  deferred  tax  asset  (liability)  for
continuing operations are as follows:


LNC's Lincoln UK segment has incurred losses in its pension business which under
United Kingdom tax law can only be utilized  against its future pension business
earnings.  At December 31, 1998 and 1997 the deferred tax asset related to these
pension  business  losses was  $86,700,000 and  $92,000,000,  respectively.  The
valuation  allowances shown in the table above reflect  managements  assessment,
based upon all  available  information,  that it is more  likely than not that a
portion of this  deferred  tax asset  will not be  realized.  Adjustment  to the
valuation allowance will be made if there is a change in management's assessment
of the amount of the deferred tax asset that is realizable.

Cash paid for  Federal  income  taxes in 1998,  1997 and 1996 was  $379,600,000,
$158,000,000 and $143,800,000 respectively.

At December 31, 1998, LNC had net operating loss  carryforwards  of $257,000,000
for  Federal  income  tax  purposes  related  to its  foreign  life  reinsurance
companies that expire in years 2006 through 2018. Delaware Management  Holdings,
Inc.  ("Delaware"),  acquired in 1995, has net operating loss  carryforwards for
Federal






income tax purposes of  $79,100,000  at December  31, 1998,  which expire in the
years 2003 through 2008.  These  carryforwards  will only be available to reduce
the  respective  taxable  income of the foreign life  reinsurance  companies and
Delaware.

Under prior Federal  income tax law,  one-half of the excess of a life insurance
company's  income from  operations  over its taxable  investment  income was not
taxed, but was set aside in a special tax account  designated as "Policyholders'
Surplus." LNC has approximately $196,000,000 of untaxed "Policyholders' Surplus"
on which no payment  of  Federal  income  taxes  will be  required  unless it is
distributed  as a dividend,  or under other  specified  conditions.  Barring the
passage  of  unfavorable  tax  legislation,   LNC  does  not  believe  that  any
significant  portion of the account will be taxed in the foreseeable  future and
no related deferred tax liability has been recognized.  If the entire balance of
account  became  taxable  under  the  current  Federal  rate,  the tax  would be
approximately $68,600,000.

LNC has declared its intention to reinvest the undistributed earnings of Lincoln
UK and will not provide  U.S.  income tax on these  undistributed  earnings.  At
December 31, 1998, for the years covered by this declaration there was a deficit
in earnings for Lincoln UK.

5.  Supplemental Financial Data

Reinsurance  transactions included in the income statement captions,  "Insurance
Premiums" and "Insurance Fees," are as follows:


The income statement  caption,  "Benefits," is net of reinsurance  recoveries of
$1,056,800,000;  $393,000,000  and $250,100,000 for the years ended December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

The income statement caption,  "Underwriting,  Acquisition,  Insurance and Other
Expenses," includes  amortization of deferred acquisition costs of $440,000,000;
$468,000,000  and  $428,500,000  for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively. An additional $(34,500,000); $(78,200,000) and $(65,200,000)
of  deferred  acquisition  costs was  restored  (amortized)  and netted  against
"Realized  Gain (Loss) on  Investments"  for the years ended  December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.

A reconciliation  of the present value of business  in-force for LNC's insurance
subsidiaries included in other intangible assets is as follows:


Future estimated  amortization of the present value of business  in-force net of
interest on unamortized  balance for LNC's insurance  subsidiaries is as follows
(in millions):

1999 - $112.2                 2001 - $115.1                     2003 - $   109.7
2000 -  113.0                 2002 -  112.4                Thereafter -  1,190.9

Details  underlying  the balance sheet caption,  "Contractholder  Funds," are as
follows:

December 31                     (in millions)              1998           1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Premium deposit funds.................................. $20,171.9      $19,803.0
Undistributed earnings on participating business.......     142.8           79.8
Other..................................................     438.4          180.6
                                                        ---------      ---------
   Total............................................... $20,753.1      $20,063.4






Details  underlying  the  balance  sheet  captions  related to total debt are as
follows:


The combined U.S. and U.K. commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 1998 and
1997, had a blended weighted average interest rate of approximately 6.67% and 
7.03%, respectively.

Future maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in millions):

1999 - $100.2                 2001 - $   .4                       2003 - $    --
2000 -     .1                 2002 -  100.0                  Thereafter -  613.3

LNC also has access to capital from minority interest in preferred securities of
subsidiary  companies.  In May  1996,  LNC filed a shelf  registration  with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission that would allow LNC to offer and sell up to
$500,000,000  of various forms of hybrid  securities.  These  securities,  which
combine debt and equity  characteristics,  are offered through a series of three
subsidiaries  (Lincoln National Capital I, II and III). These  subsidiaries were
formed solely for the purpose of issuing  preferred  securities  and lending the
proceeds to LNC. The common  securities of these  subsidiaries are owned by LNC.
The  only  assets  of  Lincoln  National  Capital  I, II and  III are the  notes
receivable from LNC for such loans. Distributions are paid by these subsidiaries
to the preferred securityholders on a quarterly basis. The principal obligations
of these  subsidiaries  are irrevocably  guaranteed by LNC. Upon  liquidation of
these subsidiaries, the holders of the preferred securities would be entitled to
a fixed amount per share plus accumulated and unpaid distributions. LNC reserves
the  right  to:  1)  redeem  the  preferred  securities  at a fixed  price  plus
accumulated and unpaid  distributions  and; 2) extend the stated redemption date
up to 19 years if certain conditions are met.

In April 1998, LNC filed a shelf  registration  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission,  that  would  allow  LNC to offer and sell up to  $1,300,000,000  of
various  securities,  including regular debt,  preferred stock,  common stock or
hybrid  securities.  This filing  included an aggregate of  $300,000,000  from a
previous  filing  that had not been  utilized.  In  conjunction  with this shelf
registration, three additional subsidiaries were added (Lincoln National Capital
IV, V and VI) to accommodate  the issuance of additional  preferred  securities.
The purpose and terms of these new  subsidiaries  essentially  parallel  Lincoln
National Capital I, II and III.

In  July  1996,   Lincoln   National   Capital  I  issued  8,600,000  shares  or
$215,000,000,  8.75% Quarterly Income Preferred Securities ("QUIPS").  In August
1996, Lincoln National Capital II issued 4,000,000 shares or $100,000,000, 8.35%
Trust Originated Preferred Securities  ("TOPrS").  Both issues mature in 2026 at
$25 per share and are  redeemable  in whole or in part at LNC's  option any time
after 2001. In March 1998,  LNC issued notes of 1)  $100,000,000,  6.5% due 2008
and 2)  $200,000,000,  7% due 2018. In July 1998,  Lincoln  National Capital III
issued  8,000,000  shares or  $200,000,000 of 7.4% TOPrS which mature in 2028 at
$25 per share and are  redeemable  in whole or in part at LNC's  option  anytime
after July 2003. In August 1998,  Lincoln  National  Capital IV issued 9,200,000
shares or $230,000,000 of 7.75% FELINE PRIDES (service






mark of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc.).  The purchasers of such  securities were also
provided stock purchase  contract  agreements  that indicate they will receive a
specified  amount of LNC common stock on or before the August 2001 maturity date
of the FELINE  PRIDES.  A portion of the  issuance  costs  associated  with this
offering along with the present value of the payments  associated with the stock
purchase  agreements were charged to the common stock line within  shareholders'
equity.  In December  1998, LNC filed a shelf  registration  with the Securities
Exchange Commission that combines unused portions of the April 1998 registration
($640,000,000)  and the May 1996  registration  ($185,000,000)  resulting  in an
active shelf registration allowing LNC to sell up to an additional  $825,000,000
of securities.

The  funds  raised in 1998  from the  various  public  offerings  of  securities
described  above  were used to  acquire  a block of  individual  life  insurance
business from Aetna (see note 11 on page 66).

Finally, LNC maintains a revolving credit agreement with a group of domestic and
foreign banks in the aggregate  amount of  $750,000,000.  This agreement,  which
expires in October 2001,  provides for interest on  borrowings  based on various
money market  indices.  Under the terms of this  agreement,  LNC must maintain a
prescribed  level of adjusted  consolidated net worth. At December 31, 1998, LNC
had no outstanding borrowings under this agreement.  During 1998, 1997 and 1996,
fees paid for  maintaining  revolving  credit  agreements  amounted to $662,000;
$670,000 and $715,000, respectively.

Cash paid for interest for 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $108,300,000; $96,000,000 and
$83,200,000, respectively.

6.  Employee Benefit Plans

Incentive Plans. LNC has various  incentive plans for key employees,  agents and
directors  of LNC and its  subsidiaries  that  provide for the issuance of stock
options, stock appreciation rights,  restricted stock awards and stock incentive
awards.  These plans are comprised  primarily of stock option  incentive  plans.
Stock options  granted under the stock option  incentive plans are at the market
value at the date of grant and, subject to termination of employment,  expire 10
years from the date of grant.  Such options are transferable only upon death and
are  exercisable  one year from date of grant for options  issued prior to 1992.
Options  issued  subsequent  to 1991 are  exercisable  in 25%  increments on the
option  issuance  anniversary in the four years  following  issuance.  A "reload
option" feature was added on May 14, 1997. In most cases,  persons exercising an
option  after that date have been  granted new options in an amount equal to the
number of matured  shares  tendered.  The reload  options  are  granted  for the
remaining  term of the related  original  option and can be exercised  two years
after the grant date if the value of the new option has appreciated by 25%.

Information with respect to incentive plan stock options outstanding at December
31, 1998 is as follows:


LNC recognizes  compensation  expense for its stock option incentive plans using
the  intrinsic  value  based  method of  accounting  (see note 1 on page 44) and
provides the required pro forma  information  for stock  options  granted  after
December 31, 1994. Accordingly,  no compensation expense has been recognized for
stock option incentive  plans.  Had compensation  expense for LNC's stock option
incentive  plans for options  granted  after  December 31, 1994 been  determined
based on the  estimated  fair value at the grant  dates for awards  under  those
plans,  LNC's pro forma net  income  and  earnings  per share for the last three
years  (1998,  1997 and 1996)  would have been  $500,984,000  ($4.93 per diluted
share);  $930,538,000  ($8.95 per  diluted  share) and  $511,253,000  ($4.85 per
diluted  share),  respectively  (a  decrease of  $8,791,000  or $.09 per diluted
share;  $3,450,000 or $.03 per diluted share and  $2,305,000 or $.02 per diluted
share,  respectively).  These  effects on pro forma net income and  earnings per
share of expensing the estimated fair value of stock options are not necessarily
representative  of the  effects on reported  net income for future  years due to
factors such as the vesting  period of the stock  options and the  potential for
issuance of additional stock options in future years.






The fair value of options  granted after December 31, 1994,  used as a basis for
the pro forma  disclosures,  shown above,  was estimated as of the date of grant
using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.

The option price assumptions used were as follows:


Restricted  stock  (non-vested  stock)  awarded  from 1996  through  1998 was as
follows:


Information  with respect to the incentive  plans  involving stock options is as
follows:



Other Benefit Plans.  LNC maintains defined benefit pension plans for its U.S. 
and U.K. employees and a defined contribution plan for its U.S. agents.  LNC 
also maintains 401(k) Plans, deferred compensation plans and postretirement 
medical and life insurance plans for its U.S. employees and agents.  The 
aggregate expenses and accumulated obligations for these plans are not material 
to LNC's consolidated statements of income or financial position for any of the
periods shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

7. Restrictions, Commitments and Contingencies

Statutory Information and Restrictions
Net  income  (loss)  as  determined  in  accordance  with  statutory  accounting
practices for LNC's insurance  subsidiaries was  $(1,452,400,000);  $345,200,000
and  $384,600,000  for  1998,  1997 and  1996,  respectively.  The 1998  amounts
includes the statutory ceding commissions associated with the acquisition of two
blocks






of business as described below. Excluding the impact of these acquisitions,  net
income for 1998 would have been  $545,900,000.  Statutory  net income (loss) for
1998, 1997 and 1996,  excluding LNC's foreign life  reinsurance  companies,  was
$(1,397,600,000); $299,100,000 and $342,700,000, respectively.

Shareholders'  equity as  determined  in accordance  with  statutory  accounting
practices for LNC's insurance subsidiaries was $2,952,500,000 and $2,660,900,000
for December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

The National Association of Insurance  Commissioners is involved in a multi-year
project  to examine  and  challenge  the  appropriateness  of current  statutory
accounting  practices.  This  project  could  result  in  changes  to  statutory
accounting  practices  that could cause  changes to the statutory net income and
shareholders' equity data shown above.

LNC's  insurance  subsidiaries  are  subject  to  certain  insurance  department
regulatory restrictions as to the transfer of funds and payments of dividends to
LNC.  Based  upon  these  regulations,  and  without  giving  effect to the 1998
acquisitions,  (see note 11 on page 66), LNC's insurance subsidiaries would have
been able to pay dividends to LNC in 1999 of approximately  $603,400,000 without
obtaining  specific  approval  from the insurance  commissioners.  LNC's primary
insurance  subsidiary,  Lincoln National Life Insurance Company ("Lincoln Life")
acquired a block of individual life insurance and annuity business from CIGNA in
January  1998 and a block of  individual  life  insurance  from Aetna in October
1998. These acquisitions were structured as indemnity reinsurance  transactions.
The statutory  accounting  regulations do not allow goodwill to be recognized on
indemnity reinsurance  transactions and therefore,  the related statutory ceding
commission flows through the statement of operations as an expense  resulting in
a reduction of earned surplus. As a result of these acquisitions, Lincoln Life's
statutory  earned  surplus is negative and it is  necessary  for Lincoln Life to
obtain the prior approval of the Indiana  Insurance  Commissioner  before paying
any dividends to LNC until such time as statutory earned surplus is positive. It
is expected that  statutory  earned  surplus will return to a positive  position
within two-three years from the closing of the Aetna transaction described above
assuming a level of statutory earnings coinciding with recent earnings patterns.
If statutory earnings are less than recent patterns due, for example, to adverse
operating  conditions  or further  indemnity  reinsurance  transactions  of this
nature or if  dividends  are  approved  or paid at amounts  higher  than  recent
history,  the statutory earned surplus may not return to a positive  position as
soon as expected.  Although no assurance can be given,  management believes that
the approvals for the payment of dividends in amounts consistent with those paid
in the past can be  obtained.  In the event  such  approvals  are not  obtained,
management  believes  that LNC can obtain  the funds  required  to  satisfy  its
obligations from its existing credit facilities and other sources.

Disability Income Claims
The liability for disability  income claims net of the related asset for amounts
recoverable  from reinsurers at December 31, 1998 and 1997 is a net liability of
$1,813,400,000 and $1,654,000,000,  respectively, excluding deferred acquisition
costs.  This liability is based on the assumption  that recent  experience  will
continue in the future.  If  incidence  levels  and/or claim  termination  rates
fluctuate   significantly   from  the   assumptions   underlying  the  reserves,
adjustments  to reserves  could be required  in the  future.  Accordingly,  this
liability may prove to be deficient or excessive.  However,  it is  management's
opinion that such future development will not materially affect the consolidated
financial position of LNC. LNC reviews reserve levels on an on-going basis.

United Kingdom Pension Products
Operations  in the U.K.  include the sale of pension  products  to  individuals.
Regulatory  agencies have raised  questions as to what  constitutes  appropriate
advice  to  individuals  who  bought  pension  products  as  an  alternative  to
participation in an employer  sponsored plan. In cases of inappropriate  advice,
an extensive  investigation  has to be done and the individual put in a position
similar to what would have been attained if the  individual  had remained in the
employer  sponsored  plan.  At  December  31,  1998  and  1997,  liabilities  of
$202,100,000,  and  $291,000,000,  respectively,  had been  established for this
issue. The decrease in the level of the reserve reflects the settlement  payouts
that  occurred  during  1998.  These  liabilities,  which  are  net of  expected
recoveries, have been established for the estimated cost of this issue following
regulatory  guidance as to activities to be undertaken.  The expected recoveries
from previous owners of companies  acquired over the last few years as specified
in the  indemnification  clauses of the purchase agreements at December 31, 1998
and 1997 were $84,900,000 and $113,000,000, respectively . These liabilities and
recoveries  are based on various  estimates  that are  subject  to  considerable
uncertainty.  Also, there is further uncertainty from the regulator  perspective
as  additional  guidelines  were issued in December  of 1998 that  extended  the
review to a wider range client  population.  These  guidelines  specify  actions
expected  from the  companies  that issued  such  products.  Accordingly,  these
liabilities may prove to be deficient or excessive.  However, it is management's
opinion that such future development will not materially affect the consolidated
financial position of LNC.







Personal Accident Programs
LNC's Reinsurance  segment accepts personal accident  reinsurance  programs from
other  insurance  companies.  Most  of  these  programs  are  presented  to  the
Reinsurance  segment by independent  brokers who represent the ceding companies.
Certain excess of loss personal  accident  reinsurance  programs  created in the
London  market  during  1993-1996  have  produced and have  potential to produce
significant  losses. At December 31, 1998 and 1997,  liabilities of $177,400,000
and  $186,300,000,  respectively  had been  established for such programs.  This
reserve  is  based  on  various  estimates  that  are  subject  to  considerable
uncertainty.  Accordingly,  this reserve may prove to be deficient or excessive.
However,  it is  management's  opinion  that such  future  development  will not
materially affect the consolidated financial position of LNC.

LNC  continues to  investigate  its personal  accident  reinsurance  programs to
determine  if  there  are  additional   programs   including   certain   workers
compensation  programs  which may produce  losses.  At this time LNC 1) does not
have sufficient information to determine  whether  or  not it is  probable  that
additional  losses have been  incurred  and 2) can not  accurately  estimate the
ultimate cost or timing of the outcome on these programs.

Marketing and Compliance Issues
Regulators  continue to focus on market  conduct and  compliance  issues.  Under
certain  circumstances  companies  operating  in  the  insurance  and  financial
services  markets  have  been  held  responsible  for  providing  incomplete  or
misleading  sales  materials and for replacing  existing  policies with policies
that were less advantageous to the policyholder.  LNC's management  continues to
monitor the company's sales materials and compliance procedures and is making an
extensive  effort to minimize any potential  liability.  Due to the  uncertainty
surrounding such matters, it is not possible to provide a meaningful estimate of
the range of  potential  outcomes  at this  time;  however,  it is  management's
opinion that such future development will not materially affect the consolidated
financial position of LNC.

Group Pension Annuities
The liabilities for guaranteed  interest and group pension annuity contracts are
supported by a single portfolio of assets that attempts to match the duration of
these  liabilities.  Due to the long-term nature of group pension  annuities and
the resulting  inability to exactly match cash flows,  a risk exists that future
cash flows from investments will not be reinvested at rates as high as currently
earned  by  the  portfolio.  Accordingly,  these  liabilities  may  prove  to be
deficient or excessive.  However,  it is  management's  opinion that such future
development will not materially  affect the consolidated  financial  position of
LNC.

Euro Conversion
LNC owns  operating  companies in Europe and conducts  business  with  companies
located within Europe.  LNC has modified its systems,  financial  activities and
currency  risk  exposures to align with the first phase of the European  union's
conversion to a new common currency (the euro) that was adopted January 1, 1999.
It is management's opinion the additional phases of this conversion,  which will
be  implemented  during  the next few  years,  will not  materially  affect  the
consolidated financial condition of LNC.

Leases
Certain  of LNC's  subsidiaries  lease  their  home  office  properties  through
sale-leaseback  agreements.  The  agreements  provide for a 25 year lease period
with  options  to  renew  for six  additional  terms  of five  years  each.  The
agreements  also  provide LNC with the right of first  refusal to  purchase  the
properties during the term of the lease,  including renewal periods,  at a price
defined  in the  agreements.  LNC also has the  option to  purchase  the  leased
properties at fair market value as defined in the  agreements on the last day of
the initial  25-year  lease period  ending in 2009 or the last day of any of the
renewal periods.

Total rental expense on operating leases in 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $81,300,000,
$62,500,000 and $54,500,000, respectively. Future minimum rental commitments are
as follows (in millions):

1999 - $55.0                   2001 - $48.2                        2003 - $ 36.1
2000 -  51.6                   2002 -  41.9                  Thereafter -  217.1

Information Technology Commitment
In February  1998,  Lincoln  Life signed a seven-year  contract  with IBM Global
Services for  information  technology  services  for the Fort Wayne  operations.
Annual costs are  dependent on usage but are expected to range from  $33,600,000
to $56,800,000.

Insurance Ceded and Assumed
LNC's  insurance  companies  cede insurance to other  companies.  The portion of
risks exceeding each company's retention limit is reinsured with other insurers.
LNC seeks reinsurance coverage within the






business  segments  that sell life  insurance  to limit its  liabilities.  As of
December 31, 1998, LNC's maximum  retention was $10,000,000 on a single insured.
Portions of LNC's deferred annuity business have also been co-insured with other
companies to limit LNC's exposure to interest rate risks.  At December 31, 1998,
the   reserves   associated   with  these   reinsurance   arrangements   totaled
$1,608,500,000.  To cover products other than life insurance, LNC acquires other
insurance  coverages  with  retentions and limits that  management  believes are
appropriate for the circumstances. The accompanying financial statements reflect
premiums,  benefits and deferred  acquisition costs, net of insurance ceded (see
note 5 on page 49). LNC's insurance  companies remain liable if their reinsurers
are  unable  to  meet  contractual   obligations  under  applicable  reinsurance
agreements.

Certain LNC  insurance  companies  assume  insurance  from other  companies.  At
December 31, 1998,  LNC's  insurance  companies  have provided  $228,800,000  of
statutory  surplus  relief  to  other  insurance   companies  under  reinsurance
transactions.  Generally,  such amounts are offset by corresponding  receivables
from the ceding  company,  which are secured by future  profits on the reinsured
business.  However,  LNC's insurance  companies are subject to the risk that the
ceding  company  may  become  insolvent  and the  right of  offset  would not be
permitted.

Associated  with these  transactions,  LNC's insurance companies have obtained 
letters of credit in favor of various insurance companies. This  allows the  
ceding  companies  to take statutory reserve credit.  The letters of credit 
issued by the banks represent a guarantee of performance under the reinsurance 
agreements. At December 31, 1998, there was a total of  $656,200,000  in  
outstanding  bank letters of credit.  In exchange for the letters of credit, LNC
paid the banks approximately  $1,637,000 in fees in 1998.

Vulnerability from Concentrations
At December 31,  1998,  LNC did not have a material  concentration  of financial
instruments  in a single  investee,  industry or  geographic  location.  Also at
December 31, 1998, LNC did not have a concentration of: 1) business transactions
with a particular customer, lender or distributor; 2) revenues from a particular
product  or  service;  3)  sources  of supply of labor or  services  used in the
business or; 4) a market or geographic  area in which business is conducted that
makes it vulnerable to an event that is at least reasonably possible to occur in
the  near  term  and  which  could  cause a severe  impact  to  LNC's  financial
condition.

Other Contingency Matters
LNC and its  subsidiaries  are involved in various  pending or threatened  legal
proceedings arising from the conduct of business.  Most of these proceedings are
routine in the ordinary course of business. LNC maintains professional liability
insurance  coverage  for  claims  in  excess  of  $5  million.   The  degree  of
applicability  of this  coverage  will  depend  on the  specific  facts  of each
proceeding. In some instances, these proceedings include claims for compensatory
and  punitive  damages  and  similar  types of relief in addition to amounts for
alleged   contractual   liability  or  requests  for  equitable  relief.   After
consultation  with  legal  counsel  and  a  review  of  available  facts,  it is
management's opinion that the ultimate liability, if any, under these suits will
not have a material  adverse effect on the consolidated  financial  condition of
LNC.

Four  lawsuits  involving  alleged  fraud  in the  sale  of  interest  sensitive
universal life and whole life insurance have been filed as class actions against
Lincoln  Life,  although  the  court has not  certified  a class in any of these
cases.  Plaintiffs seek unspecified  damages and penalties for themselves and on
behalf  of the  putative  class.  While  the  relief  sought  in these  cases is
substantial,  it is premature to make  assessments  about the potential loss, if
any,  because the status of the cases ranges from the early stages of litigation
to the dismissal  and appeals  stage.  Management  intends to defend these suits
vigorously.  The  amount of  liability,  if any,  which may arise as a result of
these suits cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.

UK  regulatory  authorities  have  completed  a review  of  Lincoln  UK  selling
practices.  This review does not include  matters related to the pension product
mis-selling investigations.  Management is currently working with the regulators
to address compliance issues that have been raised in the course of this review.
The extent of corrective  measures and potential  disciplinary  actions, if any,
that  may  result  from  this  review  are  actively  being  discussed  with the
regulatory  authorities.  It is not possible to provide a meaningful estimate of
the  potential  outcome  of this  matter at the  present  time.  However,  it is
management's  opinion that the  resolution of these matters will not  materially
affect the consolidated financial position of LNC.

The number of insurance  companies  that are under  regulatory  supervision  has
resulted,  and is  expected  to  continue  to result,  in  assessments  by state
guaranty funds to cover losses to policyholders of insolvent or






rehabilitated  companies.  Mandatory  assessments  may  be  partially  recovered
through a reduction in future premium taxes in some states.  LNC has accrued for
expected assessments net of estimated future premium tax deductions.

Guarantees
LNC has  guarantees  with  off-balance-sheet  risks  whose  contractual  amounts
represent credit exposure.  Outstanding guarantees with off-balance-sheet risks,
shown in  notional  or  contract  amounts  along with their  carrying  value and
estimated fair values, are as follows:


Certain  subsidiaries of LNC have invested in real estate partnerships which use
industrial  revenue  bonds to finance their  projects.  LNC has  guaranteed  the
repayment of principal and interest on these bonds.  Certain subsidiaries of LNC
are also  involved  in other  real  estate  partnerships  that use  conventional
mortgage  loans.  In  some  cases,  the  terms  of  these  arrangements  involve
guarantees  by each of the  partners to indemnify  the  mortgagor in the event a
partner is unable to pay its  principal  and  interest  payments.  In  addition,
certain  subsidiaries of LNC have sold commercial mortgage loans through grantor
trusts which issued pass-through certificates. These subsidiaries have agreed to
repurchase  any  mortgage  loans  which  remain  delinquent  for  90  days  at a
repurchase price substantially  equal to the outstanding  principal balance plus
accrued interest thereon to the date of repurchase.  It is management's  opinion
that the value of the properties underlying these commitments is sufficient that
in the event of default the impact would not be material to LNC.

Derivatives
LNC has  derivatives  with  off-balance-sheet  risks whose  notional or contract
amounts exceed the credit exposure. LNC has entered into derivative transactions
to reduce its exposure to fluctuations  in interest rates,  the widening of bond
yield spreads over comparable  maturity U.S. Government  obligations,  Commodity
risk, credit risk,  increased  liabilities  associated with certain  reinsurance
agreements, foreign exchange risks and fluctuations in the FTSE and S&P indexes.
In addition, LNC is subject to the risks associated with changes in the value of
its derivatives;  however, such changes in value generally are offset by changes
in  the  value  of  the  items  being  hedged  by  such  contracts.  Outstanding
derivatives with off- balance-sheet risks, shown in notional or contract amounts
along with their carrying value and estimated fair values, are as follows:







A  reconciliation  of the  notional  or  contract  amounts  for the  significant
programs using derivative agreements and contracts is as follows:





Interest Rate Cap Agreements. the interest rate cap agreements,  which expire in
1999  through  2006,   entitle  LNC  to  receive  quarterly  payments  from  the
counterparties  on specified  future reset dates,  contingent on future interest
rates.  For  each  cap,  the  amount  of such  quarterly  payments,  if any,  is
determined  by the excess of a market  interest  rate over a specified  cap rate
multiplied by the notional amount divided by four. The purpose of LNC's interest
rate cap  agreement  program is to protect its annuity line of business from the
effect of rising interest rates.  The premium paid for the interest rate caps is
included in other investments  ($9,300,000 as of December 31, 1998) and is being
amortized over the terms of the agreements. This amortization is included in net
investment income.

Swaptions.  Swaptions, which expire in 1999 through 2003, entitle LNC to receive
settlement  payments  from the  counterparties  on specified  expiration  dates,
contingent  on future  interest  rates.  For each  swaption,  the amount of such
settlement  payments,  if  any,  is  determined  by  the  present  value  of the
difference  between  the fixed rate on a market  rate swap and the  strike  rate
multiplied by the notional  amount.  The purpose of LNC's swaption program is to
protect its annuity line of business from the effect of rising  interest  rates.
The premium paid for the swaptions is included in other  investments  (amortized
cost of  $16,200,000  as of December 31, 1998) and is being  amortized  over the
terms of the agreements. This amortization is included in net investment income.

Spread-Lock Agreements. Spread-lock agreements provide for a lump sum payment to
or by LNC, depending on whether the spread between the swap rate and a specified
Government note is larger or smaller than a contractually specified spread. Cash
payments are based on the product of the notional amount, the spread between the
swap rate and the yield of an equivalent maturity Government  security,  and the
price  sensitivity  of the swap at that time.  The purpose of LNC's  spread-lock
program  is to  protect  a  portion  of its fixed  maturity  securities  against
widening spreads.






Financial  Futures  Contracts.   LNC  uses  exchange-traded   financial  futures
contracts  to hedge  against  interest  rate risks and to manage  duration  of a
portion of its fixed maturity  securities.  Financial futures contracts obligate
LNC to buy or sell a  financial  instrument  at a  specified  future  date for a
specified  price.  They  may be  settled  in cash  or  through  delivery  of the
financial  instrument.  Cash  settlements  on the  change  in  market  values of
financial futures contracts are made daily.

Interest Rate Swap  Agreements.  LNC uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge
its exposure to floating  rate bond coupon  payments,  replicating  a fixed rate
bond. An interest rate swap is a contractual  agreement to exchange  payments at
one or more times based on the actual or expected price,  level,  performance or
value of one or more  underlying  interests  rates.  LNC is  required to pay the
counterparty to the agreements the stream of variable coupon payments  generated
from the bonds, and in turn, receives a fixed payment from the counterpart, at a
predetermined  interest rate. The net receipts/payments from interest rate swaps
are  recorded  in net  investment  income.  LNC also  uses  interest  rate  swap
agreements  to hedge its exposure to interest rate  fluctuations  related to the
anticipated  purchase of assets to support  newly  acquired  blocks of business.
Once the assets are purchased the gains  resulting  from the  termination of the
swap  agreements  will be applied to the basis of the assets.  The gains will be
recognized in earnings over the life of the assets.

Put Options. LNC uses put options,  combined with various perpetual fixed income
securities,  and interest rate swaps to replicate a fixed income, fixed maturity
investment.  The put options give LNC the right, but not the obligation, to sell
to the  counterparty  of the agreement  the specified  securities on a specified
date at a fixed price.

Foreign Currency  Derivatives (Foreign  Investments).  LNC uses a combination of
foreign  exchange  forward  contracts,  foreign  currency  options  and  foreign
currency swaps, all of which are traded  over-the-counter,  to hedge some of the
foreign exchange risk of investments in fixed maturity securities denominated in
foreign  currencies.  The foreign  currency  forward  contracts  obligate LNC to
deliver a specified amount of currency at a future date at a specified  exchange
rate.  Foreign currency  options give LNC the right, but not the obligation,  to
buy or sell a foreign  currency at a specified  exchange rate during a specified
time period. A foreign currency swap is a contractual  agreement to exchange the
currencies of two different  countries  pursuant to an agreement to  re-exchange
the two currencies at the same rate of exchange at a specified future date.

Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts  (Foreign  Subsidiary).  LNC has used foreign
exchange  forward  contracts,  which are traded  over-the-counter,  to hedge the
foreign  exchange  risk  assumed  with its  investment  in its U.K.  subsidiary,
Lincoln National (UK). The foreign exchange forward  contracts  obligated LNC to
deliver a specified amount of currency at a future date at a specified  exchange
rate.

Commodity  Swap. LNC uses a commodity swap to hedge its exposure to fluctuations
in the  price of gold,  which is the  underlying  variable  in  determining  the
periodic interest payments associated with a fixed income security.  A commodity
swap is a  contractual  agreement  to exchange a certain  amount of a particular
commodity  for a fixed  amount of cash.  LNC owns a fixed income  security  that
meets its coupon payment obligations in gold bullion. LNC is obligated to pay to
the counterparty the gold bullion,  and in return receives from the counterparty
a stream of fixed income payments.  The fixed income payments are the product of
the swap notional multiplied by the fixed rate stated in the swap agreement. The
net  receipts/payments  from  commodity  swaps are  recorded  in net  investment
income.

Call  Options.  LNC uses both FTSE  index and S&P 500 index call  options.  Call
options which expire in 1999 through 2006, provide LNC with settlement  payments
from the counterparties on specified  expiration dates. The payment,  if any, is
the  percentage  increase  in the index,  over the strike  price  defined in the
contract,  applied to the notional amount. The purpose of LNC's FTSE call option
program is to offset the cost of increases in the  liabilities of certain single
premium  investment  contracts which are tied to the FTSE index.  The purpose of
LNC's S&P 500 call option  program is to offset the increase in its  liabilities
resulting from certain  reinsurance  agreements  which guarantee  payment of the
appreciation of the S&P 500 index on certain  underlying  annuity products.  The
premium  paid for the S&P 500 index call  options is  included  in other  assets
($16,800,000  as of December 31, 1998) and is being  amortized over the terms of
the agreements. This amortization is included in net investment income.

Additional Derivative Information.  Expenses for the agreements and contracts 
described above amounted to $11,600,000 and $10,000,000 in 1998 and 1997, 
respectively.  Deferred gains of $64,800,000 as of December 31, 1998, were the 
result of: 1) terminated and expired spread-lock agreements and; 2) terminated






interest rate swaps.  These gains are included  with the related fixed  maturity
securities to which the hedge applied or as deferred  liabilities  and are being
amortized over the life of such securities.

LNC is exposed to credit loss in the event of  nonperformance  by counterparties
on interest rate cap agreements,  swaptions,  spread-lock  agreements,  interest
rate swaps, commodity swaps, call options, put options, foreign exchange forward
contracts,  foreign currency options and foreign  currency swaps.  However,  LNC
does not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties. The credit risk
associated  with such agreements is minimized by purchasing such agreements from
financial  institutions with long-standing,  superior  performance  records. The
amount of such exposure is essentially the net replacement  cost or market value
for such agreements  with each  counterparty if the net market value is in LNC's
favor. At December 31, 1998, the exposure was $53,000,000.

8.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following  discussion  outlines the  methodologies  and assumptions  used to
determine the estimated fair value of LNC's financial instruments.  Considerable
judgment is required to develop  these fair values.  Accordingly,  the estimates
shown are not necessarily  indicative of the amounts that would be realized in a
one-time, current market exchange of all of LNC's financial instruments.

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities.  Fair values for fixed maturity securities
are  based  on  quoted  market  prices,  where  available.  For  fixed  maturity
securities not actively traded,  fair values are estimated using values obtained
from  independent  pricing  services.  In the case of private  placements,  fair
values are estimated by discounting  expected  future cash flows using a current
market rate  applicable to the coupon rate,  credit  quality and maturity of the
investments.  The fair values for equity  securities  are based on quoted market
prices.

Mortgage  Loans on Real Estate.  The estimated  fair value of mortgage  loans on
real estate was established  using a discounted cash flow method based on credit
rating,  maturity and future income.  The ratings for mortgages in good standing
are based on property type, location, market conditions, occupancy, debt service
coverage,  loan to value, caliber of tenancy,  borrower and payment record. Fair
values  for  impaired  mortgage  loans are based  on:  1) the  present  value of
expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective  interest rate; 2)
the loan's  market price or; 3) the fair value of the  collateral if the loan is
collateral dependent.

Policy  Loans.  The  estimated  fair value of  investments  in policy  loans was
calculated on a composite  discounted  cash flow basis using  Treasury  interest
rates consistent with the maturity durations assumed.
These durations were based on historical experience.

Other  Investments,  and Cash and Invested  Cash.  The carrying value for assets
classified as other investments,  and cash and invested cash in the accompanying
balance sheets approximates their fair value.

Investment Type Insurance Contracts. The balance sheet captions,  "Future Policy
Benefits,  Claims  and  Claim  Expenses"  and  "Contractholder  Funds,"  include
investment  type  insurance  contracts  (i.e.  deposit  contracts and guaranteed
interest  contracts).  The fair  values for the  deposit  contracts  and certain
guaranteed  interest contracts are based on their approximate  surrender values.
The fair values for the remaining  guaranteed interest and similar contracts are
estimated using discounted cash flow calculations.  These calculations are based
on interest rates  currently  offered on similar  contracts with maturities that
are consistent with those remaining for the contracts being valued.

The remainder of the balance sheet captions "Future Policy Benefits,  Claims and
Claim  Expenses" and  "Contractholder  Funds" that do not fit the  definition of
"investment type insurance contracts" are considered  insurance contracts.  Fair
value  disclosures are not required for these  insurance  contracts and have not
been  determined by LNC. It is LNC's  position  that the  disclosure of the fair
value of  these  insurance  contracts  is  important  because  readers  of these
financial   statements  could  draw   inappropriate   conclusions   about  LNC's
shareholders' equity determined on a fair value basis. It could be misleading if
only the fair value of assets and liabilities  defined as financial  instruments
are disclosed.  LNC and other companies in the insurance industry are monitoring
the  related  actions  of the  various  rule-making  bodies  and  attempting  to
determine an  appropriate  methodology  for  estimating and disclosing the "fair
value" of their insurance contract liabilities.

Short-term and Long-term  Debt.  Fair values for long-term debt issues are based
on quoted market prices or estimated  using  discounted cash flow analysis based
on LNC's current incremental borrowing rate for






similar types of borrowing  arrangements  where quoted prices are not available.
For short-term debt, the carrying value approximates fair value.

Minority Interest - Preferred  Securities of Subsidiary  Companies.  Fair values
for minority interest- preferred securities of subsidiary companies are based on
quoted market prices less the unamortized cost of issue.

Guarantees.  LNC's guarantees  include  guarantees related to industrial revenue
bonds,  real estate  partnerships and mortgage loan  pass-through  certificates.
Based on historical  performance  where repurchases have been negligible and the
current status, which indicates none of the loans are delinquent, the fair value
liability  for  the  guarantees   related  to  the  mortgage  loan  pass-through
certificates is insignificant.

Derivatives.  LNC employs  several  different  methods for  determining the fair
value of its derivative  instruments.  Fair values for these contracts are based
on current settlement values. These values are based on: 1) quoted market prices
for foreign  currency  exchange  contracts  and financial  futures  contracts 2)
industry  standard models that are commercially  available for interest rate cap
agreements,  swaptions,  spread-lock agreements,  interest rate swaps, commodity
swaps and put options.  3) Monte Carlo techniques are used for the exotic equity
call  options.  These  techniques  project cash flows of the  derivatives  using
current and implied  future market  conditions.  The cash flows are then present
valued to arrive at the derivatives  current fair market value. 4) Black-Scholes
pricing methodology for standard European equity call options.

Investment Commitments. Fair values for commitments to make investments in fixed
maturity  securities  (primarily  private  placements),  mortgage  loans on real
estate and real  estate  are based on the  difference  between  the value of the
committed  investments as of the date of the accompanying balance sheets and the
commitment  date.  These  estimates  would take into account changes in interest
rates,  the  counterparties'  credit  standing  and the  remaining  terms of the
commitments.

Separate  Accounts.  Assets  held  in  separate  accounts  are  reported  in the
accompanying  consolidated balance sheets at fair value. The related liabilities
are also reported at fair value in amounts equal to the separate account assets.

The carrying values and estimated fair values of LNC's financial instruments are
as follows:


As of December 31, 1998 and 1997,  the carrying  value of the deposit  contracts
and  certain  guaranteed  contracts  is net of  deferred  acquisition  costs  of
$52,600,000 and $96,400,000,  respectively,  excluding  adjustments for deferred
acquisition  costs  applicable  to  changes  in fair  value of  securities.  The
carrying values of these contracts are stated net of deferred  acquisition costs
so that they are comparable with the fair value basis.






9.  Segment Information

LNC has four  business  segments:  Life  Insurance  and  Annuities,  Lincoln UK,
Reinsurance and Investment Management.  The Life Insurance and Annuities segment
offers  annuities,   universal  life,  pension  products  and  other  individual
coverages through a network of career agents,  independent general agencies, and
insurance  agencies  located within a variety of financial  institutions.  These
products are sold  throughout the United  States.  The Lincoln UK segment offers
similar  products  within  the United  Kingdom  through  sales  representatives.
Reinsurance  sells  reinsurance  products and  services to insurance  companies,
HMOs,  self-funded  employers and other primary risk accepting  organizations in
the U.S. and  economically  attractive  international  markets.  The  Investment
Management   segment   offers  a  variety  of  asset   management   services  to
institutional  and retail  customers  primarily  throughout  the United  States.
Activity which is not included in the major business segments is shown as "Other
Operations."

"Other  Operations"  includes  operations  not directly  related to the business
segments and unallocated  corporate items (i.e.,  corporate  investment  income,
interest  expense on corporate debt and unallocated  overhead  expenses).  LNC's
other operations also includes data for its investment  management  company that
services LNC's business segments.

Financial data by segment for 1996 through 1998 is as follows:










Substantially all of LNC's foreign  operations are conducted by Lincoln National
(UK) plc, a United  Kingdom  company.  The data for this  company is shown above
under the  Lincoln  UK  segment  heading.  Foreign  intracompany  revenue is not
significant.  All earnings from LNC's U.K.  operations have been retained in the
U.K.

10.  Shareholders' Equity

LNC's common and preferred stock is without par value.

All of the issued and  outstanding  series A  preferred  stock is $3  Cumulative
Convertible  and is  convertible  at any time into shares of common  stock.  The
conversion  rate is eight  shares  of common  stock  for each  share of series A
preferred  stock,  subject  to  adjustment  for  certain  events.  The  series A
preferred stock is redeemable at the option of LNC at $80 per share plus accrued
and unpaid  dividends.  Outstanding  series A  preferred  stock has full  voting
rights,  subject  to  adjustment  if LNC is in  default  as to  the  payment  of
dividends.  If LNC is  liquidated  or  dissolved,  holders of series A preferred
stock will be entitled to payments of $80.00 per share.  The difference  between
the  aggregate  preference  on  liquidation  value and the  financial  statement
balance for the series A preferred stock was $1,554,000 at December 31, 1998.

LNC  has   outstanding  one  common  share  purchase  right  ("Right")  on  each
outstanding  share of LNC's common stock.  A Right will also be issued with each
share of LNC's common stock that is issued before the Rights become  exercisable
or  expire.  If a person  or group  announces  an offer  that  would  result  in
beneficial  ownership  of 15% or more of LNC's  common  stock,  the Rights  will
become  exercisable and each Right will entitle its holder to purchase one share
of LNC's common  stock for $200.  Upon the  acquisition  of 15% or more of LNC's
common stock, each holder of a Right (other than the person acquiring the 15% or
more)  will have the right to acquire  the number of shares of LNC common  stock
that have a market value of two times the exercise price of the Right. If LNC is
acquired in a business  combination  transaction  in which LNC does not survive,
each holder of a Right (other than the acquiring  person) will have the right to
acquire common stock of the acquiring  person having a market value of two times
the exercise  price of the Right.  LNC can redeem each Right for one cent at any
time prior to the tenth day after a person or group has  acquired 15% or more of
LNC's common  stock.  The Rights expire on November 14, 2006. As of December 31,
1998, there were 101,055,587 Rights outstanding.






During 1998,  1997 and 1996,  LNC purchased and retired  623,281;  4,948,900 and
694,582  shares,  respectively,   of  its  common  stock  at  a  total  cost  of
$46,900,000;  $325,300,000  and  $35,000,000,  respectively.  The  common  stock
account was reduced for these purchases in proportion to the percentage of share
acquired. The remainder of the purchase price was charged to retained earnings.

Per share  amounts for net income from  continuing  operations  are shown on the
income statement using 1) an earnings per common share basic  calculation and 2)
an earnings per common share-assuming dilution calculation.  A reconciliation of
the factors used in the two calculations are as follows:


LNC has stock options outstanding which were issued at prices that are above the
current  average  market  price of LNC common  stock.  In the event the  average
market  price of LNC's common  stock  exceeds the issue price of stock  options,
such options would be dilutive to LNC's  earnings per share and will be shown in
the table above. Also, LNC has purchase contracts  outstanding which require the
holder to purchase LNC common stock by August 16, 2001. These purchase contracts
were issued in conjunction with the FELINE PRIDES  financing.  The common shares
involved are not currently  dilutive to LNC's earnings per share and will not be
dilutive in the future  except during  periods when the average  market price of
LNC's common stock exceeds a stated threshold price of $111.45 per share.

Details  underlying  the balance  sheet caption "Net  Unrealized  Gain (Loss) on
Securities Available-for-Sale," are as follows:


Adjustments  to  deferred  acquisition  costs and  amounts  required  to satisfy
policyholder commitments are netted against the Deferred Acquisition Costs asset
line and included  within the  Insurance  Policy and Claim  Reserves line on the
balance sheet, respectively.








The "Net Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Securities Available-for-Sale" shown above is
net of  realized  gain  (loss) on  investments.  Following  is the detail of the
realized  gain  (loss)  on  investments  and  gross  unrealized  gain  (loss) on
securities available-for-sale:


11.  Acquisitions/Sales of Subsidiaries, Discontinued Operations and 
     Organizational Review

In May 1996,  16.7% of  American  States  Financial  Corporation  ("ASFC"),  the
holding company of LNC's principal property-casualty subsidiary, was sold to the
public in the form of an  initial  public  offering  of its common  stock.  ASFC
received  net  proceeds  of  $215,200,000  from the sale of this 16.7%  minority
interest and LNC recorded a non-taxable realized gain, net of expenses, directly
in shareholders' equity of $15,000,000.  LNC continued to fully consolidate this
operation  within its financial  statements and tax reporting  until the sale of
the remaining 83.3% (see below).

In October 1996, LNC purchased a block of group  tax-qualified  annuity business
from UNUM Corporation's affiliates. The bulk of the transaction was completed in
the form of a reinsurance transaction,  which resulted in a ceding commission of
$71,800,000.  The ceding  commission,  along with  $67,000,000 to cover expenses
associated with the purchase,  represents the present value of business in-force
and  accordingly has been  classified as an intangible  asset.  LNC's assets and
liabilities increased $3,200,000,000 as a result of this transaction.

In April 1997, LNC completed the  acquisition  of Voyageur Fund  Managers,  Inc.
("Voyageur")  for  $74,000,000.  While this  includes cash paid out for expenses
associated with the purchase,  the bulk of the purchase price was covered by the
issuance  of  1,323,144  shares of LNC common  stock to the  previous  owners of
Voyageur.  Purchase accounting has been applied to this acquisition resulting in
intangible assets of $78,900,000.  Voyageur's  operating results are included in
LNC's consolidated financial statements from the closing date.

On June 9, 1997,  LNC  announced  that it agreed to sell its 83.3%  ownership in
American States Financial Corporation for $2,650,000,000.  As this sale resulted
in an exit from the property-casualty  business (previously a business segment),
the  financial  data  from  the  units  being  sold are  shown  as  discontinued
operations  in the  accompanying  financial  statements.  June 9,  1997,  is the
measurement date for purposes of discontinued operations.  Following the closing
of this  transaction  on  October  1,  1997,  the  gain on sale of  $776,900,000
($1,224,500,000 pre-tax) was recorded within discontinued  operations.  LNC used
these proceeds to repurchase $341,800,000,  (4,993,281 shares) of its own common
stock, retire $86,700,000 of long-term debt, purchase a 49% ownership in Seguros
Serfin Lincoln for $85,000,000  pay income taxes of $447,600,000  related to the
sale of  discontinued  operations  and  purchase  a  block  of  individual  life
insurance and annuity business for $1,642,500,000 (see below). The remainder was
used to pay off a portion of LNC's  short-term  debt and to invest  for  general
corporate purposes, then later used to fund a portion of the purchase of another
block of individual life insurance business.








Net Income from discontinued operations was as follows:
                                                    Nine Months       Year Ended
                                                 Ended September     December 31
                 (in millions)                       30, 1997             1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            $1,538.5           $1,987.7
Benefits and expenses....................             1,363.6            1,799.0
                                                      -------            -------
    Pre-tax net income....................              174.9              188.7
Federal income taxes......................               40.0               31.5
                                                     --------           --------
    Net income............................           $  134.9           $  157.2

On January 2, 1998,  LNC acquired of a block of  individual  life  insurance and
annuity  business from CIGNA  Corporation for  $1,414,000,000.  Additional funds
($228,500,000)  were  required  to  provide  additional  capital  for  the  Life
Insurance and Annuities  segment to support this business and to cover  expenses
associated with the purchase. Funding used to complete this acquisition was from
the proceeds of the sale of the property-casualty  business in 1997 (see note 11
on page 65). This  transaction was accounted for using purchase  accounting and,
accordingly,  operating  results  generated by this block of business  after the
closing date are included in LNC's  consolidated  financial  statements.  At the
time of closing, this block of business had liabilities, measured on a statutory
basis, of $5,500,000,000 that became LNC's obligation.  LNC also received assets
measured on a historical  statutory basis, equal to the liabilities.  Subsequent
to this acquisition,  LNC announced that it had reached an agreement to sell the
administration  rights to a variable annuity portfolio that had been acquired as
part of the block of  business  acquired  January 2, 1998.  This sale  closed on
October 12, 1998 with an effective  date of August 1, 1998.  The  application of
purchase accounting to this block of business,  net of the administration rights
sold,  resulted in goodwill  and other  intangible  assets of  $807,000,000  and
$464,000,000,  respectively.  Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement
LNC and CIGNA are in the final  stages of agreeing to the value of these  assets
and  liabilities.  Any changes to these values that may occur in future  periods
will not be  material  to  LNC's  financial  position.  In  connection  with the
completion of this acquisition,  LNC recorded a charge to its Life Insurance and
Annuities  segment during the first quarter of 1998 of $20,000,000  ($31,000,000
pre-tax).  This  restructuring  charge covered  certain costs of integrating the
existing operations with the new block of business.

On October 1, 1998,  LNC  acquired a block of  individual  life  insurance  from
Aetna,  Inc for  $1,000,000,000.  Funding used to complete this  acquisition was
primarily from public  securities  offered in 1998 (see note 5 on page 51). This
transaction was accounted for using purchase  accounting and,  accordingly,  the
operating results generated by this block of business after the closing date are
included in LNC's consolidated financial statements. At the time of closing this
block  of  business  had   liabilities   measured  on  a  statutory   basis,  of
$3,300,000,000 that became LNC's obligation.  LNC also received assets, measured
on a historical  statutory basis,  equal to the liabilities.  In August of 1998,
LNC  announced  that it had  reached an  agreement  to sell the  sponsored  life
business  acquired as part of the Aetna block of  business.  This sale closed on
October 14, 1998 with an  effective  date of October 1, 1998 at a sales price of
$99,500,000.  During 1997,  after deducting the sponsored life income  statement
amounts, the Aetna block produced premiums and fees of $227,800,000 and earnings
of $65,000,000 on a basis of generally accepted accounting  principles (prior to
adjustments  required  by  purchase  accounting).  The  initial  application  of
purchase  accounting  to this  block  of  business,  net of the  sponsored  life
business  resulted  in  goodwill  and  other  intangibles  of  $220,000,000  and
$871,000,000,  respectively.  Additional  analysis of this block of business may
result in a change in the amounts or the  shifting of amounts  between  goodwill
and other intangible assets.

The consolidated proforma results of operations shown below assumes that the two
blocks of business  described  in the  preceding  paragraphs  were  purchased on
January 1, 1997.


This proforma financial information is not necessarily  indicative of the actual
results that would have occurred had the purchases  been made on January 1, 1997
or of the results which may occur in the future.








As  noted  above,  LNC  has  been  involved  in a  series  of  divestitures  and
acquisitions  during the last few years. These changes,  along with on-going and
increasing  competitive  pressures within the business LNC operates in, led to a
decision  to initiate  an  organizational/expense  review.  This  review,  which
centered around the size and make-up of the parent company, was completed in the
fourth  quarter of 1998.  As a result,  LNC recorded a  restructuring  charge of
$14,300,000  ($22,000,000  pre-tax)  in the  fourth  quarter  of 1998 to provide
severance for the personnel that were  eliminated and to cover costs  associated
with the resulting excess office space and equipment.






Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors

Board of Directors
Lincoln National Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lincoln National
Corporation  as of  December  31, 1998 and 1997,  and the  related  consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period  ended  December  31,  1998.  Our audits also  included  the
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 14(a). These financial
statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Corporation's management.
Our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements and
schedules based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects,  the consolidated  financial position of Lincoln National
Corporation at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the  consolidated  results of its
operations  and its cash flows for each of the three  years in the period  ended
December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles.
Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered
in relation to the basic financial  statements taken as a whole,  present fairly
in all material respects the information set forth therein.

Ernst & Young LLP


Fort Wayne, Indiana
February 1, 1999












Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on  Accounting and 
         Financial Disclosures

There have been no  disagreements  with  LNC's  independent  auditors  which are
reportable pursuant to Item 304 of Regulation S-K.






PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information  for this item  relating  to  directors  of LNC is  incorporated  by
reference  to  the  sections  captioned  "NOMINEES  FOR  DIRECTOR",   "DIRECTORS
CONTINUING IN OFFICE" and  "COMPLIANCE  WITH SECTION 16(a) OF THE SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934", of LNC's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting scheduled
for May 13, 1999.


 * Denotes a subsidiary of LNC
** Age shown is based on nearest birthdate to March 1, 1999.

There is no family relationship between any of the foregoing executive officers,
all of whom are elected annually.








Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the section  captioned
"EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION"  of  LNC's  Proxy  Statement  for the  Annual  Meeting
scheduled for May 13, 1999.


Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the sections captioned
"SECURITY  OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS" and "SECURITY  OWNERSHIP OF
DIRECTORS,  NOMINEES AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS" of LNC's Proxy  Statement for the
Annual Meeting scheduled for May 13, 1999.


Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the section  captioned
"TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  ARRANGEMENT" of LNC's Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting scheduled for May 13, 1999.


PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K


Item 14(a)(1) Financial Statements

The following  consolidated financial statements of Lincoln National Corporation
are included in Item 8:

   Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1998 and 1997

   Consolidated Statements of Income - Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 

   Consolidated  Statements of  Shareholders'  Equity - Years ended December 31,
   1998, 1997 and 1996

   Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended December 31, 1998,  1997
   and 1996

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

   Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors


Item 14(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules

The following  consolidated  financial  statement  schedules of Lincoln National
Corporation are included in Item 14(d):

   I - Summary of Investments - Other than Investments in Related Parties
  II - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
 III - Supplementary Insurance Information
  IV - Reinsurance
   V - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

All other  schedules for which  provision is made in the  applicable  accounting
regulation of the Securities and Exchange  Commission are not required under the
related instructions,  are inapplicable, or the required information is included
in the consolidated financial statements, and therefore omitted.









Item 14(a)(3) Listing of Exhibits

The following exhibits of Lincoln National Corporation are included in Item 14 -
Note:  The numbers  preceding the exhibits  correspond  to the specific  numbers
within Item 601 of Regulation S-K.):

    3(a)   The Articles of Incorporation of LNC as last amended effective May 
           12, 1994.

    3(b)   The Bylaws of LNC as last amended January 14, 1998 is incorporated by
           reference  to  Exhibit  3(b) of LNC's  Form  10-K for the year  ended
           December 31, 1997, filed with the Commission on March 18, 1998.

    4(a)   Indenture  of LNC dated as of January  15,  1987 is  incorporated  by
           reference  to  Exhibit  4(a) of LNC's  Form  10-K for the year  ended
           December 31, 1994, filed with the Commission on March 27, 1995.

    4(b)   First  Supplemental  Indenture dated as of July 1, 1992, to Indenture
           of LNC dated as of January 15, 1987 is  incorporated  by reference to
           Exhibit 4(b) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996,
           filed with the Commission on March 13, 1997.

    4(c)   Specimen  Notes  for 7 1/8%  Notes  due July 15,  1999 and for 7 5/8%
           Notes due July 15, 2002 are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c)
           of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1996,  filed with
           the Commission on March 13, 1997.

    4(d)   Rights  Agreement  of  LNC as  last  amended  November  14,  1996  is
           incorporated by reference to LNC's Form 8-K filed with the Commission
           on November 22, 1996.

    4(e)   Indenture of LNC dated as of September 15, 1994,  between LNC and The
           Bank of New York, as Trustee.

    4(f)   Form of Note is incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.4(d) to LNC's
           Registration  Statement on Form S-3/A (Commission File No. 33-55379),
           filed with the Commission on September 15, 1994.

    4(g)   Form of Zero Coupon  Security is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
           No. 4(f) of LNC's  Registration  Statement on Form S-3/A  (Commission
           File No. 33-55379), filed with the Commission on September 15, 1994.

    4(h)   Specimen  of  LNC's  9  1/8%   Debentures  due  October  1,  2024  is
           incorporated  by reference to Schedule I of LNC's Form 8-K filed with
           the Commission on September 29, 1994.

    4(I)   Specimen of LNC's 7 1/4%  Debenture due May 15, 2005 is  incorporated
           by  reference  to  Schedule  III of  LNC's  Form 8-K  filed  with the
           Commission on May 17, 1995.

    4(j)   Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 1, 1996 between LNC and
           The First  National Bank of Chicago is  incorporated  by reference to
           Exhibit 4(j) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996,
           filed with the Commission on March 13, 1997.

    4(k)   Guarantee Agreement for Lincoln National Capital I is incorporated by
           reference  to  Exhibit  4(k) of LNC's  Form  10-K for the year  ended
           December 31, 1996, filed with the Commission on March 13, 1997.

    4(l)   Guarantee  Agreement for Lincoln  National Capital II is incorporated
           by  reference  to Exhibit  4(l) of LNC's form 10-K for the year ended
           December 31, 1996, filed with the Commission on March 13, 1997.

    4(m)   Form of Lincoln National Capital I 8.75% Cumulative  Quarterly Income
           Preferred  Securities,  Series A (Commission  File No.  333-04133) is
           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(m) to LNC's Form 10- K for the
           year ended December 31, 1996,  filed with the Commission on March 13,
           1997.

    4(n)   Form of Lincoln National Capital II 8.35% Trust Originated  Preferred
           Securities,  Series B (Commission File No. 333-04133) is incorporated
           by  reference  to Exhibit  4(n) to LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended
           December 31, 1996, filed with the Commission on March 13, 1997.








    4(o)   Form of  Amended  and  Restated  Declaration  of  Trust  for  Lincoln
           National  Capital I and Lincoln  National  Capital II between LNC, as
           depositor,  The First National Bank of Chicago,  as property trustee,
           First  Chicago  Delaware,  Inc.,  as  Delaware  trustee,  and certain
           administrative  trustees is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(o)
           of LNC's Registration Statement (Commission File No.
           333-4133) filed with the commission on May 21, 1996.

    4(p)   Specimen of 6 1/2% Notes due March 15, 2008 incorporated by reference
           to Exhibit 4.1 LNC's Form 8-K filed with the  commission on March 24,
           1998.

    4(q)   Specimen of 7% Notes due March 15, 2018  incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 4.2 of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the  Commission on March 24,
           1998.

    4(r)   Amended and Restated Trust Agreement for Lincoln National Capital III
           between LNC, as depositor,  The First  National  Bank of Chicago,  as
           property trustee,  First Chicago Delaware,  Inc. as Delaware trustee,
           and the  administrative  trustees is  incorporated  by  reference  to
           Exhibit 4.1 of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the  Commission  on July 30,
           1998.

    4(s)   Form of 7.40% Trust  Originated  Preferred  Securities,  Series C, of
           Lincoln  National Capital III is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
           4.2 of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 30, 1998.

    4(t)   Guarantee  Agreement for Lincoln National Capital III is incorporated
           by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.4 of  LNC's  Form  8-K  filed  with the
           Commission on July 30, 1998.

    4(u)   Amended and Restated Trust Agreement for Lincoln  National Capital IV
           between LNC, as  depositor,  The First  National  Bank of Chicago,  a
           property  trustee,  First Chicago Delaware Inc., as Delaware trustee,
           and the  administrative  trustees is  incorporated  by  reference  to
           Exhibit 4.1 of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the Commission on August 27,
           1998.

    4(v)   Form of Income Prides  Certificate of Lincoln  National Capital IV is
           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 of LNC's Form 8-K filed with
           the Commission on August 27, 1998.

    4(w)   Form of Growth Prides  Certificates of Lincoln National Capital IV is
           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 of LNC's Form 8-K filed with
           the Commission on August 27, 1998.

    4(x)   Guarantee  Agreement for Lincoln  National Capital IV is incorporated
           by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.5 of  LNC's  Form  8-K  filed  with the
           Commission on August 27, 1998.

    4(y)   Purchase  Contract  Agreement between LNC and The First National Bank
           of Chicago, as Purchase Contract Agent,  relating to Lincoln National
           Capital IV is  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 of LNC's Form
           8-K filed with the Commission on August 27, 1998.

    4(z)   Pledge  Agreement among LNC, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as agent,  and
           The First National Bank of Chicago,  as Purchase  Agent,  relating to
           Lincoln  National  Capital IV is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
           4.9 of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the Commission on August 27, 1998.

   10(a)*  The Lincoln National Corporation 1986 Stock Option Incentive Plan.

   10(b)*  The Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Salary Continuation Plan
           as last  amended  January 1, 1992 is  incorporated  by  reference  to
           Exhibit  10(c) LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1997,
           filed with the Commission on March 18, 1998.

   10(c)*  The Lincoln  National  Corporation  Executive  Value  Sharing Plan as
           Amended and Restated effective January 1, 1994.

   10(d)*  Lincoln National  Corporation  Executives'  Severance Benefit Plan as
           Amended and Restated  effective  November 9, 1995 is  incorporated by
           reference  to  Exhibit  10(e) of LNC's  Form 10-K for the year  ended
           December 31, 1995, filed with the Commission on March 27, 1996.

   10(e)*  The Lincoln National Corporation Outside Directors Retirement Plan as
           last amended effective March 15, 1990 is incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit  10(f) of LNC's  Form 10-K for the year  ended  December  31,
           1995, filed with the Commission on March 27, 1996.

   10(f)*  The Lincoln National  Corporation  Outside Directors Benefits Plan is
           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) of LNC's Form 10-K for the
           year ended December 31, 1997,  filed with the Commission on March 18,
           1998.






   10(g)*  Lincoln  National  Corporation  Directors' Value Sharing Plan as last
           amended  effective  May 14,  1998 is  incorporated  by  reference  to
           Exhibit 10(6) of LNC's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998,
           filed with the Commission on July 27, 1998.

   10(h)*  Lincoln National Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan for
           Employees  (Commission File No.  33-51721) as last amended  effective
           February 16, 1998 is  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  10(I) of
           LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997,  filed with the
           Commission on March 18, 1998.

   10(I)*  Lincoln National Corporation 1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee  
           Directors (Commission File No.33-58113) as last amended effective 
           November 11, 1998.

   10(j)*  Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Excess Compensation Benefit
           Plan.

   10(k)*  Lincoln National Corporation 1997 Incentive Compensation Plan as last
           amended  effective  May 14,  1998 is  incorporated  by  reference  to
           Exhibit 10(a) of LNC's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998,
           filed with the Commission on July 27, 1998.

   10(l)*  Descriptions of compensation arrangements with Executive Officers.

   10(m)   Lease and Agreement  dated August 1, 1984, with respect to LNL's Home
           Office  property  located at Magnavox  Way,  Fort Wayne,  Indiana are
           incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) of LNC's Form 10-K for the
           year ended December 31, 1995,  filed with the Commission on March 27,
           1996.

   10(n)   Lease and Agreement  dated August 1, 1984, with respect to LNL's Home
           Office properties located at Clinton Street and Harrison Street, Fort
           Wayne,  Indiana are  incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  10(n) of
           LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  filed with the
           Commission on March 27, 1996.

   10(o)   Lease and  Agreement  dated  December 1, 1994,  with respect to LNC's
           Corporate  Office  located  at 200 East  Berry  Street,  Fort  Wayne,
           Indiana, are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) of LNC's Form
           10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,  filed with the Commission
           on March 27, 1995.

   10(p)   Agreement of Lease dated  February 17, 1998,  with respect to Lincoln
           Life's  life  products  headquarters  located at 350  Church  Street,
           Hartford,  Connecticut is  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(q)
           of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1997,  filed with
           the Commission on March 18, 1998.

           *This  exhibit  is a  management  contract  or  compensatory  plan or
            arrangement  required  to be  filed  as an  exhibit  to  this  form
            pursuant to Item 14 of this report.

   12      Historical Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
   21      List of Subsidiaries of LNC.
   23      Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.
   27      Financial Data Schedule.


Item 14(b)

During the fourth  quarter of 1998, LNC filed a Form 8-K and Form 8-K/A with the
Commission  regarding LNC's  acquisition of a block of individual life insurance
from Aetna,  Inc.  These  filings which were dated October 14, 1998 and December
14, 1998  include pro forma  information  and audited  statements  covering  the
business acquired.

Item 14(c)

The exhibits of Lincoln National Corporation are listed in Item 14(a)(3) above.


Item 14(d)

The financial  statement  schedules for Lincoln National  Corporation  follow on
pages 73 through 79.








                          LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

          SCHEDULE I - SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS - OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS
                               IN RELATED PARTIES




(1)  Investments  deemed to have declines in value that are other than temporary
     are written down or reserved for to reduce  their  carrying  value to their
     estimated realizable value.







                          LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

           SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                 BALANCE SHEETS



 *Eliminated in consolidation.
**Includes short-term funds invested in behalf of LNC's subsidiaries.

These  condensed  financial  statements  should be read in conjunction  with the
consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes of Lincoln National
Corporation (see pages 36 through 67).







                                LINCOLN NATIONAL



*Eliminated in consolidation.




These  condensed  financial  statements  should be read in conjunction  with the
consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes of Lincoln National
Corporation (see pages 36 through 67).








                          LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

     SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (Continued)

                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


*Eliminated in consolidation.

These  condensed  financial  statements  should be read in conjunction  with the
consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes of Lincoln National
Corporation (see pages 36 through 67).







                          LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
               SCHEDULE III - SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION



(1) Includes  insurance  fees on  universal  life and other  interest  sensitive
    products.
(2) The allocation of expenses  between  investments  and other  operations are
    based on a number of  assumptions  and  estimates.  Results would change if
    different methods were applied.







                          LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

                            SCHEDULE IV - REINSURANCE






(1) Includes  insurance  fees on  universal  life and other  interest  sensitive
    products.








                          LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

                 SCHEDULE V - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS





(1)  Excludes charges for the direct write-offs of assets.  The negative amounts
     shown in the additions  columns  represent  improvement  in the  underlying
     assets and guarantees  for which  valuation  accounts had  previously  been
     established.

(2) Deductions reflect sales or foreclosures of the underlying holdings.








                          LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
                EXHIBIT INDEX FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K


              *Incorporated by Reference








