
10-K
10K98








                                    UNITED STATES
                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                Washington, D.C. 20549

                                      FORM 10-K

                       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
                     15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 
                                              ----------------
                            Commission File Number 1-8036
                                                  ---------
                    WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC.                  
                    --------------------------------------
                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                Pennsylvania                              23-1210010       
          ------------------------------------          -------------------
          (State or other jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer 
           incorporation or organization)            Identification Number)


          101 Gordon Drive, PO Box 645, Lionville, PA          19341-0645  
          ---------------------------------------------    ----------------
          (Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)  

          Registrant's telephone number, including area code  610-594-2900  
                                                             ----------


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

            Title of each class   Name of each exchange on which registered
          -----------------------------------------------------------------
          Common Stock, par value    New York Stock Exchange               
              $.25 per share

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                         None
                                         ----
          Indicate by check mark  whether the registrant (1) has  filed all
          reports  required to  be  filed by  Section  13 or  15(d)  of the
          Securities Exchange Act  of 1934 during  the preceding 12  months
          (or for such shorter  period that the registrant was  required to
          file  such  reports), and  (2) has  been  subject to  such filing
          requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X .  No    .
                                                   ---     ---
          Indicate  by  check  mark  if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
          pursuant to Item 405  of Regulation S-K is not  contained herein,
          and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
          in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
          reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
          this Form 10-K.    

          
          As of March 17, 1999, the Registrant had 15,099,072 shares of its
          Common  Stock outstanding.  The market value of Common Stock held
          by  non-affiliates  of  the  Registrant   as  of  that  date  was
          $514,312,140.

          Exhibit Index appears on pages F-1, F-2, F-3, and F-4.

          





                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                         ------------------------------------
          Documents   incorporated  by   reference:  1)  portions   of  the
          Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the Company's 1998
          fiscal  year  (the  "1998  Annual Report  to  Shareholders")  are
          incorporated by reference in Parts I  and II; and (2) portions of
          the   Registrant's   definitive  Proxy   Statement   (the  "Proxy
          Statement") are incorporated by reference in Part III.

          


                                        PART I

          Item l.   Business
                    --------

                                     The Company
                                     -----------


          West Pharmaceutical Services,  Inc. (formerly  The West  Company,
          Incorporated)  applies  value-added  services to  the  process of
          bringing  new drug  therapies and  healthcare products  to global
          markets.  West's technologies include the design and  manufacture
          of   packaging  components  for  pharmaceutical,  healthcare  and
          consumer products; the research and development of drug  delivery
          systems, and contract laboratory services and other services that
          support   the   manufacturing,    filling   and   packaging    of
          pharmaceutical, healthcare  and consumer products.  The Company's
          activities are  organized in  three  operating segments:  1)  the
          Device Product  Development segment (consisting of  four regional
          business units serving global markets) designs, manufactures, and
          sells  stoppers,   closures,   medical  device   components   and
          assemblies  made  from elastomers,  metal and  plastics;   2) the
          Contract  Services  segment  (consisting  of two  business  units
          serving  the  United States  and  Puerto  Rico markets)  provides
          contract manufacturing  and  contract packaging  services to  the
          pharmaceutical   and  personal   care  industries   and  contract
          laboratory services  for testing injectable  drug packaging;  and
          3) the Drug Delivery Research and Development segment (consisting
          of two  business units)  identifies  and develops  drug  delivery
          systems for biopharmaceutical  and other drugs  to improve  their
          therapeutic  performance and/or  their method  of administration.
          As of December  31, 1998,  the Company and  its subsidiaries  had
          4,800 employees.

          The Company, a Pennsylvania business corporation, was founded  in
          1923.   The executive  offices of the Company  are located at 101
          Gordon Drive, PO  Box 645, Lionville,  Pennsylvania   19341-0645,
          approximately 35  miles from Philadelphia.   The telephone number
          at the Company's executive  offices is 610-594-2900.  As  used in
          this  Item,  the  term  "Company"  includes  West  Pharmaceutical
          Services,  Inc. and  its  consolidated subsidiaries,  unless  the
          context otherwise indicates.

                              Device Product Development
                                  Principal Products
               --------------------------------------------------------

          Pharmaceutical Stoppers
          -----------------------
          The Company is  the world's largest  independent manufacturer  of
          stoppers  for  sealing   drug  vials  and  other   pharmaceutical
          containers. Several hundred  proprietary formulations are  molded
          from natural  rubber and synthetic  elastomers into a  variety of




          stopper  sizes,  shapes and  colors.   The  stoppers are  used in
          packaging serums, vaccines, antibiotics, anesthetics, intravenous
          solutions and other drugs.  

          Most stopper formulations are specially designed to be compatible
          with  drugs so that the drugs will remain effective and unchanged
          during storage.  New rubber compounds must be tested to show that
          they  do  not leach  into the  customer's  product or  affect its
          potency,   sterility,  effectiveness,  color  or  clarity.    The
          Company's   laboratories     conduct   tests  to   determine  the
          compatibility of  its stoppers with customers' drugs  and, in the
          United  States, file  formulation information  with the  Food and
          Drug   Administration  in   support   of   customers'  new   drug
          applications.

          Stoppers usually are washed, sterilized and subject to other pre-
          use  processes by the customer  or a third-party  before they are
          fitted  on the  container.   However,  the  Company has  recently
          introduced a value-added line of stoppers that are pre-washed and
          ready to  be sterilized, eliminating several  steps in customers'
          incoming processes.  The Company is also marketing a line of pre-
          sterilized  stoppers   that  can  be  introduced   directly  into
          customers' sterile drug-filling operations.

          Metal Seals
          -----------
          The Company also offers a broad line of aluminum seals in various
          sizes,  shapes and colors.   The seals are  crimped onto glass or
          plastic pharmaceutical  containers to hold the  stoppers securely
          in place. The top of aluminum seals often contains tamper-evident
          tabs or plastic covers, which must be removed before the drug can
          be withdrawn.  

          Some  aluminum seals are sold with specially formulated rubber or
          elastomeric discs  pre-fitted inside  the  seal.   These  "lined"
          seals may  be placed directly onto  the pharmaceutical container,
          thus eliminating the need for a separate stopper.

          Other Products
          ---------------
          Other products for the pharmaceutical industry include:

                Products  used in  the packaging  of  non-injectable drugs
                 such as  rubber dropper bulbs, plastic  contraceptive drug
                 packages and  child-resistant and  tamper-evident  plastic
                 closures

                Plastic  bottles  and  containers  for the  pharmaceutical
                 industry 

                Rubber and  plastic  components for  empty and  pre-filled
                 disposable syringes  such  as plungers,  hubs  and  needle
                 covers




                Blood-sampling system  components, including  vacuum  tube
                 stoppers and needle  valves, and a  number of  specialized
                 rubber and plastic  components for blood-analyzing systems
                 and other medical devices

                Disposable infant nursers and individual nurser components

          The Company  also  manufactures  a wide  range  of  standard  and
          custom-designed  plastic  threaded caps  and  containers for  the
          personal-care industry.  The caps, produced mainly for  cosmetics
          and toiletries,  come in  many  different sizes  and colors.  The
          Company  also makes  closures for  food and  beverage processors.
          The Company  focuses its efforts on  multiple-piece closures that
          require high-speed assembly.


          Product Development
          ------------------------
          The Company  maintains  its  own  laboratories  for  testing  raw
          materials  and finished  goods to  assure conformity  to customer
          specifications  and to  safeguard  product quality.    Laboratory
          facilities  are  also  used  for  development  of  new  products.
          Engineering staffs are responsible for product and tooling design
          and testing  and for the  design and  construction of  processing
          equipment.    In  addition,   a  corporate  product   development
          department   develops  new   packaging   and   device   concepts.
          Approximately 120  professional employees were engaged  full time
          in  these  activities  in  1998.    Development  and  engineering
          expenditures for the creation and application of new and improved
          device  products and  manufacturing processes  were approximately
          $9.2 million in  1998, $8.8 million in  1997 and $8.9 million  in
          1996, net of cost reimbursements by customers.   

          Recent Developments
          -------------------
          The Company has taken  steps to expand its product  offerings and
          improve   competitiveness  of  its   Device  Product  Development
          operating segment.

          The Company  increased its capacity  in the components  area with
          the acquisition of Schubert  Seals A/S, a Danish  manufacturer of
          rubber  components   and  metal  seals   servicing  the  European
          pharmaceutical industry.   A 51% ownership  interest was acquired
          in  May  1994 and  the  remaining  49%  in December  1995.    The
          company's  name  was  recently  changed to  "West  Pharmaceutical
          Services Danmark A/S."  

          In 1996 and 1997,  the Company implemented a major  restructuring
          plan  announced  in  1996.  The  plan  included  the  closing  or
          downsizing of  six manufacturing facilities, withdrawal  from the
          machinery  business  and  an  approximate  5%  reduction  in  the
          workforce.   The restructuring  was designed to  reduce the costs
          associated with multiple plant sites and shift certain production
          capacity  to  lower-cost  locations.    In  1998,  a  further  1%




          reduction in the  workforce, made possible  by manufacturing  and
          other  operating  efficiencies,   was  announced.     (Additional
          information  pertaining  to these  activities is  incorporated by
          reference  to  the  Note  "Restructuring  Charges"  of  Notes  to
          Consolidated Financial Statements  of the 1998  Annual Report  to
          Shareholders.)

          In 1998, the Company acquired Betraine Limited, a company located
          in  the  U.K.,  which  manufactures  precision  injection  molded
          plastic components for  the healthcare  and consumer  industries.
          The  acquisition  expanded  global   capabilities  in  the   non-
          injectable market.

                                  Contract Services
                                  Principal Services
                           --------------------------------

          Contract Packaging and Contract Manufacturing
          ---------------------------------------------
          The Company entered  into the pharmaceutical  services market  in
          1995 with  its acquisition of Paco  Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
          ("Paco").      Paco's  name   was   recently   changed  to   West
          Pharmaceutical Services Lakewood, Inc. (West Lakewood).  

          West Lakewood  provides contract  manufacturing and packaging  of
          products  for  pharmaceutical  and  consumer-products  companies.
          With its  flexible manufacturing environment and  workforce, West
          Lakewood has  the  capability to  quickly undertake  to make  and
          package  products according to customers' specifications, usually
          employing customer-supplied raw materials.  Once the operation is
          complete, West  Lakewood delivers  the  finished product  to  the
          customer for final sale and distribution to the end user.  

          Customers  typically use  West Lakewood  services on  a temporary
          basis  to   supplement  their  own   manufacturing  or  packaging
          capability   during  a   new-product   introduction  or   special
          promotion.    However,    West  Lakewood  does  retain  long-term
          business  in both  the manufacturing and  packaging areas.   West
          Lakewood  operates  facilities  in   Lakewood,  New  Jersey   and
          Canovanas, Puerto Rico.  

          West Lakewood contract packaging and manufacturing processes  and
          services are subject to the Good Manufacturing Practice standards
          applicable to the  pharmaceutical industry as well as to numerous
          other federal  and  state  laws  and  regulations  governing  the
          manufacture, handling and packaging of drugs and other  regulated
          substances.  

          West   Lakewood   manufactures   liquids   and   creams,  solids,
          suspensions, and powders.  These products produced include:

                headache and cold medications

                skin lotions




                deodorants

                toothpaste and mouthwash

                metaproterenol and albuterol, products used for inhalation
                 therapy.

          West  Lakewood  contract-packaging services  include  the design,
          assembly and filling of a broad variety of packages, including 

                "blister"  packages  (i.e.,  a plastic  film  with a  foil
                 backing)

                 bottles and tubes

                 laminated and other flexible pouches or strip packages

                 aluminum and plastic liquid cup containers

                 paperboard specialty packages 

                 innovative tamper-evident and child-resistant packages

          Although the type of  package depends on the requirements  of the
          customer,  blister packaging  or bottles  typically are  used for
          tablets  and capsules  while aluminum  or plastic  cups, pouches,
          bottles and  tubes are  used for  liquids, creams,  ointments and
          powders.  

          Contract Laboratory Services
          -----------------------------
          In 1998, the Company established the contract laboratory services
          business,  which provides testing  services to analyze customers'
          injectable product  packaging.  Regulatory agencies  require drug
          companies  to  demonstrate  that  packaging  components  will not
          contaminate the  drug.  The  test data  is generated in  a format
          acceptable  for   U.S.  Food   and   Drug  Administration   (FDA)
          submissions.     The  services  offered  include  product/closure
          interaction testing,  extractables testing, moisture  analysis of
          closures,  particle  quantification/analysis,  quantification  of
          closure  surface  silicone,  and  other  custom  services.    The
          Company's laboratory complies  with applicable Good Manufacturing
          Practice standards and its laboratory will be FDA registered.

                               Research and Development
                                Drug Delivery Systems
              ---------------------------------------------------------

          In 1993,  the Company began developing  drug-delivery systems for
          bio-pharmaceuticals  and  other  drugs   that  are  difficult  to
          administer  effectively through  traditional  injectable or  oral
          routes.   Improving the therapeutic performance of these drugs in
          an economical fashion calls for sophisticated delivery solutions.




          To  advance the  Company's  efforts in  this  area, in  1994  the
          Company began acquiring interests in DanBioSyst UK Ltd. (DBS)  in
          10% annual  increments; and in March 1998, acquired the remaining
          70%  ownership interest,  making DBS  a  wholly-owned subsidiary.
          DBS is a research  company located in Nottingham,  England, which
          specializes in identifying and developing systems for delivery of
          complex drug molecules,  or to  assist in delivering  drugs to  a
          specific site  in the body.   DBS engages in research  to develop
          these unique systems and  then patents this technology.   DBS has
          patents  or  patent applications  covering  a  range of  delivery
          platforms   including  nasal,  oral,  parenteral,  pulmonary  and
          rectal/vaginal.        DBS    enters   into    agreements    with
          biopharmaceutical and other drug companies, to apply its delivery
          system technology to the customers' drug  molecule to achieve the
          desired result.  

          The   Company's  Lionville-based   resources  are   dedicated  to
          development of drug  delivery systems.  This  group's work, until
          recently,  was focused on the  Ocufit SR  system,  a silicone rod
          small  enough to  fit behind the  eyelid.   The Ocufit  SR can be
          designed  to release  a number  of different drugs  in predefined
          quantities over  time periods ranging  from two weeks  to several
          months without physical  intervention.   The Ocufit  SR is  being
          jointly developed with  Escalon Medical  Corporation, which  owns
          the  basic technology.  An Investigative New Drug Application was
          filed  with the FDA  late in 1998, and  Escalon is now conducting
          Phase  I clinical trials.  The Lionville group is also developing
          products based on DBS patented technology.   The current projects
          relate to  nasal delivery of leuprolide and  morphine and further
          development  of  the Targit   delivery  system,  a coated  starch
          capsule, designed to deliver medication to a specific site in the
          body.

          The Company had 58 employees directly engaged in these activities
          as of December 31, 1998 and total expenses were $5.3 million, net
          of revenues received, in 1998.


                                    Order Backlog
                                    --------------
          Device  product  orders  on  hand  at   December  31,  1998  were
          approximately  $90  million,   compared  with  approximately  $80
          million at  the end of 1997.  Orders on hand include those placed
          by customers for manufacture over a period of time according to a
          customer's schedule or upon confirmation by the customer.  Orders
          are generally  considered firm  when  goods are  manufactured  or
          orders  are   confirmed.    The  Company   also  has  contractual
          arrangements with a number of its customers, and products covered
          by  these contracts are included in the Company's backlog only as
          orders are received from those customers.

          West Lakewood's twelve-month backlog of  unfilled customer orders
          was  approximately $18 million at  December 31, 1998 and December
          31, 1997.  Backlog is defined by West Lakewood  as orders written




          and included in production schedules  during the next 12  months.
          Such orders generally  may be cancelled  by the customer  without
          penalty.

                                    Raw Materials
                                    --------------

          The  Company uses three basic raw materials in the manufacture of
          its device products: rubber; aluminum;  and plastic.  The Company
          has been receiving adequate supplies of raw materials to meet its
          production  needs, and  it foresees  no  significant availability
          problems in the near future.  

          The Company is pursuing a supply chain management strategy, which
          involves purchasing from integrated  suppliers that control their
          own sources  of supply.  This strategy  has reduced the number of
          raw-materials  suppliers used by the Company.  In some cases, the
          Company  will purchase  raw  materials from  a  single source  to
          assure  quality and reduce  costs.   This strategy  increases the
          risks that the Company's  supply lines may be interrupted  in the
          event  of a supplier production problem.  These risks are managed
          by selecting suppliers with  multiple manufacturing sites, rigid-
          quality control  systems,  surplus  inventory  levels  and  other
          methods  of  maintaining    supply  in  case  of interruption  in
          production. 


                                 Patents and Licenses
                                ---------------------
          The Company's device  products patents and  trademarks have  been
          useful  in establishing  the Company's  market share  and in  the
          growth of the Company's manufactured device product business  and
          may continue to be of value  in the future, especially in view of
          the  Company's  continuing  development of  its  own  proprietary
          products.   Nevertheless,  the  Company  does  not  consider  its
          current manufactured  device product business or  its earnings to
          be materially dependent upon any single patent or trademark.

          Although not material at this time, the Company believes its drug
          delivery  development  capabilities  will  play  an  increasingly
          important role  in the future.   DBS  has a growing  portfolio of
          patented  technology, which is critical to  our success because a
          significant amount  of future  income is expected  to be  derived
          from licensing this technology to customers.

                                   Major Customers
                                  -----------------
          The  Company  provides   manufactured  device  components  and/or
          contract   services   to   major   pharmaceutical   and  hospital
          supply/medical  device  companies,  many of  which  have  several
          divisions with separate purchasing responsibilities.  The Company
          also   provides  contract-packaging   and  contract-manufacturing
          services for  many of the leading  manufacturers of personal-care
          products.   The Company  distributes  its products  and  services




          primarily through  its  own sales  force but  also uses  regional
          distributors in the United States and Asia/Pacific.  The business
          units have  separate sales forces  but the Company  is increasing
          the sales  effort  of each  group to  sell all  of the  Company's
          capabilities.

          Becton Dickinson and Company ("B-D") accounted for  approximately
          12%  of the Company's 1998 consolidated net sales.  The principal
          products sold to B-D are  synthetic rubber, natural rubber, metal
          and plastic  components used  in  B-D's disposable  syringes  and
          blood  sampling  and analysis  devices.  The  Company expects  to
          continue as a major B-D supplier.

          Excluding  B-D,  the next  ten  largest  customers accounted  for
          approximately 30%  of the  Company's  consolidated net  sales  in
          1998, but no one of these customers accounted for more than 5% of
          1998 consolidated net sales.

                                     Competition
                                     ------------
          The Company  competes with several  companies, some of  which are
          larger  than  the  Company,  across  its  major  Device   Product
          Development product lines.  In addition, many companies worldwide
          compete with the Company for business related to specific product
          lines.   However, the Company  believes that it  supplies a major
          portion  of  the  U.S.  market  requirements  for  pharmaceutical
          elastomer and metal  packaging components and  has a  significant
          share of the European market for these components.  

          Because of the special  nature of these products, competition  is
          based primarily on product design and performance, although total
          cost is  becoming increasingly  more important as  pharmaceutical
          companies initiate aggressive  cost-control measures across their
          entire operations.   Competitors  often compete on  the basis  of
          price.  The Company differentiates itself from its competition as
          a "full-service"  supplier, which  is  able to  provide  pre-sale
          compatibility  studies and other services and sophisticated post-
          sale technical support on a global basis. 

          The Company competes against numerous competitors in the field of
          plastic closures for consumer products, many  of which are larger
          than the Company and command dominant market shares.  The Company
          attempts to  differentiate itself through its  expertise in high-
          speed assembly of multiple-piece closures.

          The U.S. contract-packaging and manufacturing service industry is
          highly  competitive.    For  packaging  services,  West  Lakewood
          competes with  three significant companies, only two of which are
          larger  than  it.    For  contract-manufacturing  services,  West
          Lakewood competes with four major competitors and several smaller
          regional companies; several of these competitors are larger  than
          it.  In addition, most domestic pharmaceutical companies maintain
          in-house manufacturing  and packaging  capabilities and at  times
          will offer their excess capacity  to manufacture or package other




          companies'  products on a  contract basis.   However,  most large
          pharmaceutical   and   personal    healthcare   companies    have
          traditionally  made  extensive  use  of  contract  packagers  and
          manufacturers   during   times   of  peak   demand,   during  the
          introduction of a new  product and for production of  samples and
          special product promotions.

          Many companies provide proprietary  drug delivery technologies to
          the pharmaceutical and  biotech markets.   However, unlike  West,
          the majority of these companies are focused on a  single route of
          drug administration, and very few have capabilities necessary  to
          take drug  products through all stages of the development process
          and  commercial manufacture.   The  three largest  companies, the
          market  leaders, have  multiple-delivery technologies,  but their
          strong  franchises  are   in  oral,  controlled-release  delivery
          systems.   West's drug  delivery technologies, none  of which  is
          currently  in  commercial  production,  are in  less  competitive
          segments that do not compete with the market leaders.  

                              Environmental Regulations 
                 ---------------------------------------------------
          The  Company  does not  believe that  it  will have  any material
          expenditures relating to  environmental matters other  than those
          discussed in the Note "Commitments and Contingencies" of Notes to
          Consolidated Financial Statements  of the 1998  Annual Report  to
          Shareholders, incorporated by reference herein.


                                    International
                                   ---------------

          The   Note   "Affiliated   Companies"  and   the   Note  "Segment
          Information" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the
          1998  Annual Report  to Shareholders  are incorporated  herein by
          reference.

          The  Company believes  that its  international business  does not
          involve a  substantially greater business risk  than its domestic
          business. Financial crises  in the Asia/Pacific  region and  more
          recently in our major markets in South America have resulted in a
          decline in demand  for the Company's  products in these  regions;
          however,  direct  sales  to  customers  in  these  markets   have
          historically not been significant, representing less than 10%  of
          consolidated sales.  

          The  Company's financial  condition and  results are  impacted by
          fluctuations in  exchange-rate  markets (See  Notes  "Summary  of
          Significant Accounting  Policies - Foreign  Currency Translation"
          and "Other  Income (Expense)" of Notes  to Consolidated Financial
          Statements   of  the   1998   Annual   Report  to   Shareholders,
          incorporated herein  by reference).   Hedging by  the Company  of
          these exposures is  discussed in the Note "Debt" and  in the Note
          "Financial   Instruments"  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial




          Statements   of  the   1998   Annual   Report  to   Shareholders,
          incorporated herein by reference.


          Item 2.   Properties
                    -----------
          In the Device Product Development operating segment, the  Company
          maintains  nine  manufacturing  plants  and  two  mold  and   die
          production facilities  in the  United  States, one  manufacturing
          plant in Puerto Rico,  and a total of eight  manufacturing plants
          and two  mold and die production facilities  in Germany, England,
          France, Denmark, Brazil and Singapore.  

          In the Contract Services operating segment, the Company maintains
          one facility in the United States and one facility in Puerto Rico
          to   provide  contract  manufacturing   and  packaging  services.
          Contract  Laboratory  services are  provided  from  the Company's
          Lionville, Pennsylvania facility.

          The Company's  executive offices,  U.S. research  and development
          center  and pilot  plant  are located  in  a leased  facility  at
          Lionville, Pennsylvania,  about 35 miles from  Philadelphia.  The
          Company conducts  drug delivery  research  and development  in  a
          leased  facility located  in  Nottingham, England.     All  other
          company facilities are used  for manufacturing and  distribution,
          and facilities in  Eschweiler, Germany are  also used for  device
          product development activities.  

          The production facilities of the Company are well-maintained, are
          operating  generally  on  a two-  or  three-shift  basis  and are
          adequate for the Company's present needs.

          The principal facilities in the United States and Puerto Rico are
          as follows:

          -  Approximately 839,000 square  feet of owned and 997,000 square
             feet of  leased space  in Pennsylvania,  New Jersey,  Florida,
             Nebraska, North Carolina and Puerto Rico. 

          The principal international facilities are as follows:

          -  Approximately  530,000 square feet  of owned  space and 67,700
             square feet of leased space  in Germany, England,  Denmark and
             France.  

          -  Approximately 69,000 square feet of owned space in Brazil. 

          -  Approximately 92,000 square feet of owned space in Singapore.

            Of the aforementioned currently owned facilities, approximately
          354,000 square  feet  are  subject  to mortgages  to  secure  the
          Company's real estate  mortgage notes.   See the  Note "Debt"  of
          Notes  to Consolidated  Financial Statements  of the  1998 Annual


          Report to Shareholders, which information  is incorporated herein
          by reference.

             Sales  office  facilities in  separate  locations  are  leased
          under short-term arrangements.

             The Company also holds for sale former  manufacturing facility
          space in Puerto Rico - totaling 42,000 square feet.



          Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.
                    -----------------
          None



          Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
                    ---------------------------------------------------
          None.

          Item 4 (a) Executive Officers of the Registrant
                 -----------------------------------------

          The  executive officers of the Company at  March 31, 1999 were as
          follows:
          


          1  Holds  position as corporate officer  elected by the  Board of
          Directors for one year term.


                                       PART II

          Item 5.   Market  for  Registrant's  Common  Equity  and  Related
                    Stockholder Matters
                    --------------------------------------------------

          The  Company's common  stock  is listed  on  the New  York  Stock
          Exchange  and the  high and  low prices  for  the stock  for each
          calendar quarter in 1998 and 1997 were as follows:
          

          As  of December 31, 1998,  the Company had  1,903 shareholders of
          record.   There were also  2,900 holders of  shares registered in
          nominee  names.   The  Company's  common stock  paid  a quarterly
          dividend of $.14 per share in each of the first three quarters of
          1997; $.15  per share in the  fourth quarter of 1997  and each of
          the  first three  quarters of  1998; and  $.16 per  share in  the
          fourth quarter of 1998.  


          Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
                  -----------------------
          Information  with  respect to  the  Company's  net sales,  income
          (loss) from consolidated operations, income (loss) before  change
          in accounting  method, income (loss) before  change in accounting
          method per share (basic and assuming dilution) and dividends paid
          per  share  is  incorporated  by  reference  to  the  line  items
          corresponding  to those  categories under  the  heading "Ten-Year
          Summary - Summary  of Operations"  of the 1998  Annual Report  to
          Shareholders. Information with respect  to total assets and total
          debt is incorporated by reference to the line items corresponding
          to  those categories under the  heading "Ten-Year Summary - Year-
          End   Financial  Position"   of   the  1998   Annual  Report   to
          Shareholders.

          Item 7. Management's   Discussion   and  Analysis   of  Financial
                  Condition and Results of Operations.
                  ---------------------------------------------------------
          The information  called  for  by  this Item  is  incorporated  by
          reference to the text appearing in the "Financial Review" section
          of the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.

          Item 7A.  Quantitative  and Qualitative  Disclosure about  Market
          Risk 
                   --------------------------------------------------------
          The  information  called for  by  this  Item is  incorporated  by
          reference to  the  Notes  "Financial  Instruments",  "Summary  of
          Significant  Accounting   Policies"  of  Notes   to  Consolidated
          Financial Statements of the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.


          Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
                  -------------------------------------------
          The information  called  for  by  this Item  is  incorporated  by
          reference  to  "Consolidated  Financial  Statements",  "Notes  to
          Consolidated  Financial Statements", and "Quarterly Operating and
          Per  Share  Data  (Unaudited)"  of  the  1998  Annual  Report  to
          Shareholders.


          Item 9.  Changes  in   and  Disagreements   With  Accountants   on
                   Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
                   -------------------------------------------------------

          None.


                                       PART III

          Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
                   ---------------------------------------------------
          Information called for by this Item is incorporated  by reference
          to "PROPOSAL #1: ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" and "OWNERSHIP OF COMPANY
          STOCK" in the Proxy Statement.


          Information about executive officers of the Company is set  forth
          in Item 4 (a) of this report.

          Item 11. Executive Compensation.
                   -----------------------
          Information  called for by this Item is incorporated by reference
          to  "INFORMATION   ABOUT  THE   BOARD  AND  BOARD   COMMITTEES  -
          Compensation of Directors";  "BOARD COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT
          ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION"; and  "COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE
          OFFICERS" contained in the Proxy Statement.

          Item 12. Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners and
                   Management.
                   ---------------------------------------------------
          Information  called for by this Item is incorporated by reference
          to "OWNERSHIP OF COMPANY STOCK" contained in the Proxy Statement.

          Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
                   -----------------------------------------------
          None
                                       PART IV

          Item 14. Exhibits, Financial  Statement Schedules and  Reports on
                   Form 8-K.
                   -------------------------------------------------------


          (a)  1.   The   following   report  and   consolidated  financial
                    statements,  included  in  the  1998  Annual  Report to
                    Shareholders,   have   been   incorporated  herein   by
                    reference:


                 Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
                 December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996


                 Consolidated    Statements   of   Comprehensive
                 Income for the  years ended December 31,  1998,
                 1997 and 1996 

                 Consolidated  Balance Sheets at December 31, 1998 and

                 Consolidated Statements of  Shareholders' Equity  for
                 the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                 Consolidated Statements of  Cash Flows for  the years
                 ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                 Report of Independent Accountants

          (a) 2.    Supplementary Financial Information

                 Schedules  are omitted  because they  are either  not
                 applicable, not required or  because the  information
                 required is  contained in the consolidated  financial
                 statements or notes thereto.  

          (a)  3.   See Index to Exhibits  on pages F-1, F-2,  F-3 and
                    F-4 of this Report.

          (b)    There were  no  reports  on  Form  8-K filed  by  the
                 Company in the fourth quarter of 1998.

          (c)    The  exhibits are listed in the  Index to Exhibits on
                 pages F-1, F-2, F-3 and F-4 of this Report.

          (d)    Financial  Statements  of   affiliates  are   omitted
                 because they do not meet  the tests of a  significant
                 subsidiary at the 20% level.



                                      SIGNATURES

          Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13  or 15(d)  of  the
          Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  West Pharmaceutical  Services,
          Inc. has  duly caused this report  to be signed on  its behalf by
          the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.







                                      WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC.
                                                  (Registrant)


                                      By /s/ Steven A. Ellers        
                                      --------------------------------
                                      Steven A. Ellers
                                      Senior Vice President
                                      and Chief Financial Officer  


                                      March 31, 1999                
                                      --------------------------------
                                      Date


                                                                    

   Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
   report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities
   and on the dates indicated.
   

   *  By William G. Little pursuant to a power of attorney.


                                  INDEX TO EXHIBITS
   









                                        F - 4 

