
10-K
10K96






                                            This report contains      pages
                                            including the cover page       


                                    UNITED STATES
                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                Washington, D.C. 20549

                                      FORM 10-K

                       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
                     15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 
                                              ----------------
                            Commission File Number 1-8036
                                                  ---------
                              THE WEST COMPANY, INCORPORATED                
             
                           --------------------------------
                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


                Pennsylvania                              23-1210010       
          ------------------------------------          -------------------
          (State or other jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer 
           incorporation or organization)            Identification Number)


          101 Gordon Drive, PO Box 645, Lionville,             19341-0645  
          ---------------------------------------------    ----------------
          (Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)  

          Registrant's telephone number, including area code  610-594-2900  
                                                             --------------


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

            Title of each class   Name of each exchange on which registered
          -----------------------------------------------------------------
          Common Stock, par value    New York Stock Exchange               
              $.25 per share

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                         None
                                         ----
          Indicate by check mark  whether the registrant (1) has  filed all
          reports  required to  be  filed by  Section  13 or  15(d) of  the
          Securities Exchange  Act of 1934  during the preceding  12 months
          (or for such shorter  period that the registrant was  required to
          file  such  reports), and  (2) has  been  subject to  such filing
          requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X .  No    .
                                                  ---     ---
          Indicate  by  check  mark  if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
          pursuant to Item 405  of Regulation S-K is not  contained herein,

          and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
          in definitive 

          proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
          III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    X
                                                                      ---- 

          As of March 18, 1997, the Registrant had 16,425,183 shares of its
          Common  Stock outstanding.  The market value of Common Stock held
          by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of that date was $445,533,089.

          Exhibit Index appears on pages F-1, F-2, F-3, and F-4.

          





                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                         ------------------------------------
          Documents   incorporated  by   reference:  1)  portions   of  the
          Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the Company's 1996
          fiscal  year  (the  "1996  Annual Report  to  Shareholders")  are
          incorporated by reference in Parts I  and II; and (2) portions of
          the   Registrant's   definitive  Proxy   Statement   (the  "Proxy
          Statement") are incorporated by reference in Part III.



           

                                        PART I

          Item l.   Business
                    --------

                                     The Company
                                     -----------
          The West Company, Incorporated is engaged in one industry segment
          - products and services for packaging and delivery of healthcare 
          and consumer products.  The Company's products include 
          pharmaceutical packaging components (stoppers, seals, caps, 
          containers  and dropper bulbs) and components for medical devices  
          (parts for syringes and components for blood sampling and analysis 
          devices and for intravenous administration sets) and packaging 
          components for consumer products.  The Company also provides 
          contract packaging and contract manufacturing services  for the  
          pharmaceutical and consumer products  markets in the United States 
          and Puerto Rico.

          The Company was incorporated  in 1923.  The executive  offices of
          the  Company are  located  at  101  Gordon  Drive,  PO  Box  645,
          Lionville, Pennsylvania  19341-0645, approximately  35 miles from
          Philadelphia.  The  telephone number at  the Company's  executive
          offices  is 610-594-2900.   As  used herein,  the  term "Company"
          includes  The West  Company,  Incorporated  and its  consolidated
          subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates.


               Principal Products -Pharmaceutical Packaging Components
               --------------------------------------------------------
          The Company manufactures a broad line of pharmaceutical  stoppers
          from natural  rubber  and  a  variety  of  synthetic  elastomers.
          Several hundred proprietary formulations of these substances  are
          molded  into a range of  stopper sizes used  in packaging serums,
          vaccines,  antibiotics,  anesthetics,  intravenous solutions  and
          other  drugs.    Most stopper formulations are specially  designed  
          to be compatible with drugs so that the drugs will remain effective 
          and unchanged during storage.  The Company's rubber laboratories not
          only   develop   formulations,  but   also   conduct  preliminary
          compatibility tests  on customers' new  drugs, and in  the United
          States, file  formulation  information  with  the  Food  and  Drug
          Administration to assist its customers' new drug applications.

          A broad line of  aluminum seals which securely hold  the stoppers
          on glass or  plastic containers is  manufactured by the  Company.
          Aluminum seals include closures with tamper-evident tabs or plastic
          FlipOffR buttons  which must  be removed before the  drug can  be
          withdrawn.  The  Company also makes a wide variety of seals lined 
          with its specially formulated elastomeric discs.



           

          The majority of the pharmaceutical-packaging components
          currently  manufactured  by the  Company  are  used in  packaging
          injectable drugs, including syringe parts  used by pharmaceutical
          manufacturers  to  package  their drugs  in  pre-filled unit-dose
          disposable syringes.  

          Products used in  the packaging of  non-injectable drugs  include
          rubber  dropper bulbs,  plastic contraceptive  drug packages  and
          child-resistant and tamper-evident plastic closures.  The Company
          also manufactures and markets a  range of Counter Cap   products.
          These devices  are child resistant plastic caps that advance, or
          count, everytime a bottle of oral medication is opened or closed,
          thereby promoting  compliance with  medication instructions.   In
          addition,  the Company manufactures injection blow-molded plastic
          bottles  and  containers  for  the  pharmaceutical  industry  and
          consumer products industry.

          In January 1994,  the Company acquired Senetics,  Inc., a Boulder
          Colorado  company  specializing  in  development   of  innovative
          closure  and delivery  systems for the  oral and  inhalation drug
          delivery markets.  The  purchase price of the acquisition  was $3
          million.  Additional  amounts are  due based on  license fees  or
          royalty income and/or direct  sales of the product  until January
          5, 1999.

          The Company's  German holding  company,  The West  Company  GmbH,
          acquired Schubert  Seals A/S,  a  Danish manufacturer  of  rubber
          components and metal seals servicing the European  pharmaceutical
          industry.  A  51% ownership interest was acquired in May 1994 and
          the  remaining  49% in  December 1995.    The company's  name was
          changed in 1996  to The  West Company Danmark A/S.   The  purchase
          price totaled DK 71 million ($12 million at exchange rates at the
          dates of the acquisitions). 

                 Principal Products - Components for Medical Devices
                 ----------------------------------------------------
          The Company manufactures rubber and plastic components for  empty
          disposable syringes.   Typical components include plungers,  hubs
          and  needle  covers  which  are  assembled  into  finished  empty
          disposable syringes by the Company's customers.

          Blood-sampling  system  components  manufactured by  the  Company
          include vacuum tube stoppers and needle valves.  The Company also
          makes  a number of specialized  rubber and plastic components for
          blood analyzing systems.

          Also  included  in  this  category  are Company-manufactured  and
          Company-purchased   components   assembled   into   drug-transfer
          devices.

          The Company also manufactures and sells disposable infant nursers
          and individual nurser components to infant formula manufacturers.



          

                                  Principal Products
              Packaging Components for the Consumer Products Industries
             ------------------------------------------------------------

          The  Company  manufactures  a  wide  range  of  plastic  threaded
          closures for the personal-care industry, mainly for cosmetics and  
          toiletries.  The Company offers  many different standard threaded 
          closure designs in a wide range  of sizes and colors, in addition 
          to closures designed for specific customers and specialty 
          packaging.   The Company  also manufactures custom and stock 
          plastic containers for personal-care products.

          The  Company manufactures  a  variety  of custom-designed  and/or
          proprietary plastic  closures, some of which  are tamper evident,
          for food and beverage processors.

                                  Principal Services
                    Contract Packaging and Contract Manufacturing
                  --------------------------------------------------

          In  April   1995,  the  Company   purchased  Paco  Pharmaceutical
          Services, Inc. ("Paco") for $52.4 million.  Paco, with facilities
          in Lakewood,  New Jersey  and  Canovanas, Puerto  Rico,  provides
          contract  manufacturing   and  contract  packaging   services  to
          pharmaceutical and personal-care consumer companies.

          Paco's   contract-manufacturing   services   capabilities   cover
          liquids,  creams,  ointments,  powders  and  semi-solids.   These
          manufacturing   capabilities   are  offered   to  pharmaceutical,
          personal health care and consumer products companies which supply
          the product  formula and specifications  and the majority  of the
          necessary raw  materials.  Typical products  manufactured by Paco
          are headache  and cold medications, hair  care products, lotions,
          oral  hygiene  products  and   deodorants.    These  manufactured
          products are  packaged  by  Paco in  bottles,  pouches  or  tubes
          depending on the nature of the product and customer requirements.

          Paco also  manufactures sterile ophthalmic products  for  major
          ophthalmic companies and contract manufactures metaproterenol and
          albuterol, products used for inhalation therapy.

          Paco's contract-packaging  services include the  design, assembly
          and filling  of a  broad variety of  packages, including  blister
          packages (a plastic  bubble with a foil backing), bottles, tubes,
          laminated and other flexible pouches or strip packages,  aluminum
          and plastic  liquid cup containers, paperboard specialty packages
          and innovative tamper-evident and child-resistant packages.   The
          type of  package depends  on the  requirements  of the  customer.
          Blister packaging or  bottles typically are used  for tablets and
          capsules  while aluminum  or plastic  cups, pouches,  bottles and
          tubes  are used for liquids,  creams, ointments and  powder.  The
          products  to be  inserted  in the  package  are supplied  by  the
          customer in bulk.   They are inserted  in the package of  choice,
          labeled, boxed and shipped back to the customer.



          

                                  Principal Services
                      Development of Novel Drug Delivery Systems
              ---------------------------------------------------------

          In  1993, the Company began  pursuing a strategy  to develop drug-
          delivery systems for bio-pharmaceuticals and other drugs that are 
          difficult to administer effectively through traditional intravenous  
          or oral routes.  Improving the therapeutic  performance of these
          drugs in an economical fashion calls for sophisticated  technical
          solutions.   To advance the  Company's efforts in  this area, the
          Company has acquired  30% of  DanBioSyst UK Ltd.  (DBS), with  an
          option to acquire  the remaining ownership  interests within  the
          next few years.  DBS is a research company located in Nottingham,
          England, specializing  in delivery  systems for  such drugs.   In
          partnership with biopharmaceutical and other drug companies,  DBS
          works to link its delivery system technology to improve or manage
          the  absorption rate  of hard-to-deliver  drugs  or to  assist in
          delivering these drugs to a specific site in the body.  

          The  Company also  has an  internal group  focused on  novel drug
          delivery systems.  The Company's efforts are currently focused on
          the Ocufit SR system, a cylindrical rod molded from  a variety of
          silicone elastomer polymers and small enough to fit into the fold
          between the  eye and the eyelid.   The Ocufit can  be designed to
          release a number of different drugs in predefined quantities over
          time periods  ranging from  two weeks to  several months  without
          physical intervention.   The Ocufit SR is being jointly developed
          with   Escalon  Medical   Corporation,  which   owns  the   basic
          technology.   The  Company  is  also  developing  other  delivery
          systems based on DBS patented technology. 

                                    Order Backlog
                                    --------------
          Product orders  on hand at  December 31, 1996  were approximately
          $94  million, compared with approximately $108 million at the end
          of 1995.  Orders  on hand include those  placed by customers  for
          manufacture  over a  period  of time  according  to a  customer's
          schedule  or  upon  confirmation  by the  customer.    Orders are
          generally considered  firm when goods are  manufactured or orders
          are  confirmed.   The Company  also has  contractual arrangements
          with a number  of its  customers, and products  covered by  these
          contracts are included  in the Company's  backlog only as  orders
          are received from those customers.

          Paco's twelve-month  backlog  of  unfilled  customer  orders  was
          approximately $24 million at December  31, 1996 compared with $20
          million at  December 31,  1995.   Backlog is  defined at Paco  as
          orders written and  included in production  schedules during  the
          next  12 months.   Such orders generally may  be cancelled by the
          customer without penalty.



           


                                    Raw Materials
                                    --------------
          The  Company uses three basic raw materials in the manufacture of
          its products:  rubber; aluminum; and plastic.   Approximately 50%
          of  the total rubber used  by the Company  is natural rubber from
          Sri Lanka, Cameroon,  Vietnam, and Malaysia.  Plastic  resins and
          aluminum  are  purchased as  needed  from several  sources.   The
          Company has been receiving adequate  supplies of raw materials to
          meet  its  production  needs,  and  it  foresees  no  significant
          availability problems in the near future.  However, the political
          stability  and  seasonal  weather  conditions  of countries  that
          supply  natural   rubber  may  be  significant   factors  in  the
          continuing supply of  this commodity.   Synthetic elastomers  and
          plastics  currently  purchased  by  the  Company  are  made  from
          petroleum derivatives.   A significant portion of the world supply 
          of petroleum feedstocks is concentrated in specific geographic 
          areas, and the availability and cost of these feedstocks are 
          dependent on the political stability of these areas.  Also, the  
          Company is dependent on sole sources of supply with respect to 
          certain other raw material ingredients in older product 
          formulations.  In the event the supplier discontinues production, 
          the Company may be required to stockpile these materials until 
          new formulations are qualified with customers.  

          The Company  is pursuing  a supply  chain management strategy  of
          aligning with vertically integrated  suppliers that control their
          own feed stocks.  This will result in reducing the number  of raw
          materials suppliers.   In some cases,  the Company will  purchase
          raw materials from a single source.  This strategy is expected to
          assure quality, secure supply and lower costs.  However, it could
          result  in risks to the Company's supply  lines in the event of a
          supplier  production problem.    These risks  will be  managed by
          selecting suppliers with backup plans and fail-safe mechanisms as
          part of their operating standards.

          Paco's  customers supply  the bulk  of raw  materials as  part of
          their contractual agreements.  Items that Paco purchases for  the
          accounts of customers include preformed plastic tubes and bottles
          and  other packaging materials.   Paco uses a  variety of vendors
          and is not dependent on any single source of supply.


                         Laboratory, Research and Engineering
                        -------------------------------------
          Pharmaceutical  packaging   components   must  meet   the   rigid
          specifications set by the pharmaceutical industry relating to the
          function of the package, material compatibility and freedom  from
          chemical and  physical contamination.   Rubber formulations  that
          involve  contact  with  injectable  pharmaceutical  products  are
          required to  pass shelf-life tests  extending from six  months to
          three years. New  rubber compounds  must be tested  to show  that
          they  do not  cause precipitation  in the  customer's  product or
          affect  its potency, sterility,  effectiveness, color or clarity.



          

          In  addition, in  the  United States  the  Food and  Drug  Admin-
          istration  may  review  and  inspect  certain  of  the  Company's
          facilities   for   adequacy  of   methods   and   procedures  and
          qualifications of technical personnel.

          The Company  maintains  its  own  laboratories  for  testing  raw
          materials and  finished goods  to  assure adherence  to  customer
          specifications and to safeguard the quality of its products.  The
          Company also  uses its  laboratory  facilities for  research  and
          development  of new  rubber and  thermoplastic compounds  and for
          testing and evaluating new products and materials.

          The Company maintains engineering  staffs responsible for product
          and  tooling  design   and  testing  and   for  the  design   and
          construction of  processing equipment.  In addition,  a corporate
          product research  department develops  new  packaging and  device
          concepts for identified market needs.

          Research,  development  and  engineering  expenditures   for  the
          creation  and  application  of  new  and  improved  products  and
          processes were  approximately  $11.2  million  in  1996  and  $12
          million  in  each  of  the  years  1995  and  1994,  net  of cost
          reimbursements by  customers.     Approximately 120  professional
          employees were engaged full time in such activity in 1996.

                                      Employees
                                      ----------
          As of December  31, 1996,  the Company and  its subsidiaries  had
          5,040 full-time equivalent employees.

                                 Patents and Licenses
                                ---------------------
          The patents owned by  the Company and its subsidiaries  have been
          valuable  in establishing the  Company's market share  and in the
          growth of the Company's  business and may continue to be of value
          in the  future, especially  in view  of the  Company's continuing
          development of its own proprietary products.   Nevertheless, the
          Company does not consider its current business or its earnings to
          be materially dependent upon  any single patent or patent  right.
          
          Although not material at this time, the Company believes its 
          investment in DBS and its own novel drug delivery development
          capabilities will play an increasingly important role in the future.
          DBS has a growing portfolio of patented technology, which is
          critical to its success because future income will derive from
          licensing this technology to its customers.
          

                                   Major Customers
                                  -----------------
          The    Company   serves   major   pharmaceutical   and   hospital
          supply/medical  device  companies,  many  of which  have  several
          divisions with separate purchasing responsibilities.  The Company
          also  provides  contract  packaging  and  contract  manufacturing
          services for  many of the leading  manufacturers of personal-care
          products.  The Company distributes its products primarily through
          its  own sales force but  also uses regional  distributors in the
          United States and Asia/Pacific.

          Becton Dickinson  and Company ("B-D") accounted for approximately
          11% of the Company's consolidated  net sales during the Company's



          

          last  fiscal  year.   The  principal  products  sold  to B-D  are
          components  made of  rubber,  metal  and  plastic used  in  B-D's
          disposable syringes and blood sampling and analysis devices.  B-D
          has manufactured a  portion of  its own rubber  components for  a
          number of years.  The Company expects to continue as  a major B-D
          supplier.

          Excluding  B-D,  the next  ten  largest  customers accounted  for
          approximately 25%  of the  Company's  consolidated net  sales  in
          1996, but no one of these customers accounted for more than 5% of
          1996 consolidated net sales.

                                     Competition
                                     ------------
          The Company  competes with several  companies, some of  which are
          larger   than  the  Company,  across  its  major  pharmaceutical-
          packaging component and  medical-device component product  lines.
          In addition, many  companies worldwide compete  with the  Company
          for  business  related  to  specific  product  lines.    However,
          although there are no industry statistics available, the  Company
          believes  that it  supplies  a  major  portion  of  the  domestic
          industry   requirements  for  pharmaceutical   rubber  and  metal
          packaging components, and has a significant share of the European
          market  for these components.   Because of the  special nature of
          these products, competition is based primarily on product  design
          and performance,  although total cost is  becoming more important
          as  healthcare  markets   worldwide  face  increasing  government
          controls and pressure to control overall costs.

          The  Company is one of the leading domestic producers of threaded
          plastic closures, although there are numerous competitors in  the
          field of plastics.

          In addition, some  of the Company's customers also  manufacture a
          portion of their own plastic and rubber packaging components. 

          The  contract  packaging and  manufacturing  service industry  is
          highly  competitive.   The  Company  believes  that its  contract
          packaging   services  subsidiary,   Paco,  competes   with  three
          significant companies,  only one  of which  is larger  than Paco.
          For  contract manufacturing  services,  Paco  competes with  four
          major competitors and several smaller regional companies; several
          of  these competitors  are larger  than Paco.   In  addition most
          domestic pharmaceutical companies maintain in-house manufacturing
          and packaging capabilities  and at times will  offer their excess
          capability to manufacture or package other companies' products on
          a  contract  basis.    However,  most  large  pharmaceutical  and
          personal healthcare  companies have traditionally  made extensive
          use of contract packagers and  manufacturers during times of peak
          demand,  during  the  introduction  of  a  new  product  and  for
          production of samples and special product promotions.

                   Government Regulations and Environmental Matters
                 ---------------------------------------------------



         

          The  Company  does not  believe that  it  will have  any material
          expenditures relating to  environmental matters other  than those
          discussed in the Note "Commitments and Contingencies" of Notes to
          Consolidated Financial Statements  of the 1996  Annual Report  to
          Shareholders,  incorporated by reference  herein, as contained in
          Exhibit 13.

          Paco's  contract  packaging   and  manufacturing  processes   and
          services are subject to the Good Manufacturing Practice standards
          applicable  to  the  pharmaceutical  industry.     The  Company's
          packaging and manufacturing services are subject to the  Federal,
          Food,  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Act,  the  Comprehensive  Drug  Abuse
          Prevention  and  Control  Act  of  1970  and  various  rules  and
          regulations of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the
          United States Department of Treasury, the Bureau of  Narcotics of
          the  United States  Department of  Justice, the  Drug Enforcement
          Agency and state narcotic regulatory agencies.  Paco is regularly
          subjected  to   testing  and  inspection  of   its  products  and
          facilities by representatives of various Federal agencies.

          In addition,  the Company comes  under the regulation  of various
          state and municipal  health agencies in  jurisdictions where  the
          Company has facilities. 

                                    International
                                   ---------------
          The Note "Affiliated  Companies" and the  Note "Industry  Segment
          and  Operations  by Geographic  Area"  of  Notes to  Consolidated
          Financial Statements of  the 1996 Annual  Report to  Shareholders
          are incorporated herein by reference, as contained in Exhibit 13.


          The  Company believes  that its  international business  does not
          involve a  substantially greater business risk  than its domestic
          business.

          The  Company's financial  condition and  results are  impacted by
          fluctuations in  exchange rate  markets  (See Notes  "Summary  of
          Significant Accounting Policies  - "Foreign Currency"  and "Other
          Income (Expense)" of  Notes to Consolidated Financial  Statements
          of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated herein by
          reference, as contained in  Exhibit 13).  Hedging by  the Company
          of  these exposures is  discussed in the  Note "Debt"  and in the
          Note  "Fair  Value   of  Financial  Instruments"   of  Notes   to
          Consolidated Financial Statements  of the 1996  Annual Report  to
          Shareholders, incorporated herein  by reference, as  contained in
          Exhibit 13.     

          

          Item 2.   Properties
                    -----------
          The Company  maintains twelve  manufacturing plants and  two mold
          and  die   production  facilities  in  the   United  States,  two
          manufacturing  plant  in  Puerto  Rico,  and  a  total  of  eight
          manufacturing plants and one mold  and die production facility in
          Germany, England, France, Denmark, Brazil and Singapore.  

          The Company's  executive offices,  U.S. research and  development
          center  and pilot  plant  are located  in  a leased  facility  at
          Lionville, Pennsylvania,  about 35 miles from  Philadelphia.  All
          other  Company   facilities  are  used   for  manufacturing   and
          distribution, and facilities in Eschweiler, Germany are also used
          for research and development activities.  

          The manufacturing  facilities of the Company are well-maintained,
          are operating generally  on a  two or three-shift  basis and  are
          adequate for the Company's present needs.

          The principal facilities in the United States and Puerto Rico are
          as follows:

          -  Approximately 839,000  square  feet  of  owned  and 996,000
             square  feet of  leased  space  in Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,
             Florida, Nebraska, North Carolina and Puerto Rico. 

          The principal international facilities are as follows:

          -  Approximately 481,000  square feet of  owned space and  15,000
             square feet of  leased space in  Germany, England, Denmark and
             France.  

          -  Approximately 69,000 square feet of owned space in Brazil. 

          -  Approximately 92,000 square feet of owned space in Singapore.

            Of the aforementioned currently owned facilities, approximately
          277,000  square  feet  are subject  to  mortgages  to secure  the
          Company's real estate  mortgage notes.   See the  Note "Debt"  of
          Notes  to Consolidated  Financial Statements  of the  1996 Annual
          Report to Shareholders, which  information is incorporated herein
          by reference, as contained in Exhibit 13.

             Sales office  facilities  in  separate  locations  are  leased
          under short-term arrangements.

             The Company also holds for sale former  manufacturing facility
          space in the United States - totaling 106,000 square feet; and in
          Germany and Argentina totaling 46,000 square feet.

          

          Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.
                    -----------------


             On March 30,  1992, OCAP Acquisition Corp. ("OCAP")  commenced
             an  action in  the Supreme  Court  of the  State of  New York,
             County  of  New York,  against  Paco Pharmaceutical  Services,
             Inc. ("Paco"), certain of its subsidiaries  and R. P.  Scherer
             Corporation   ("Scherer"),   Paco's  former   parent  company,
             (collectively,   the  "defendants"),   arising   out   of  the
             termination of an Asset Purchase Agreement dated  February 21,
             1992  (the   "Purchase  Agreement")   between  OCAP  and   the
             defendants providing  for the  purchase  of substantially  all
             the assets of Paco.   On May 15, 1992, OCAP served  an amended
             verified   complaint  (the   "Amended  Complaint"),  asserting
             causes of  action for  breach of  contract and  breach of  the
             implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing, arising  out
             of  defendants' March  25, 1992  termination of  the  Purchase
             Agreement,  as well  as two  additional causes of  action that
             were  subsequently  dismissed  by  order of  the  court.   The
             Amended Complaint sought  $75 million in actual damages,  $100
             million  in punitive damages, as well as  OCAP's attorney fees
             and  other   litigation  expenses,  costs  and   disbursements
             incurred  in  bringing  this  action.    Scherer   asserted  a
             counterclaim against  OCAP for breach  of contract and  breach
             of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing arising  out of
             the termination of the Purchase Agreement.  

             This matter went  to trial in late  March, 1996, and  on April
             10,  1996, at the close  of trial, the court  dismissed all of
             the plaintiff's claims  and all of defendants'  counterclaims,
             with  each side to bear its  own costs.  Plaintiff has filed
             a  notice of  appeal, and the  defendants have  filed a cross-
             appeal.  

             Scherer has agreed  to indemnify Paco against any  liabilities
             (including fees  and expenses incurred  after March 31,  1992)
             it may  have as a  result of this litigation  matter.  In  the
             opinion   of  management,   the   ultimate  outcome   of  this
             litigation  will not  have a  material adverse  effect  on the
             Company's business or financial condition.

             


          Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
                    ---------------------------------------------------
          None.

          Item 4 (a) Executive Officers of the Registrant
                 -----------------------------------

          The  executive officers of the Company at  March 31, 1997 were as
          follows:
          












          1  Holds  position as corporate officer  elected by the  Board of
          Directors for one year term.

          

                                       PART II

          Item 5.   Market  for  Registrant's  Common  Equity  and  Related
                    Stockholder Matters
                    --------------------------------------------------
          The  Company's common  stock  is listed  on  the New  York  Stock
          Exchange  and the  high and  low  prices for  the stock  for each
          calendar quarter in 1996 and 1995 were as follows:
          
          As  of December 31, 1996,  the Company had  1,172 shareholders of
          record.   There were also  2,900 holders of  shares registered in
          nominee  names.   The  Company's  Common Stock  paid  a quarterly
          dividend of $.12 per share in each of the first three quarters of
          1995; $.13  per share in the  fourth quarter of 1995  and each of
          the  first three  quarters of  1996; and  $.14 per  share in  the
          fourth quarter of 1996.  


          Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
                  -----------------------
          Information  with  respect to  the  Company's  net sales,  income
          (loss) from consolidated operations, income (loss) before  change
          in accounting  method, income (loss) before  change in accounting
          method  per share and dividends paid per share is incorporated by
          reference  to the  line items  corresponding to  those categories
          under the heading  "Ten-Year Summary - Summary  of Operations" of
          the 1996 Annual Report  to Shareholders, as contained  in Exhibit
          13.   Information with respect to  total assets and total debt is
          incorporated  by reference  to  the line  items corresponding  to
          those  categories under the heading  "Ten-Year Summary - Year End
          Financial Position" of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, as
          contained in Exhibit 13.

          Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                  and Results of Operations.
                  ---------------------------------------------------------
          The information  called  for  by  this Item  is  incorporated  by
          reference to the text appearing in the "Financial Review" section
          of the  1996  Annual  Report to  Shareholders,  as  contained  in
          Exhibit 13.

          Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
                  -------------------------------------------
          The  information  called for  by  this  Item is  incorporated  by
          reference to "Consolidated  Financial Statements", "Notes  to the
          Consolidated Financial Statements",  and "Quarterly Operating and

           

          Per  Share  Data  (Unaudited)"  of  the  1996  Annual  Report  to
          Shareholders, as contained in Exhibit 13.


          Item 9.  Changes  in   and  Disagreements   With  Accountants   on
                   Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
                   --------------------------------------------------------
          None.


                                       PART III

          Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
                   ---------------------------------------------------
          Information  called for by this Item is incorporated by reference
          to  "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" in the Proxy Statement.


          Information about  executive officers of the Company is set forth
          in Item 4 (a) of this report.

          Item 11. Executive Compensation.
                   -----------------------
          Information called for  by this Item is incorporated by reference
          to  "ELECTION OF  DIRECTORS  - BOARD OF DIRECTORS;  Compensation  
          of Directors;  Board Compensation   Committee   Report   on  
          Executive   Compensation; Compensation of Named Executive  
          Officers" contained in the Proxy Statement.

          Item 12. Security  Ownership of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners  and
                   Management.
                   ---------------------------------------------------
          Information called for  by this Item is incorporated by reference
          to "STOCK OWNERSHIP OF  CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS" and "ELECTION
          OF  DIRECTORS -  Stock  Ownership  of  Directors  and   Executive
          Officers" contained in the Proxy Statement.

          Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
                   -----------------------------------------------
          None

                                       PART IV

          Item 14. Exhibits,  Financial Statement Schedules  and Reports on
                   Form 8-K.
                   -------------------------------------------------------

         

          (a)  1.   The   following   report  and   consolidated  financial
                    statements,  included in  the  1996  Annual  Report  to
                    Shareholders,   have   been   incorporated  herein   by
                    reference, as contained in Exhibit 13:

                 Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
                 December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

                 Consolidated  Balance Sheets at December 31, 1996 and

                 Consolidated Statements of  Shareholders' Equity  for
                 the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994


                 Consolidated Statements of  Cash Flows for the  years
                 ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

                 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                 Report of Independent Accountants

          (a) 2.    Supplementary Financial Information

                 Schedules  are omitted  because they  are  either not
                 applicable, not  required or because the  information
                 required is  contained in  the consolidated financial
                 statements or notes thereto.  

          (a)  3.   See  Index to Exhibits on pages  F-1, F-2, F-3 and
                    F-4 of this Report.

          (b)    There  were  no reports  on  Form  8-K  filed  by the
                 Company in the fourth quarter of 1996.

          (c)    The exhibits are  listed in the Index to  Exhibits on
                 pages F-1, F-2, F-3 and F-4 of this Report.

          (d)    Financial  Statements  of   affiliates  are   omitted
                 because they  do not meet the tests  of a significant
                 subsidiary at the 20% level.

                                                                   

          
                                      SIGNATURES

          Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13  or 15(d)  of  the
          Securities Exchange  Act of 1934, The  West Company, Incorporated
          has duly  caused this report  to be signed  on its behalf  by the
          undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.







                                           THE WEST COMPANY, INCORPORATED
                                                     (Registrant)


                                           By /s/ John Vigna       
                                           --------------------------------
                                           John Vigna 
                                           Senior Vice President,
                                           Finance and Administration 

                                           March 31, 1997                
                                           --------------------------------
                                           Date



   
   Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
   this  report has been signed below by the following persons in the 
   capacities and on the dates indicated.
   


                            INDEX TO EXHIBITS
   

