
10-K
ANNUAL REPORT







                                                   This report contains __ pages
                                                        including the cover page


                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
                  15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                                ----------------
                         Commission File Number 0-5884
                                   ---------
                         
                         THE WEST COMPANY, INCORPORATED
                        --------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


      Pennsylvania                                             23-1210010
------------------------------------                       -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                           Identificaton Number)


101 Gordon Drive, PO Box 645, Lionville, PA                    19341-0645
---------------------------------------------                ---------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code            610-594-2900
                                                             --------------


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

  Title of each class                 Name of each exchange on which registered
-----------------------               ------------------------------------------
Common Stock, par value                      New York Stock Exchange
    $.25 per share

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None
                                      ----

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.  Yes _X_  No ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.


As of March 17, 1995, the Registrant had 16,508,400 shares of its Common Stock
outstanding. The market value of Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of that date was $416,837,100.


             Exhibit Index appears on pages F-1, F-2, F-3 and F-4.








                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                      ------------------------------------

Documents incorporated by reference: (1) portions of the Registrant's Annual
Report to Shareholders for the Company's 1994 fiscal year (the "1994 Annual
Report to Shareholders") are incorporated by reference in Parts I and II; and
(2) portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement (the "Proxy
Statement") are incorporated by reference in Part III.



PART I

Item l.           Business
                  --------

                                  The Company
                                  -----------
The West Company, Incorporated is engaged in one industry segment - the design,
development, manufacture and marketing of stoppers, closures, containers,
medical device components and assemblies made from elastomers, metal, glass and
plastic that meet the unique filling, sealing, dispensing and delivery needs of
the health care and consumer products markets. The Company also manufactures
related packaging machinery. The Company's products include pharmaceutical-
packaging components (stoppers, seals, caps, containers and dropper bulbs),
components for medical devices (parts for syringes and components for blood
sampling and analysis devices and for intravenous administration sets) and
packaging components for consumer products.

The Company was incorporated in 1923. The executive offices of the Company are
located at 101 Gordon Drive, PO Box 645, Lionville, Pennsylvania 19341-0645,
approximately 35 miles from Philadelphia. The telephone number at the Company's
executive offices is 610-594-2900. As used herein, the term "Company" includes
The West Company, Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the
context otherwise indicates.

            Principal Products -Pharmaceutical Packaging Components
            --------------------------------------------------------
The Company manufactures a broad line of pharmaceutical stoppers from natural
rubber and a variety of synthetic elastomers. Several hundred proprietary
formulations of these substances are molded into a range of stopper sizes used
in packaging serums, vaccines, antibiotics, anesthetics, intravenous solutions
and other drugs. Most formulae are specially designed to be compatible with
drugs so that the drugs will remain effective and unchanged during storage. The
Company's rubber laboratories not only develop formulations, but also conduct
preliminary compatibility tests on customers' new drugs, and in the United
States file formulation information with the Food and Drug Administration to
assist its customers' new drug applications.

A broad line of aluminum seals which securely hold the stoppers on glass or
plastic containers is manufactured by the Company. The Company also makes a wide
variety of seals lined with its specially formulated rubber discs or other
materials. Aluminum seals include closures with tamper-evident tabs or plastic
FlipOffR buttons which must be removed before the drug can be withdrawn. The
Company also designs, manufactures and sells capping machines for use with
Company-designed metal caps and seals and other packaging equipment.



The majority of pharmaceutical-packaging components currently manufactured by
the Company are used in packaging injectable drugs. Included in this category of
products are syringe parts used by pharmaceutical manufacturers to package their
drugs in pre-filled unit-dose disposable syringes.

Products used in the packaging of non-injectable drugs include rubber dropper
bulbs, plastic contraceptive drug packages and child-resistant and
tamper-evident plastic closures. The Company also manufactures and markets a
range of Counter CapR products. These devices are plastic child resistant caps
that advance, or count, every time a bottle of oral medication is opened or
closed, thereby promoting compliance with medication instructions. In addition,
the Company manufactures injection blow-molded plastic bottles and containers
for the pharmaceutical industry.


In January 1992, the Company entered into a partnership with Schott Corporation
to continue the glass vial, ampoule and cartridge manufacturing operations
formerly carried on by the Company at its Cleona, Pennsylvania site. The
partnership, Schott West Pharmaceutical Glass Company, is owned 60% by Schott
Corporation
and 40% by the Company.

In January 1994, the Company acquired Senetics, Inc., a Boulder Colorado company
specializing in the development of innovative closure and delivery systems for
the oral and inhalation drug delivery markets.

In May 1994, the Company acquired a 51% interest in Schubert Seals A/S, a Danish
manufacturer of rubber components and metal seals servicing the European
pharmaceutical industry.

              Principal Products - Components for Medical Devices
              ----------------------------------------------------
The Company manufactures rubber and plastic components for empty disposable
syringes. Typical components include plungers, hubs and needle covers which are
assembled into finished empty disposable syringes by the Company's customers.

Blood-sampling system components manufactured by the Company include vacuum tube
stoppers and needle valves. The Company also makes a number of specialized
rubber and plastic components for blood analyzing systems.

Also included in this category are Company-manufactured and Company-purchased
components assembled into drug-transfer devices.

The Company also manufactures and sells disposable infant nursers and individual
nurser components to infant formula manufacturers.



                               Principal Products
           Packaging Components for the Consumer Products Industries
       -----------------------------------------------------------------
The Company manufactures a wide range of plastic threaded closures for the
personal-care industry, mainly for such products as cosmetics and toiletries.
The Company offers many different standard threaded closure designs in a wide
range of sizes and colors, in addition to closures designed for specific
customers and specialty packaging. The Company also manufactures custom and
stock plastic containers for personal-care products.

The Company manufactures a variety of custom-designed and proprietary plastic
closures, some of which are tamper evident, for distillers and food and beverage
processors.

                                 Order Backlog
                                 --------------
Orders on hand at December 31, 1994 were approximately $99 million, compared
with approximately $90 million at the end of 1993. Orders on hand include those
placed by customers for manufacture over a period of time according to a
customer's schedule or upon confirmation by the customer. Orders are generally
considered firm when goods are manufactured or orders are confirmed. The Company
also has contractual arrangements with a number of its customers, and products
covered by these contracts are included in the Company's backlog only as orders
are received from those customers.

                                 Raw Materials
                                 --------------
The Company uses four basic raw materials in the manufacture of its products:
rubber, aluminum, plastic and glass. Approximately 25% of the total rubber used
by the Company is natural rubber, substantially all of which is imported from
Sri Lanka and Malaysia. Plastics and aluminum are purchased as needed from
several sources. The Company has been receiving adequate supplies of raw
materials to meet its production needs, and it foresees no significant
availability problems in the near future. However, the political stability and
seasonal weather conditions of countries which supply natural rubber may be
significant factors in the continuing supply of this commodity. Synthetic
elastomers and plastics currently purchased by the Company are made from
petroleum derivatives, the cost and availability of which are dependent on the
supply of petroleum feedstocks. Also, the Company is dependent on sole sources
of supply with respect to certain other raw material ingredients in older
product formulations. In the event the supplier discontinues production the
Company may be required to stockpile these materials until new formulations are
qualified with customers.

The Company is pursuing a supply chain management strategy of aligning with
vertically integrated suppliers that control their own feed stocks. This will
result in reducing the number of raw materials suppliers. In some cases, the
Company will purchase raw



materials from a single source. this strategy is expected to assure quality,
secure supply and reduce costs. However, it could result in risks to the
Company's supply lines in the event of a supplier production problem. These
risks will be managed by selecting suppliers with backup plans and fail-safe
mechanisms as part of their operating standards.

                      Laboratory, Research and Engineering
                     -------------------------------------
Pharmaceutical packaging components must meet the rigid specifications set by
the pharmaceutical industry relating to the function of the package, material
compatibility, and freedom from chemical and physical contamination. Rubber
formulations that involve contact with injectable pharmaceutical products are
required to pass shelf-life tests extending from six months to three years. New
rubber compounds must be tested to show that they do not cause precipitation in
the customer's product or affect its potency, sterility, effectiveness, color or
clarity. In addition, in the United States the Food and Drug Administration may
review and inspect certain of the Company's facilities for adequacy of methods
and procedures and qualifications of technical personnel.

The Company maintains its own laboratories for testing raw materials and
finished goods to assure adherence to customer specifications and to safeguard
the quality of its products. The Company also uses its laboratory facilities for
research and development of new rubber and thermoplastic compounds and for
testing and evaluating new products and materials.

The Company maintains engineering staffs responsible for product and tooling
design and testing and for the design and construction of processing equipment.
In addition, a corporate product research department develops new packaging and
device concepts for identified market needs.

Research, development and engineering expenditures for the creation and
application of new and improved products and processes were approximately
$12,000,000 in 1994, $11,400,000 in 1993 and $11,100,000 in 1992. Approximately
140 professional employees were engaged full time in such activity in 1994.


                                   Employees
                                   ----------
As of December 31, 1994, the Company and its subsidiaries had 3,680 full-time
employees.

                              Patents and Licenses
                             ---------------------
The patents owned by the Company have been valuable in establishing the
Company's market share and in the growth of the Company's business and may
continue to be of value in the future, especially in view of the Company's
continuing development of its own


proprietary products. Nevertheless, the Company does not consider its business
or its earnings to be materially dependent upon any single patent or patent
right.

The Company also has an agreement with Daikyo Seiko, Ltd., a Japanese company in
which the Company has a 25% ownership position, relating to the sharing and
cross-licensing of certain technology.

                                Major Customers
                               -----------------
The Company serves major pharmaceutical and hospital supply/medical device
companies, many of which have several divisions with separate purchasing
responsibilities. The Company also sells to many of the leading manufacturers of
personal-care products. The Company distributes its products primarily through
its own sales force and also through regional distributors in the United States
and Asia/Pacific.

Becton Dickinson and Company ("B-D") accounted for approximately 11% of the
Company's consolidated net sales during the Company's last fiscal year. The
principal products sold to B-D are components made of rubber, metal and plastic
used in their disposable syringes and blood sampling and analysis devices. B-D
has manufactured a portion of its own rubber components for a number of years.
The Company expects to continue as a major B-D supplier.

Excluding B-D, the next ten largest customers accounted for approximately 28% of
the Company's consolidated net sales in 1994, and no one of these customers
accounted for more than 6% of 1994 consolidated net sales.

                                  Competition
                                  ------------
The Company competes with several companies, some of which are larger than the
Company, across its major pharmaceutical packaging component and medical device
component product lines. In addition, many companies worldwide compete with the
Company for business related to specific product lines. However, although there
are no industry statistics available, the Company believes that it supplies a
major portion of the domestic industry requirements for pharmaceutical rubber
and metal packaging components, and has a significant share of the European
market for these components. Because of the special nature of these products,
competition is based primarily on product design and performance, although total
cost is becoming more important as health care markets worldwide face increasing
government controls and pressure to control overall costs.

The Company is one of the leading domestic producers of threaded plastic
closures, although there are numerous competitors in the field of plastics.



In addition, some of the Company's customers also manufacture a portion of their
own plastic, rubber and glass components.

                             Environmental Matters
                            ------------------------
The Company does not believe that it will have any material expenditures
relating to environmental matters other than those discussed in the Note
"Commitments and Contingencies" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of
the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated by reference herein.

                                 International
                                ---------------
The Note "Affiliated Companies" and the Note "Industry Segment and
Operations by Geographic Area" of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated herein by reference.

The Company believes that its international business does not involve a
substantially greater business risk than its domestic business. However,
economic and competitive factors vary in the countries in which the Company's
international subsidiaries and affiliates do business. The future growth and
performance of the Company's international subsidiaries and affiliates are
dependent on these factors and the political stability of the countries where
they do business.

The Company's financial condition and results are impacted by fluctuations in
exchange rate markets (See Notes "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies -
Foreign Currency" and "Other Income (Expense)" of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements of the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated
herein by reference). Hedging by the Company of these exposures is discussed in
the Note "Debt" and in the Note "Fair Value of Financial Instruments" of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders,
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 2.           Properties
                  -----------
The Company maintains eleven manufacturing plants and two mold and die
production facilities in the United States, including one manufacturing plant in
Puerto Rico, and a total of ten manufacturing plants and two mold and die
production facilities in Germany, England, France, Denmark, Argentina, Brazil
and Singapore.


The Company's executive offices, U.S. research and development center and pilot
plant are located in a leased facility at Lionville, Pennsylvania, about 35
miles from Philadelphia. All other Company facilities are used for manufacturing
and distribution, and facilities in Eschweiler, Germany and Boulder, Colorado
are also used for research and development activities.


The manufacturing facilities of the Company are well-maintained, are operating
generally on a two or three-shift basis and are adequate for the Company's
present needs.

The principal facilities in the United States, including Puerto Rico, are as
follows:

-     United States facilities include approximately 1,036,000 square feet of
      owned and 332,000 square feet of leased space in Pennsylvania, Florida,
      Nebraska, North Carolina and Puerto Rico.



The principal international facilities are as follows:

-     Europe facilities include approximately 346,000 square feet of owned space
      and 145,000 square feet of leased space in Germany, England, Denmark and
      France.

-     Latin America facilities include approximately 99,000 square feet of owned
      space in Argentina and Brazil.

-     Asia/Pacific facilities include approximately 92,000 square feet
      of owned space in Singapore.

  Of the aforementioned currently owned facilities, approximately 464,000 square
feet are subject to mortgages to secure the Company's real estate mortgage
notes. See the Note "Debt" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the
1994 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.


      Sales office facilities in separate locations are leased under short-term
arrangements.

      The Company also holds for sale 106,100 square feet of former
manufacturing facility space in the United States.



Item 3.           Legal Proceedings.
                  -----------------
A.    Wayne, New Jersey
      ------------------
The Company is a party to an Administrative Consent Order with the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) under which the Company is required
to submit and perform a cleanup plan for property formerly owned by the Company
in Wayne, New Jersey. The DEP has approved the Company's plan which permits a
plastic waste- disposal area to be capped and to remain in place, subject to
placing a use restriction on that portion of the property, and subject to the
DEP's further determination of the extent to which groundwater monitoring will
be required. The present owner of the property has thus far declined to provide
the use restriction and the Company has initiated legal action against him to
compel him to provide the use restriction. The DEP has not yet taken final
action with respect to any further remedial steps such as ground water
monitoring which may be required as part of the cleanup plan.

See the Note "Commitments and Contingencies" of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.



Item 4.           Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
                  ---------------------------------------------------
None.

Item 4 (a) Executive Officers of the Registrant
            -----------------------------------
The executive officers of the Company at March 28, 1995 were as follows:


1 Holds position as corporate officer elected by the Board of Directors for one
year term.
       There are no family relationships among the executive officers of the
Company.



PART II

Item 5.           Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
                  Stockholder Matters
                  --------------------------------------------------
The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
and the high and low prices for the stock for each calendar quarter
in 1994 and 1993 were as follows:



As of December 31, 1994, the Company had 1,344 shareholders of record. There
were also 2,200 holders of shares registered in nominee names. The Company's
Common Stock paid a quarterly dividend of $.10 per share in each of the first
three quarters of 1993; $.11 per share in the fourth quarter of 1993 and each of
the first three quarters of 1994; and $.12 per share in the fourth quarter of
1994.


Item 6.        Selected Financial Data.
               -----------------------
Information with respect to the Company's net sales, income (loss) from
consolidated operations, income (loss) before change in accounting method,
income (loss) before change in accounting method per share and dividends paid
per share is incorporated by reference to the line items corresponding to those
categories under the heading "Ten-Year Summary - Summary of Operations" of the
1994 Annual Report to Shareholders. Information with respect to total assets and
total debt is incorporated by reference to the line items corresponding to those
categories under the heading "Ten-Year Summary - Year End Financial Position" of
the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 7.        Management's Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition
               and Results of Operations.
               ---------------------------------------------------------
The information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to the text
appearing in the "Financial Review" section of the 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders.

Item 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
               -------------------------------------------

The information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to
"Consolidated Financial Statements", "Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements", and "Quarterly Operating and



Per Share Data (Unaudited)" of the 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders.

Subsequent Event
----------------
               On March 24, 1995, the Company announced that it had entered into
a definitive merger agreement with PACO Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. pursuant
to which the Company will acquire all of PACO's common stock at $12.25 per share
in cash. The purchase price of approximately $54 million is being funded from
cash balances and existing bank facilities.

               PACO's a provider of contract packaging and contract
manufacturing services for pharmaceutical and personal health care companies.
The following table presents selected financial information on PACO's financial
results for its fiscal year ended March 31, 1994 and for the nine months ended
December 31, 1994 and its financial position as of March 31, 1994 and December
31, 1994.






Item 9.        Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
               Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
               -----------------------------------------------------------
None.



                                    PART III

Item 10.        Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
                ---------------------------------------------------
Information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to "ELECTION OF
DIRECTORS" and "STOCK OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS and EXECUTIVE OFFICERS - Section
16(a) Reporting" in the Proxy Statement.


Information about executive officers of the Company is set forth in Item 4 (a)
of this report.

Item 11.        Executive Compensation.
                -----------------------
Information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to "EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION" and "BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES - Compensation of
Directors" contained in the Proxy Statement.

Item 12.        Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
                Management.
                ---------------------------------------------------
Information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to "STOCK
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS" and "STOCK OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" contained in the Proxy Statement.

Item 13.        Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
                -----------------------------------------------
Information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to "BOARD OF
DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES - Compensation of Directors" and "BOARD OF
DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES - Certain Transactions" in the Proxy Statement.

                                    PART IV

Item 14.        Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on
                Form 8-K.
                -------------------------------------------------------


(a)               1. The following report and consolidated financial statements,
                  included in the 1994 Annual Report to Shareholders, have been
                  incorporated herein by reference:

            Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
            December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

            Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1994 and

            Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
            years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992



            Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for years ended
            December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

            Report of Independent Accountants

(a) 2.      Supplementary Financial Information

            Schedules are omitted because they are either not applicable, not
            required or because the information required is contained in the
            consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

(a)  3.           See Index to Exhibits on pages F-1, F-2, F-3 and F-4 of
                  this Report.

(b)         There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by the Company
            in the fourth quarter of 1994.

(c)         The exhibits are listed in the Index to Exhibits on
            pages F-1, F-2, F-3 and F-4 of this Report.

(d)         Financial Statements of affiliates are omitted because
            they do not meet the tests of a significant subsidiary
            at the 20% level.





                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, The West Company, Incorporated has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.







                                        THE WEST COMPANY, INCORPORATED
                                        (Registrant)
                                        By  Raymond J. Land
                                        ---------------------------------
                                        Raymond J. Land
                                        Senior Vice President,
                                        Finance and Administration
                                        (Principal Financial Officer)

                                        March 30, 1995
                                        ---------------------------------
                                        Date




Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.













                                                 INDEX TO EXHIBITS













