10-K


a06-3954_310k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934

For
the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005

o

TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the transition period
from            to

Commission
File Number 1-8036

WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone
number, including area code:

610-594-2900

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.25
  per share

New York Stock
  Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of
the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filed. See definition of “accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicated by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

x

The aggregate market value
of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30,
2005 was approximately $897,400,000, based on the closing price as reported on
the New York Stock Exchange.

As of January 31,
2006, there were 32,001,570 shares of the Registrant’s common stock outstanding

.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Document

Parts
  Into Which Incorporated

Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
  of Shareholders to be held May 2, 2006

Parts I and III


Cautionary-Factors
That May Affect Future Results

(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995)

Our disclosure and analysis in this 2005 Form 10-K
contains some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results
based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide
forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well
as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current
expectations or forecasts of future events—they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts. In particular, these include statements concerning
future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated
products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal
proceedings and financial results. We have tried, wherever possible, to
identify such statements by using words such as “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,”
“believe,” “plan,” “anticipate” and other words and terms of similar meaning in
connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance or
condition.

We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement
will be realized. If known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or if
underlying assumptions are inaccurate, actual results could differ materially
from past results and those expressed or implied in any forward-looking
statement. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking
statements. We cannot predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, but
factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from expected
and historical results include the following: sales demand; timing and
commercial success of customers’ products incorporating our products and
services, including specifically, the Exubera® Inhalation Powder insulin
device; our ability to pass raw material cost increases on to customers through
price increases; maintaining or improving production efficiencies and overhead
absorption; competition from other providers; the successful integration of
acquired businesses; average profitability, or mix, of products sold in a
reporting period; financial performance of unconsolidated affiliates; strength
of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies, particularly the Euro, U.K.
Pound, Danish Krone, Japanese Yen and Singapore Dollar; raw material price
escalation, particularly petroleum-based raw materials and energy costs; and
availability and pricing of materials that may be affected by vendor concerns
with exposure to product-related liability.

We undertake no obligation to publicly update
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise.

All trademarks and
registered trademarks used in this report are property of West Pharmaceutical
Services, Inc., unless noted otherwise.


PART
I

ITEM 1.

DESCRIPTION
OF BUSINESS.

General

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. (which may be
referred to as

West

, the

Company

,

we

,

us

or

our

) is a manufacturer of components and systems for
injectable drug delivery and plastic packaging and delivery system components
for the healthcare, personal care and consumer products markets. Our products
include stoppers and seals for vials, and components used in syringes,
intravenous delivery systems and blood collection and diagnostic systems. Our
customers include the world’s leading pharmaceutical, biotechnology, generic
drug and medical-device producers. The Company was incorporated under the laws
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on July 27, 1923.

In recent years, we have gone through a series of
acquisitions and dispositions designed to focus our business on our core
competencies in pharmaceutical packaging, delivery components and devices and
related services.

On December 24, 2004, we agreed to sell our drug
delivery systems business for $7.1 million in cash, a right to receive
additional payments contingent upon the acquiring entity’s sales of products
and an approximately 14% ownership interest in the acquiring entity. That
business consisted of developing proprietary chemical-based delivery methods,
which when combined with the active drug compound, would improve the drug’s
delivery profile.

We also sold our clinical services business unit in August 2005
for $5.7 million in cash and a receivable for an additional $0.5 million. For
financial reporting purposes, the operating results of the drug delivery
business and clinical services unit have been classified as discontinued
operations for all periods presented.

On February 11, 2005, we acquired Monarch
Analytical Laboratories, Inc. (Monarch), which provides analytical testing
services for glass, plastics and elastomer packaging, for $2.0 million in cash
and $1.8 million in West common stock. Additionally, the Company assumed,
and subsequently paid, debt in the amount of $1.9 million.

We completed the acquisition of the business assets of
The Tech Group, Inc. (TGI) on May 20, 2005, for $140.5 million in
cash. TGI manufactures plastic components and assemblies for the
pharmaceutical, medical device, consumer products and personal care markets.

On August 2, 2005, we acquired a 90% interest in
Medimop Medical Projects, Ltd. and its U.S. affiliate (Medimop), for $36.4
million in cash and approximately $3.6 million worth of our common stock. Medimop
develops disposable medical devices for the mixing, transfer, reconstitution
and administration of injectable drugs.

Our goal is for the
acquired businesses to continue to have the resources and operating focus to
deliver on their existing commitments to customers while expanding future
opportunities through the integration of those businesses with our global
presence and customer base. In addition to integrating the acquired businesses,
we will place increasing emphasis on developing innovative drug delivery
solutions, achieving production and operational efficiencies and implementing
strategies to mitigate the impact of rising material and fuel costs, including
those related to recent hurricane-related damage to oil refining capacity in
the Gulf Coast region of the United States.

West Website

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website
(www.westpharma.com) under the

Investor—SEC filings


captions as soon as
reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish
it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Throughout this Form 10-K, we “incorporate
by reference” certain information from parts of other documents filed with the
SEC and from our Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
(2006 Proxy Statement), which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days
following the end of our 2005 fiscal year. The SEC allows us to disclose
important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such
information. Our 2006 Proxy Statement will be available on our website
(www.westpharma.com) on or about March 31, 2006 under the captions

Investor—SEC filings

.

Information about our
corporate governance, including our Corporate Governance Principles and Code of
Business Conduct, as well as information about our Directors, Board Committees
and Committee charters, and instructions on how to contact the Board, is
available on our website (www.westpharma.com) under the

Investor—Corporate
Governance

captions. We will provide any of the foregoing
information without charge upon written request to John R. Gailey III, Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.,
101 Gordon Drive, Lionville, Pennsylvania 19341. Information relating to the
West Pharmaceutical Services Dividend Reinvestment Plan is available on our
website (www.westpharma.com) under the

Investors—DRIP

captions.

Business Segments

We have two reportable segments: Pharmaceutical
Systems and Tech Group. The recently acquired Medimop and Monarch businesses
are reported as part of the Pharmaceutical Systems segment. Our Tech Group
segment consists of the acquired businesses of TGI and our previously existing
Device Group operations.

Comparative segment revenues and related financial
information for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are presented in a table contained in Note
8 to our consolidated financial statements,

Segment Information

,
and the section headed

Results of Operations

in the

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

section of this 2005 Form 10-K.

Results of the now-sold
drug delivery and clinical services units are contained in Note 3 to our
consolidated financial statements,

Discontinued Operations

,
included within this 2005 Form 10-K.

Pharmaceutical Systems Segment

Our Pharmaceutical Systems segment designs,
manufactures and distributes a variety of elastomer and metal components used
in parenteral drug delivery for the branded pharmaceutical, generic and
biopharmaceutical industries and is the world’s largest, independent
manufacturer of pharmaceutical packaging components (stoppers, plungers and
seals). The primary components we manufacture are subject to regulatory
oversight within our customers’ manufacturing facilities. We have manufacturing
facilities in North and South America, Europe and Asia, with affiliated
companies in Mexico and Japan. See Item 2,

Properties

,

for additional information on our manufacturing sites.

Our Pharmaceutical Systems segment consists of two
operating segments—the Americas and Europe/Asia—which are aggregated for
reporting purposes because they have similar economic characteristics, as well
as similar products, manufacturing processes, customer objectives, distribution
procedures and regulatory requirements. The Pharmaceutical Systems segment
includes the results of Medimop, a company acquired in August 2005 that
specializes in reconstitution, mixing and transfer technologies for injectable
drugs in vials, bags, ampoules and syringes.

Our Pharmaceutical
Systems business is composed of the following product lines:

·

Elastomeric stoppers and
discs, which serve as primary closures for pharmaceutical vials.


·

Secondary closures for
pharmaceutical vials, called Flip-Off® aluminum seals, consisting of an
aluminum seal and removable plastic button, and in some applications, just an
aluminum seal.

·

Elastomeric syringe
plungers, stoppers for blood collection systems and flashback bulbs and sleeve
stoppers for intravenous dispensing systems.

·

Elastomer and co-molded
elastomer/plastic components for infusion (IV) sets.

·

Dropper bulbs—including
tamper-evident droppers—for applications such as eye, ear and nasal drops,
diagnostic products and dispensing systems.

·

Needle shields and tip caps to fit most standard prefilled syringes and
combination seals for dental cartridges and pens.

·

Baby bottle nipple and
pacifier bulbs from a variety of elastomeric formulations.

Our elastomeric components are offered in a variety of
standard and customer-specific configurations and formulations. These
components are available with advanced coatings and barrier films that enhance
their performance. These include

FluroTec®

components
and products using a

Teflon®

-based
film and

B2-

Coating. (Teflon® is a
registered trademark of E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company). The

FluroTec®

process involves applying a fluoropolymer film to
rubber stoppers and plungers to prevent the migration of rubber constituents into
the drug formulation and to prevent the absorption of drug constituents into
the rubber stopper resulting in additional protection of the shelf life of
packaged drugs. Our

Teflon®

-coated closures have included a
flourinated ethylene-propylene film applied to their surface to improve
compatibility between the closure and the drug.

B2-

Coating
technology applies a coating to the surface of rubber stoppers and plungers to
improve surface lubricity and reduce friction on the packaging components as
they pass through drug manufacturers’ filling lines leading to significant
improvements to the manufacturers’ production process without the use of
silicon oil. Silicon oil is commonly used to improve handling of elastomer
components but can have negative residual effects on drug products that come
into contact with silicon-lubricated components.

In addition to the coating technologies, we offer a
post-manufacturing process called Westar® RS (ready to sterilize), a
documented and fully validated procedure for washing and siliconizing stoppers
and syringe components to remove biological materials and endotoxins prior to
sterilization. The Westar® process increases the overall efficiency of
injectable drug production by centralizing processing and eliminating steps otherwise
required in each of our customers’ manufacturing processes. Westar® RU (ready
to use), currently in development, will provide components that are
pre-sterilized and ready for direct introduction into our customers’ aseptic
filling suites.

Our Flip-Off® secondary closures are tamper-evident
sterilizable seals, consisting of a metal overseal and a molded plastic cap
that is removed in order to permit access to the drug-vial contents. These are
sold in a wide range of sizes and color combinations to meet customers’ needs
for product identification and differentiation. In 2004, we introduced seals
with a smooth-top surface for printing or embossing cautionary statements,
usage or dosage instructions, or manufacturer or product names. In 2005, we
introduced anti-counterfeiting technologies that include the use of
spectroscopic inks for covert product protection—allowing customers to
incorporate price codes or product lot numbers visible only under ultra-violet
lights.

The latest seal technology, known as West Spectra™,
currently in development with two manufacturers, incorporates a radio-frequency
identification chip within the molded cap. The chip can include product
information and manufacturer information that is readable and easy to update,
enabling product tracking throughout the entire supply chain.

Many injectable drug products, including the majority
of recently introduced biotechnology products, are produced as freeze-dried
powders in order to preserve product efficacy during shipment and storage.


In addition to employing
specialized packaging components that we manufacture, these products must be
reconstituted, typically by diluting the powder with sterile water or other
diluent at the point of use. We began offering a product to aid in
reconstitution with our Clip’n’Ject® product, an in-licensed, proprietary,
single-use drug reconstitution system that is currently in use on a product for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer,
manufactured and marketed by Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Our
acquisition of Medimop expanded our product offerings in this area. Medimop
designs, develops and manufactures transfer, mixing and administration systems
for injectable pharmaceuticals. All Medimop products are 510K-approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). In addition, many Medimop
products are protected by patents.

As an adjunct to our
Pharmaceutical Systems products, we offer contract analytical laboratory
services for testing and evaluating primary drug packaging components and their
compatibility with the contained drug formulation specializing in extractables
and leachables testing for customers on a contract basis. Monarch Laboratories
specializes in plastic and glass materials testing. Prior to acquiring Monarch,
our analytical laboratories focused primarily on elastomer materials. The two
operations have been combined to form West Monarch Analytical Laboratories. The
integrated laboratories provide us and our customers with in-depth knowledge
and analysis of the interaction and compatibility of drug products with
elastomer, glass and plastic packaging components. Our analytical laboratories
also provide specialized testing for drug delivery systems and container
closure components.

Tech Group Segment

We created the Tech Group segment following our
acquisition of TGI. Our Tech Group segment is composed of our previously
existing Device Group and the TGI businesses. Through this segment, we conduct
manufacturing operations in the U.S., Mexico, Puerto Rico and Ireland. Our Tech
Group segment offers custom contract-manufacturing services that require
precision plastic injection-molding and assembly.

This
segment also offers expertise in product design, including in-house mold design
and construction, a quick-response center for developmental and prototype
tooling and high-speed automated assembly solutions. Technologies employed in
the manufacture of many of our Tech Group products include multi-material
molding, in-mold labeling, spin-and ultrasonic-welding and automated
multi-component assembly processes.

In the medical, pharmaceutical, diagnostic and healthcare markets, products
and projects include design and manufacturing of unique components for
surgical, ophthalmic, diagnostic and drug delivery systems, such as contact
lens storage kits, pill dispensers, safety needle syringes, disposable blood
collection systems and components and systems associated with drug inhalation
devices. We are one of two contract-manufacturers, and the only U.S.-based
contract-manufacturer, of pulmonary drug delivery devices for the inhalable
insulin product, Exubera® Inhalation Powder. This product, which is licensed by
Pfizer Inc. and was developed by our customer, Nektar, is expected to be introduced
during 2006.

In the consumer
products and personal care markets, Tech Group products include the following:

·

Child-resistant and
tamper-evident closures and dispensers for personal care products.

·

Spout-Pak

®
components used to seal beverage containers (Spout-Pak® is a registered
trademark of International Paper).

·

Multi-piece components for
consumer technology products.

·

Unique pens and marking
systems.

·

Small-scale fan/motor
assemblies.

·

Laundry and home-care system components.


Research
and Development Activities

We maintain our own research-scale production
facilities and laboratories for development of new products and offer contract
engineering design and development services to assist customers with new
product development.

Our quality control, regulatory and laboratory testing
capabilities also are used to ensure compliance with applicable manufacturing
and regulatory standards for primary and secondary pharmaceutical packaging
components. Our engineering departments are responsible for product and tooling
design and testing, and for the design and construction of processing equipment.
In addition, a corporate-based product development department develops new
packaging and device concepts.

In 2005, we employed 64 professionals in these activities.
We spent $6.3 million in 2005, $5.2 million in 2004 and $4.6 million in 2003 on
development and engineering for the Pharmaceutical Systems reporting segment. The
Tech Group segment incurred research and development expenses of $1.6 million
in 2005, $1.6 million in 2004 and $1.7 million in 2003.

In 2006 and beyond, we plan to significantly increase
spending to identify and introduce innovative new products and services. These
offerings will relate directly to customers and markets we now serve, using the
combined capabilities and customer access that exist in our divisions, partners
and recently acquired businesses. Resources will be focused on intellectual
property, technology acquisition, market research, internal and external
developmental resources, early-stage manufacturing capacity and sales and
marketing of these innovative products. We expect these investments to begin
driving high-value growth of proprietary products starting in the next three to
seven years.

Commercial development of
our new products and services for medical and pharmaceutical applications
commonly requires several years. New products that we develop may require
separate approval as medical devices, and products that are intended to be used
in packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical products will be subject to both
customer acceptance of our products and regulatory approval of the customer’s
products.

International

We have significant operations outside the United
States. They are managed through the same business segments as our U.S.
operations—Pharmaceutical Systems and Tech Group. Sales outside of the U.S.
account for approximately 51% of consolidated net sales.

For a geographic breakdown of sales, see the table in
Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements,

Segment Information

,
and Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements,

Affiliated
Companies

.

Although the general business process is similar to
the domestic business, international operations are exposed to additional risks
inherent in carrying on business in other countries. These risks include
currency fluctuations, multiple tax jurisdictions and—particularly in Latin and
South America and the Middle East—political and social issues that could
destabilize local markets and affect the demand for our products.

Depending on the direction of change relative to the
U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported
dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. In 2005, sales were
favorably impacted by foreign exchange, as foreign currency movements relative
to the U.S. dollar increased our reported sales in many countries. See the
discussion under the captions

Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies—Foreign Currency Translation

in Note 1 to our
consolidated financial statements in this 2005 Form 10-K. Also see
Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements,

Other
Expense (Income)

, included within this 2005 Form 10-K.


We attempt to minimize
some of our exposure to these exchange rate fluctuations through the use of
forward exchange contracts. This activity is generally discussed in Note 1
under the captions

Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies—Financial Instruments

and in Note 17,

Financial Instruments

, to our consolidated financial
statements in this 2005 Form 10-K.

Marketing

Our Pharmaceutical Systems customers include
practically every major branded pharmaceutical, generic and biopharmaceutical
company in the world. Pharmaceutical systems components and other products are
sold to major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and hospital supply/medical device
companies, which incorporate them into their products for distribution to the
ultimate end-user.

With extensive experience in contract-manufacturing,
our Tech Group segment partners with many of the largest medical device and
pharmaceutical companies

worldwide, as well as with large customers
in the personal care and food-and-beverage industries. Tech Group components
generally are incorporated into our customers’ manufacturing lines for further
processing or assembly.

Our products and services are distributed primarily
through our own sales force and distribution network, with limited use of
contract sales agents and regional distributors.

Becton, Dickinson and
Company (BD) is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 11% of our
2005 consolidated net sales. Excluding BD, the next ten largest customers
accounted for approximately 31% of our consolidated net sales in 2005, but not
one of these customers accounted for more than 5% of 2005 consolidated net
sales. The three largest customers in the Tech Group segment accounted for
approximately 21% of the 2005 net sales for that segment.

Intellectual Property Rights

Patents and other proprietary rights are important to
our business. We own or license numerous patents and have patent applications
pending in the United States and in foreign countries that relate to various
aspects of our products. Key valued-added and proprietary products and
processes are licensed from our Japanese partner, Daikyo Seiko Ltd. Our patents
and other proprietary rights have been useful in establishing our market share
and in the growth of our business, and are expected to continue to be of value
in the future, as we continue to emphasize development of proprietary products.
Although of importance in the aggregate, we do not consider our business to be
materially dependent on any individual patent.

We also rely heavily on
trade secrets, manufacturing know-how and continuing technological innovations,
as well as in-licensing opportunities, to maintain and further develop our
competitive position, particularly in the area of formulation development and
tooling design.

Raw Materials

We use three basic raw materials in the manufacture of
our products: elastomers, aluminum and plastic. Elastomers include both natural
and synthetic materials. We have access to adequate supplies of these raw
materials to meet our production needs through agreements with suppliers, and
therefore foresee no significant availability problems in the near future.

We utilize a supply-chain
management strategy in our reporting segments, which involves purchasing from
integrated suppliers that control their own sources of supply. This strategy
has reduced the number of our raw material suppliers. In most cases, we
purchase raw materials from a single source to assure quality and reduce costs.
Due to regulatory control over our production processes, and the cost and time
involved in qualifying suppliers, we rely on single-source suppliers for many
critical raw materials. This strategy increases the risk that our supply lines
may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production problem.


These
risks are managed by selecting suppliers with multiple manufacturing sites,
rigid quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and other methods of
maintaining supply in case of interruption in production.

Seasonality

Although our
Pharmaceutical Systems business is not inherently seasonal, third-quarter sales
and operating profit typically are lower compared to other quarters due
primarily to plant shutdowns in Europe

.

Working Capital

We are required to carry
significant amounts of inventory to meet customer requirements. Other
agreements also require us to purchase inventory in bulk orders, which
increases inventory levels but decreases the risk of supply interruption. Levels
of inventory are also influenced by the seasonal patterns discussed above. For
a more detailed discussion of working capital, please see the discussion in

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

under the caption

Financial Condition,
Liquidity and Capital Resource

s.

Order Backlog

At December 31, 2005,
our order backlog was $182.5 million, of which $181.8 million is expected to be
filled during fiscal year 2006. The order backlog was $152.7 million at the end
of 2004. This increase was primarily due to business acquisitions during 2005
as well as blanket orders placed by certain customers for the full year and
strengthening demand for key products. Order backlog includes firm orders
placed by customers for manufacture over a period of time according to their
schedule or upon confirmation by the customer. We also have contractual
arrangements with a number of our customers, and products covered by these
contracts are included in our backlog only as orders are received.

Competition

We compete with several companies, including some
larger than West, across our major Pharmaceutical Systems product lines. In
addition, many companies worldwide compete with us for business related to
specific product lines. However, we believe that we supply a major portion of
the U.S. market requirements for pharmaceutical elastomer and metal packaging
components and also have a significant share of the European market for these
components.

Because of the special nature of our Pharmaceutical
Systems packaging components and our longstanding participation in the market,
competition in that segment is based primarily on product design and
performance, although total cost is becoming increasingly important as
pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost-control programs across
their entire operations. Our competitors often compete on the basis of price. We
differentiate ourselves from our competition as a “full-service value-added”
global supplier that can provide pre-sale formula and engineering development,
product compatibility studies, regulatory expertise and related services, as
well as post-sale technical support and reliable, multi-site manufacturing.

Our Tech Group business is
in very competitive markets for both healthcare and consumer products. The
competition varies from smaller regional companies to large global molders that
command significant market shares. There are extreme cost pressures and many of
our customers look off-shore to reduce cost. We differentiate ourselves by
leveraging our global capability and by employing new technologies such as
high-speed automated assembly, insert molding, multi-shot molding and expertise
with multiple-piece closure systems. Because of the more demanding regulatory
requirements in the medical-device component area, there are a smaller number
of other competitors, mostly large-scale companies. We


compete
for this market on the basis of our reputation for quality and reliability in
engineering and project management, diverse contract-manufacturing capabilities
and knowledge of and experience in complying with FDA requirements.

Employees

As of December 31,
2005, we employed approximately 5,570 people in our operations throughout the
world.

ITEM 1A.

RISK
FACTORS.

Our sales and profitability depend to a
large extent on the sale of drug products delivered by injection. If the
products developed by our customers in the future use another delivery system,
our sales and profitability could suffer.

Our business depends to a substantial
extent on customers’ continued sales and development of products that are
delivered by injection. Our customers also develop products that use other
delivery means, including oral and trans-mucosal. If our customers fail to
continue to sell, develop and deploy new injectable products or we are unable
to develop new products that assist in the delivery of drugs by alternative
methods, our sales and profitability may suffer.

If we are unable to provide comparative
value advantages, timely fulfillment of customer orders, or resist pricing
pressure, we will have to reduce our prices, which may negatively impact our
profit margins.

We compete with several companies across
our major product lines. Because of the special nature of these products,
competition is based primarily on product design and performance, although
total cost is becoming increasingly important as pharmaceutical companies
continue with aggressive cost control programs across their entire operations.
Competitors often compete on the basis of price. We differentiate ourselves
from our competition as a “full-service value-added” supplier that is able to
provide pre-sale compatibility studies and other services and sophisticated
post-sale technical support on a global basis. However, we face continued
pricing pressure from our customers and competitors. If we are unable to resist
or to offset the effects of continued pricing pressure through our value-added
services, improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, or if we
have to reduce our prices, our sales and profitability may suffer.

We have significant indebtedness and debt service payments which could
negatively impact our liquidity.

We owe substantial debts and have to
commit significant cash flow to debt service requirements. The level of our
indebtedness, among other things, could:

·

make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary
future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service
requirements or other purposes;

·

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to
changes in, our business; and

·

make our financial results and share value more
vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business.

Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to reduce our total
indebtedness depends on the results of our product development efforts, our
future operating performance, our ability to generate cash flow from the sale
of our products and on general economic, financial, competitive, legislative,
regulatory and other factors affecting our operations. Many of these factors
are beyond our control and our future operating performance could be adversely
affected by some or all of these factors.


If we incur new indebtedness in the
future, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Whether we are able
to make required payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to satisfy any
other future debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance
and our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing.

We may experience difficulties integrating
the recently acquired operations of TGI and Medimop and we may incur costs
relating to acquisitions that are not anticipated.

Our success in integrating the newly acquired TGI and Medimop businesses
will depend upon our ability to retain key personnel, avoid diversion of
management’s attention from operational matters, integrate general and
administrative services and key information processing systems and, where
necessary, re-qualify on customer programs. Integration of the acquired
operations may take longer, or be more costly or disruptive to our business,
than originally anticipated.

The sellers of these businesses have
agreed to indemnify us against certain liabilities connected with the business
that may arise in the future. Because these indemnities are limited in scope
and time, we may incur liabilities that are not reimbursable under the
indemnities.

We are subject to regulation by
governments around the world, and if these regulations are not complied with,
existing and future operations may be curtailed, and could be subject to
liability.

The design, development, manufacturing, marketing and labeling of certain
of our products and our customers’ products that incorporate our products are
subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, Europe
and other countries, including the FDA and the European Medicines Agency. The
regulatory process can result in required modification or withdrawal of
existing products and a substantial delay in the introduction of new products.
Also, it is possible that regulatory approval may not be obtained for a new
product. In addition, our analytical laboratory performs certain contract
services for drug manufacturers and is subject to the FDA’s current good
manufacturing practices regulations. We must also register as a contract
laboratory with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. The
Drug Enforcement Administration has licensed our contract analytical
laboratories to handle and store controlled substances.

Failure to comply with applicable
regulatory requirements can result in actions that could adversely affect our
business and financial performance.

Our business may be adversely affected by changes in the regulation of drug
products and devices.

An effect of the governmental regulation
of our customers’ drug products, devices, and manufacturing processes is that
compliance with regulations makes it costly and time consuming for customers to
substitute or replace components and devices produced by one supplier with
those from another. In general terms, regulation of our customers’ products
that incorporate our components and devices has increased over time. However,
if the applicable regulations were to be modified in a way that reduced the
cost and time involved for customers to substitute one supplier’s components or
devices for those made by another, it is likely that the competitive pressure
on us would increase and adversely affect our sales and profitability.

Our business may be adversely affected by
risks typically encountered in international operations and fluctuations in
currency exchange rates.

We conduct business in most of the major pharmaceutical markets in the
world. Sales outside the U.S. account for approximately 51% of consolidated net
sales. Although the general business process is similar to the domestic
business, international operations are exposed to additional risks, including
the following: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; transportation delays
and interruptions; political and economic


instability and disruptions, especially in
Latin and South America and Israel; the imposition of duties and tariffs;
import and export controls; the risks of divergent business expectations or
cultural incompatibility inherent in establishing and maintaining operations in
foreign countries; difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national
operations; limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies;
and potentially adverse tax consequences.

Any of these events could have an adverse
effect on our international operations in the future by reducing the demand for
our products, decreasing the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise
have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations. In addition, we may not be able to operate in compliance with
foreign laws and regulations, or comply with applicable customs, currency
exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or
regulations to which we may be subject, in the event that these laws or
regulations change.

Raw material prices have a significant
impact on our profitability. If raw material prices increase, and we cannot
pass those price increases on to our customers, our profitability and financial
condition may suffer.

We use three basic categories of raw
materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers (which includes
synthetic and natural material), aluminum and plastic. If we are unable to pass
along increased raw material prices to our customers, our profitability, and
thus our financial condition, may be adversely affected. The cost of these raw
materials has a significant impact on our profitability. The prices of many of
these raw materials are cyclical and volatile. For example, the prices of
certain commodities, particularly petroleum-based raw materials, have rapidly
increased in the recent past, increasing the cost of synthetic elastomers and
plastic. Supply and demand factors, which are beyond our control, generally
affect the price of our raw materials. While we generally attempt to pass along
increased raw material prices to our customers in the form of price increases,
historically there has been a time delay between increased raw material prices
and our ability to increase the prices of our products. Additionally, we may
not be able to increase the prices of our products due to pricing pressure and
other factors.

Disruptions in the supply of key raw
materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, could
adversely impact our operations.

We utilize a supply chain management strategy in our reporting segments,
which involves purchasing from integrated suppliers that control their own
sources of supply. This strategy has reduced the number of raw material
suppliers used by us. In most cases, we purchase raw materials from a single
source to assure quality and reduce costs. Due to regulatory control over our
production processes, and the cost and time involved in qualifying suppliers,
we rely on single source suppliers for many critical raw materials. This
strategy increases the risks that our supply lines may be interrupted in the
event of a supplier production problem. These risks are managed, where
possible, by selecting suppliers with multiple manufacturing sites, rigid
quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and other methods of
maintaining supply in the case of interruption in production.

However, should one of our suppliers be unable to supply materials needed
for our products or should our strategies for managing these risks be
unsuccessful, we may be unable to complete the process of qualifying new
replacement materials for some programs to be qualified in time to meet future
production needs.

Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any
of our key raw materials, difficulty completing qualification of new sources of
supply, implementing use of replacement materials or new sources of supply
could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial
condition or cash flows.


A loss of key personnel or highly skilled employees could disrupt our
operations.

Our executive officers are critical to the
management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in
large part, on our ability to retain these officers and other capable
management personnel. With the exception of our Chief Executive Officer, in
general, we do not enter into employment agreements with our executive
officers. We have entered into severance agreements with several of our
officers that allow those officers to terminate their employment under
particular circumstances, such as a change of control affecting our company.
Although we believe that we will be able to attract and retain talented
personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, our inability to do
so could disrupt the operations of the unit affected or our overall operations.
In addition, because of the complex nature of many of our products and
programs, we are generally dependent on an educated and highly skilled
engineering staff and workforce. Our operations could be disrupted by a
shortage of available skilled employees.

ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS.

As of the filing of this
annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from
the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES.

Our corporate headquarters are located in a leased
building at 101 Gordon Drive, Lionville, Pennsylvania, about 35 miles west of
Philadelphia. This building also houses one of our contract analytical
laboratory facilities, corporate product development, and our North American
sales and marketing, administrative support and customer service functions.

In the United States, we have Pharmaceutical Systems
manufacturing operations in owned facilities in Kearney, Nebraska; Kinston,
North Carolina; St. Petersburg and Clearwater, Florida; and Lititz and Jersey
Shore, Pennsylvania. International manufacturing operations are located in
owned facilities in St. Austell, England; Horsens, Denmark; Le Nouvion, France;
Eschweiler and Stolberg, Germany; Kovin, Serbia; Jurong, Singapore; and São
Paulo, Brazil. All of these facilities are used for manufacturing and
distribution, and facilities in Eschweiler, Germany, and Clearwater, Florida,
are also used for development activities for Pharmaceutical Systems products.
We also own a contract analytical laboratory facility in Maumee, Ohio.

In the Tech Group segment, we have manufacturing
operations in owned facilities in Williamsport, Pennsylvania; and Cayey, Puerto
Rico and leased facilities in Montgomery, Pennsylvania; El Salto, Mexico;
Dublin, Ireland; Scottsdale, Phoenix and Tempe, Arizona; Grand Rapids,
Michigan; and Frankfort, Indiana.

Mold-and-die tool shops are housed in owned space in
Erie, Pennsylvania and leased space in Bodmin, England; Upper Darby,
Pennsylvania; Dublin, Ireland; and El Salto, Mexico. Sales office facilities in
separate locations are leased under short-term arrangements.

Our manufacturing
production facilities are well maintained and are operating generally on a two-
or three-shift basis. An expansion of our Le Nouvion facility was completed in
2003, an expansion of our rubber plant in Eschweiler, Germany was finished in
2004 and our metals facility expansion in Stolberg, Germany was completed
during 2005. Other facilities are being expanded to meet increased customer
demand.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS.

On February 2, 2006, we settled a lawsuit filed
in connection with the January 2003 explosion and related fire at our
Kinston, N.C. plant. Our monetary contribution was limited to the balance of
our


deductibles under
applicable insurance policies, all of which has been previously recorded in our
financial statements. We continue to be a party, but not a defendant, in a
lawsuit brought by injured workers against a number of third-party suppliers to
the Kinston plant. We believe exposure in that case is limited to amounts we
and our workers’ compensation insurance carrier would otherwise be entitled to
receive by way of subrogation from the plaintiffs.

By letter dated September 27,
2005, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico notified us that we are potentially
responsible for damages to natural resources, including groundwater and soils,
resulting from alleged releases of hazardous substances at our former facility
at an industrial park in Vega Alta, Puerto Rico. The notice stated that Puerto
Rico, assisted by a private attorney, intends to bring suit within 60 days
against the Company and other potentially responsible parties (PRPs) pursuant
to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of
1980, as amended (“CERCLA”) and other applicable laws. Other PRPs that were
industrial park tenants include Caribe GE International Controls Corp.,
together with alleged successors General Electric Company and NBC-Rainbow
Holdings, Inc., Unisys, Harmon Automotive, Inc., and Motorola
Electronica de Puerto Rico, Inc. All parties have executed a series of
tolling agreements to continue discussions before litigation, the latest
version of which expires on April 15, 2006, unless extended. If the
litigation is pursued, however, we intend to vigorously defend such litigation.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The
executive officers of the company are set forth in this table.

Information concerning Dr. Morel
is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading

Election of Directors

in our 2006 Proxy Statement.

Joseph E. Abbott

Mr. Abbott joined us
in 1997 as Director of Internal Audit. He was promoted to Corporate Controller
in 2000 and elected a Vice President in 2002.

Michael A. Anderson

Mr. Anderson joined
us in 1992 as Director of Taxes. He held several positions in finance and
business development before being elected Vice President and Treasurer in June 2001.


Steven A. Ellers

Mr. Ellers joined us
in 1983. He has held numerous positions in operations before being elected
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in March 1998. In June 2000,
he was elected Executive Vice President and in June 2002 was elected
President, Pharmaceutical Systems Division. He was elected President and Chief
Operating Officer in June 2005.

William J. Federici

Mr. Federici joined
us in August 2003. He was previously National Industry Director for
Pharmaceuticals of KPMG LLP (accounting firm) from June 2002 until August 2003,
and prior thereto, an audit partner with Arthur Andersen, LLP.

John R. Gailey III

Mr. Gailey joined us
in 1991 as Corporate Counsel and Secretary. He was elected General Counsel in
1994 and Vice President in 1995.

Robert S. Hargesheimer

Mr. Hargesheimer
joined us in 1992. He served in numerous operational and general managerial
roles before being elected President of the Device Group in April 2003. He
was elected President, Tech Group in October 2005.

Robert J. Keating

Mr. Keating joined us
in 1997. He served in country general management and regional sales and
marketing-management positions before being elected President, Europe and Asia
Pacific, Pharmaceutical Systems Division in April 2002.

Richard D. Luzzi

Mr. Luzzi joined us
in June 2002. Prior to his service at West, he served as Vice President
Human Resources of GS Industries, a steel manufacturer.

Donald A. McMillan

Mr. McMillan joined us in May 1984. He
served in numerous operations, sales and sales-management and marketing
positions prior to being elected President, North America, Pharmaceutical
Systems Division in October 2005.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The high and low prices
for the stock for each calendar quarter in 2005 and 2004 and full year 2005 and
2004 were as follows:

First Quarter

Second Quarter

Third Quarter

Fourth Quarter

Year

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low


27.08

23.25

28.89

22.90

29.99

25.72

29.69

18.58

29.99

18.58


19.00

16.38

21.65

18.40

21.67

18.30

25.49

20.36

25.49

16.38

As of January 31,
2006, we had 1,613 shareholders of record. There were also 2,633 holders of
shares registered in nominee names. Our common stock paid a quarterly dividend
of $.105 per share in each of the first three quarters of 2004; $.11 per share
in the fourth quarter of 2004 and each of the first three quarters of 2005; and
$.12 per share in the fourth quarter of 2005.

Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities

The
following table shows information with respect to purchases of our common stock
made during the three months ended December 31, 2005 by us or any of our “affiliated
purchasers” as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange
Act:

Period

Total number of

shares purchased(1)

Average price

paid per share

Total number of shares

purchased as part of  a

publicly announced

plan or programs

Maximum number of

shares that may yet be

purchased under the plan

or program

October 1,
  2005 – October 31, 2005


$

25.49

—

—

November 1, 2005 – November 30, 2005


24.33

—

—

December 1, 2005 – December 31, 2005


24.99

—

—

Total


$

24.80

—

—

(1)

Includes
975 shares purchased on behalf of employees enrolled in the Non-Qualified
Deferred Compensation Plan for Designated Officers (Amended and Restated
Effective January 1, 2004). Under the plan, Company matching contributions
are delivered to the plan’s investment administrator, who upon receipt of the
contributions, purchases shares in the open market and credits the shares to
individual plan accounts.


ITEM 6.

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA.

FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY

West
Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Performance measurements represent indicators commonly
used in the financial community. They are not measures of financial performance
under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).

(a)

Based
on average common shares outstanding.

(b)

Based on
average shares, assuming dilution.

(c)

Net
sales minus cost of goods and services sold, including applicable depreciation
and amortization, divided by net sales.

(d)

Operating
profit divided by net sales.

(e)

Operating
profit multiplied by one minus the effective tax rate divided by average total
invested capital. The return on invested capital calculation for 2003 excludes
the $17.3 million insurance gain recorded in operating profit.

(f)

Operating
cash flow less capital expenditures and dividends paid. Corporate cash flow is
a non-GAAP measure used by management to assess liquidity and it is a component
used to determine performance under our management incentive program. Non-GAAP
financial measures are intended to explain or aid in the use of, not as a
substitute for, the related GAAP financial measures.


Factors affecting
the comparability of the information reflected in the selected financial data:

·

2005 operations include the
activity of acquisitions from the date of purchase. See Note 2,

Acquisitions

,  within
this Form 10-K for further information. 2005 income from continuing
operations also includes incremental income tax expense of $1.5 million
associated with the repatriation of foreign sourced income under the American
Jobs Creation Act of 2004, a reduction in an estimate for restructuring which
increased income from continuing operations by $1.3 million and an increase in
stock-based compensation costs due to the adoption of FAS 123R of $2.4 million,
net of tax.

·

2004 income from continuing
operations includes incremental manufacturing costs of $7.9 million (net of
tax) in connection with the interim production processes that were put in place
following the Kinston accident, along with Kinston related legal expenses of
$1.2 million (net of tax), restructuring charges related to the closure of the
U.K. manufacturing plant of $1.0 million, an affiliate real estate gain of $0.6
million and $2.1 million of favorable tax adjustments resulting from a change
in French tax law extending the life of net operating loss carryforwards, the
use of U.S. foreign tax credits that were previously expected to expire
unutilized and the favorable resolution of several prior year tax issues.

·

2003 income from continuing
operations includes a net gain from an insurance settlement of $12.1 million
(net of tax) and includes asset impairment and post-employment benefit charges
of $7.5 million (including a related tax charge).

·

2002 income from continuing operations
includes a net restructuring charge of $7.4 million (net of tax), tax benefits
of $2.4 million resulting from a change in tax law, a $0.8 million charge
related to the restructuring of one of our affiliates and a foreign currency
exchange gain of $0.8 million (net of tax).

·

2001 includes a net
restructuring charge that reduced income from continuing operations by $1.3 million
(net of tax).


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Management’s discussion
and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes.

COMPANY OVERVIEW

We are a global pharmaceutical technology company that
applies proprietary materials science, formulation research and manufacturing
innovation to the quality, therapeutic value, development speed and rapid
market availability of pharmaceuticals, biologics, vaccines and consumer
products. We have manufacturing locations in North and South America, Europe
and Asia, with partners in Mexico and Japan. We have two reportable segments: “Pharmaceutical
Systems” and “Tech Group”.

Our Pharmaceutical Systems segment focuses on primary
packaging components and systems for injectable drug delivery, including
stoppers and seals for vials, and closures and disposable components used in
syringe, intravenous and blood collection systems. The Pharmaceutical Systems segment
has two operating segments that sell a similar range of products, manufactured
from elastomer and metal components, in their respective geographic regions:
the Americas and Europe/Asia. The Pharmaceutical Systems segment includes the
results of Medimop, a company acquired in August 2005 that specializes in
reconstitution, mixing and fluid transfer technologies for injectable drugs in
vials, bags, ampoules and syringes.

The Tech Group segment was created following the May 2005
acquisition of substantially all of the American and European assets of The
Tech Group, Inc. (“TGI”). This segment is composed of our previously
existing Device Group operating unit and the acquired TGI business. As a
combined unit, our Tech Group segment

is a global leader in plastic injection
molding, offering custom contract-manufacturing solutions for healthcare and
consumer industries. Products and projects include the design and
manufacture of unique components and assemblies for surgical, ophthalmic,
diagnostic and drug delivery systems, such as contact lens storage kits, pill
dispensers, safety needle and pen-based injection systems, diagnostic sample
containers and components and systems associated with drug inhalation devices.
The segment also provides molds and assembles consumer product components,
including printer cartridges, resealable closures for juice and dairy products,
writing pens and markers, and so-called smart cards, which incorporate
electronic read/write capability into plastic cards.

Our global customer base includes the world’s leading
manufacturers of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices. While growth
in those markets may fluctuate due to a range of factors, we anticipate
relatively steady growth due to the nature of the products and services we
provide. We recently introduced value-added products such as advanced coating
technologies (FluroTec® and B2-Coating); components processed in
accordance with the latest regulatory requirements; and post manufacturing
options (Westar®) that eliminate time and capital-intense operations from
customers’ manufacturing processes. Our service offerings are bolstered through
our 2005 acquisition of Monarch Labs, and our engineering and design programs
are enhanced through the 2005 acquisition of Medimop and Tech. In addition, we
will see growth through investment in innovation programs. For example, we will
expand our reconstitution systems portfolio, introduce refinements in our
prefilled syringe systems and launch a line of vial seals with enhanced product
security features.

Within the overall
pharmaceutical market there are many potential opportunities and challenges
that influence our decisions and bear on our future financial performance.

·

We
believe that demographic and economic factors are generally favorable for our
business. These include an aging population that is expected to consume more
healthcare products and services, the


increased occurrence and
treatment of chronic disorders, including diabetes, and increased spending on
healthcare in the world’s developing economies.

·

We
continue to benefit from favorable trends in pharmaceutical product development.
Most notably, a majority of new drug product approvals in the U.S. and Europe
have been of biotechnology products. Because of their biological content, these
products are not typically formulated as oral drugs and must be delivered
parenterally (literally, around or avoiding the digestive tract), most commonly
by injection or IV infusion, frequently as a lyophilized (freeze-dried) powder
that requires reconstitution at the point of use. We are the world’s leading
manufacturer of elastomer components and seals used in packaging liquid and
lyophilized drugs and expect to continue to benefit from the growing use of
parenterally administered drugs.

·

Many
of these biologic products have high per dose therapeutic and economic value
but are more sensitive to degradation during filling and storage. As a result,
our customers generally employ components that provide the highest level of
protection for their products, including our Teflon® and FluroTec® coated
products and printed and embossed seals.

·

Prefilled
syringes continue to gain market share for injectable drug products. This
product presentation is typically more convenient for pharmacists, patients and
clinicians because it can reduce or eliminate the use of glass ampoules, the
number of steps (and associated error) and needle exposures involved in the
drug preparation process and permits the drug maker to provide more precise
doses.

·

In
January 2006, the FDA and the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”) granted
marketing approval for Exubera® Inhalation Powder, a pulmonary insulin product
developed by our customer Nektar, that will be marketed by Pfizer, Inc. Our
Tech Group is one of two contract-manufacturers for Nektar’s inhalation
delivery device. Although the product faces significant challenges in gaining
acceptance among physicians and diabetic patients, current expectations for the
product are positive.

Particular lines of business that have benefited or
will benefit from these trends include: prefilled syringe components and coated
closures, lyophilization stoppers and reconstitution aids, which are used in
the packaging and point-of-use reconstitution of freeze-dried drug products;
seals incorporating anti-counterfeiting features and printed product use
labeling; contract-manufacturing and assembly of systems for inhaled insulin,
multiple-use injection pens and auto-injectors; and laminated materials used in
lined seals, particularly for the packaging of insulin. Some of these products
and methods replace traditional vials and single-use syringes, and will
negatively affect sales of our products for those uses (standard vial stoppers
and syringe plungers).

Other factors that
may affect our competitiveness and profitability include:

·

Lower
cost competitors, for both our customers’ drug products that incorporate our
components and for our components, may increase price-driven competition for
our products. These include generic versions of drugs and packaging components
sourced from lower-cost economies, including China and India.

·

Recent
increases in energy and petroleum-based material costs,

·

New
technologies incorporating oral, trans-dermal or nasal technologies are
emerging that compete with traditional injectable drug delivery methods.

In order to sustain cost competitiveness, we are:
pursuing a lean manufacturing program that was initiated in 2005, which is
focused on reducing our total cost of doing business; increasing our production
capacity in lower-cost locations; and evaluating the opportunities to expand
our production capabilities by acquiring or constructing an additional facility
in Asia. In order to recoup higher raw material costs, we


increased prices on
non-contract sales effective January 1, 2006 and have the ability under
most of our contracts to increase prices at least annually. Contract price
escalators vary and can include terms that reference either specific commodity
prices or general price-level increases. We believe that the combined effects
of cost savings and price increases will neutralize the impact of recent and
expected material cost increases.

The 2005 acquisition of TGI is intended to combine our
industry and drug product and materials expertise with TGI’s engineering, project
management, molding and assembly capabilities in order to participate in the
growing demand for components and devices involved in other routes of drug
delivery. The 2005 acquisition of Medimop Medical Projects, Ltd. provides us
with a number of new products and with new product development expertise
focused on the need for safe, reliable and convenient drug reconstitution and
fluid transfer at the point of use, which we are well positioned to market to
customers employing our lyophilization products. We continue to evaluate
opportunities to develop or acquire products, manufacturing and service
capabilities, and expand our geographic reach in order to enhance our ability
to meet the developing needs of our pharmaceutical, diagnostic, medical device
and consumer products customers.

Our key financial performance indicators include sales
and operating income growth, earnings per share, corporate cash flow (operating
cash flow, less capital expenditures and dividends paid) and return on invested
capital. Sales for 2005 were 29.2% above 2004 levels, with the impact of
acquisitions and foreign exchange translation contributing 19.7 and 0.5
percentage points of the increase, respectively. Operating profit in 2005 was
50% higher than in 2004. Earnings from continuing operations in 2005 were $1.39
per diluted share compared to $1.09 per diluted share in 2004. Corporate cash
flow in 2005 was $17.4 million, an increase of $6.6 million over that
achieved during 2004 despite higher interest costs connected with 2005
acquisition activity. Return on invested capital for 2005 was over 9%. In
addition, West’s non-financial performance indicators including on-time
delivery, product discrepancy resolution and compliance tests all indicated
high levels of performance and customer satisfaction.

Management expects full year 2006 revenues under US
GAAP to be between $810 and $830 million, which would represent approximately
16% to 19% growth over 2005 revenues; ten percentage points of this growth
reflects the timing of the 2005 acquisitions as US GAAP includes revenues for
businesses acquired during the year only from the date of acquisition.
Management’s 2006 revenue estimates assume an average exchange rate of 1.22 U.S
dollars per Euro, resulting in a decrease of approximately one percentage point
in the comparison of projected 2006 to 2005 revenues. Excluding the timing
effect of acquisitions and anticipated foreign currency exchange rate changes,
we expect revenue growth to be between 7% and 10%. Management expects that 2006
full year earnings will be between $1.60 and $1.70 per diluted share.

As a result of the 2005 acquisition activity, our debt
level has increased to $281.0 million at December 31, 2005 with a debt to
total capitalization ratio of 45.4% compared to 34.8% at December 31, 2004.
In February 2006, we amended our revolving credit facility to a maximum
capacity of $250 million for a term expiring in 2011 and refinanced our $100
million private placement notes as discussed in Note 22 to our consolidated
financial statements,

Subsequent Events—Senior
Notes

. The refinancing activities have allowed us to fix the
interest rates on the majority of our debt at favorable levels which will
result in lower interest costs in future periods. We anticipate that the net
cash flow generated from operations, including those of our acquired
businesses, will allow us to reduce the debt to total capital ratio by
approximately two percentage points by the end of 2006.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of our operating results for the three years ended December 31,
2005, and our financial position as of December 31, 2005, should be read
in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements
appearing elsewhere in this report. The operating results of our former
clinical service unit and drug delivery research business are reported in
discontinued operations for all periods presented. Our financial statements include
the results of the acquired businesses for periods subsequent to their
acquisition date. For the purpose of aiding the comparison of our year-to-year
results, reference is made in management’s discussion and analysis to results
excluding the impact of acquisitions and the effects of changes in foreign
exchange rates. Those re-measured period results are not in conformity with
United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and are “non-GAAP
financial measures.” The non-GAAP financial measures are intended to explain or
aid in the use of, not as a substitute for, the related GAAP financial
measures.

NET SALES

The
following table summarizes net sales by reportable segment and product group:

Consolidated 2005 net sales increased 29.2% over sales
reported in 2004. Sales in the TGI, Medimop and Monarch businesses are included
in 2005 results for periods subsequent to their acquisition date and
represented 19.7 percentage points of the 2005 sales increase versus the prior
year. Favorable foreign exchange rate translation variances contributed 0.5
percentage points of the 2005 sales increase. Excluding the impact of
acquisitions and foreign exchange variances, 2005 net sales increased 9.0% over
2004 sales.

In the Pharmaceutical Systems segment, 2005 net sales
were 11.9% above 2004 levels. Acquired businesses contributed $7.7 million of
sales to 2005 results. 2005 foreign exchange translation variances were $2.8
million favorable to the prior year. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and
foreign exchange, 2005 net sales in the Pharmaceutical Systems segment were
$46.8 million, or 9.7%, above those achieved in 2004. Sales in international
markets were 16.3% (15.3% excluding exchange effects) higher than 2004 levels
driven by strong demand for pharmaceutical packaging components used in
pre-filled syringe systems for the delivery of our customers’ insulin products
for diabetes, cancer treatments, vaccines and dental applications. In the United
States, net sales excluding acquired businesses were 2.4% over 2004 levels. Our
2005 sales growth in the United States was moderated by the impact of planned
formulation changes in specialty coated stoppers used in serum and lyophilized
pharmaceutical packaging products. Our customers increased their inventory
levels of these products during 2004 in order to ensure adequate supplies for
2005 pending approval of the formulation changes. This resulted in an $8.2
million decrease in


2005 net sales, as our
customers worked down their inventory levels during the year. Now that the
formulation changes have been approved and accepted by our customers, we
anticipate a recovery of this business during 2006. In the United States, sales
of other pharmaceutical packaging products including Flip-off® seals and
pre-filled syringe components, disposable medical components used in
intravenous fitments and other syringe components, and demand for tooling and
laboratory services more than offset the impact of the formulation change. Our
Westar® line of elastomeric components that have been processed and packaged
for direct entry into our customers’ sterilization units continues to benefit
from growing customer acceptance with worldwide sales growth of 13% over the
prior year.

In our Tech Group segment, 2005 net sales were $170.1
million, with the acquired TGI business accounting for $98.9 million of segment
sales (consisting of healthcare devices $53.7 million, consumer products $22.3
million and tooling projects $22.9 million). The acquired business’s emphasis
on high quality custom-injected plastic molding for the pharmaceutical and
medical device markets has resulted in strong sales of component parts for
surgical devices, insulin pens and contact lens casting cups. In 2005, the Tech
Group segment recorded $3.5 million of net sales to Nektar Inc. for validation
and other testing, in support of a pulmonary delivery device for Exubera®
Inhalation Powder, an insulin product approved by the FDA and EMA in January 2006
for the treatment of diabetes. Excluding the results of the acquired business,
our previously existing plastic molding operations yielded net sales of $71.2
million (consisting of healthcare devices of $22.2 million, including $8.3
million to the Pharmaceutical Systems segment; consumer products of $41.6
million; and tooling and design services of $7.4 million) and were 4.7% above
2004 levels. Sales of consumer products increased by 16.5%, led by increased
demand for custom plastic parts used in orange juice containers. The growth in
the consumer business was partially offset by declines in healthcare device,
tooling and other revenues related to the 2004 closure of our U.K. medical
device facility.

Consolidated 2004 net
sales increased 12% over sales reported in 2003. Approximately 5% of the sales
increase resulted from the strengthening of the Euro and other currencies
against the U.S. dollar in foreign currency exchange markets. Sales in the
United States were almost 10% above prior year levels, while sales in
international markets increased by 14% over 2003, 9% of which was due to
foreign currency translation. In the Pharmaceutical Systems segment, sales were
$46.7 million above 2003 results, with favorable foreign exchange rates
contributing $22.5 million of the increase. Sales of specialty coated serum and
lyophilized stoppers accounted for $14.2 million of the increase with much of
the demand attributed to customers increasing inventory levels prior to
formulation changes in the coating process. The Pharmaceutical Systems segment
also benefited from a $4.8 million increase in sales of components used in the
packaging of an ulcer treatment drug, and increases in personal care products
including baby-nurser nipples produced in Brazil. The 2004 sales increase in
the laboratory and other services category is largely attributed to increased
tooling and engineering design service revenue on product development projects.
In the Tech Group segment, which in 2004 consisted only of our previously
existing plastic device unit, 2004 revenue increases were led by strong sales
of consumer packaging components, principally related to fresh juice packaging,
and related low margin customer tooling revenues, which more than offset a
decline in 2004 healthcare device sales connected to the closure of our plastic
device manufacturing facility in the United Kingdom.

GROSS PROFIT

Consolidated gross profit
improved to $192.6 million in 2005, a $36.7 million increase over 2004 results.
The acquired businesses contributed $15 million of the increase in gross
profit, principally within the Tech Group segment. The Pharmaceutical Systems
segment accounted for the remaining gross profit increase, generated by higher
sales volumes in Europe and improved operating efficiencies in North America
resulting from the resumption of normal molding operations at our re-built
Kinston, North Carolina facility. Our consolidated gross margin was 27.5% in
2005 and 28.8% in 2004. The impact of the


acquired
businesses on our consolidated gross margin in 2005 was a reduction of 2.4
percentage points reflecting the increase in lower margin revenues within the
acquired TGI business. Gross margins in the Pharmaceutical Systems segment
improved by 1.1 percentage points over the prior year as many of the interim
production costs incurred during the 2004 construction and validation of the
new facility were not incurred during 2005. The decreased interim production
costs were partially offset by higher depreciation, plant overhead and utility
costs at the new plant. Sales price increases helped to offset higher raw
material, energy and labor costs but produced no net improvement in gross
margin. Overall product mix variances in 2005 were negligible as the decline in
higher margin coated product sales within the Pharmaceutical systems segment
were offset by increased sales of pre-filled syringe systems and
Westar®-processed products with similar margins. Tech Group segment gross
margins include the impact of tooling revenues which carry gross margins
averaging three percent. Excluding tooling, Tech Group segment gross margins on
healthcare and consumer products average approximately 16% of net sales.

Gross
Profit and Gross Margin by Segment:

In 2004 our consolidated
gross margin declined by 2.9 percentage points to 28.8% versus 31.7% in 2003.
The majority of the decrease in the gross margin within our Pharmaceutical
Systems segment was associated with the costs incurred in implementing interim
production strategies following the January 2003 explosion at our
production facility in Kinston, North Carolina. During 2003, these costs
totaled $9.8 million, but were completely offset by business interruption
insurance reimbursements. We reached a settlement agreement with our insurer at
the end of 2003, and as a result of the agreement, no further insurance
coverage was available for costs incurred in subsequent periods. In 2004,
similar costs totaling $11.6 million were incurred resulting in a 2.4
percentage point decline in Pharmaceutical Systems segment gross margins and a
2.1 percentage point decrease in consolidated gross margin. During 2004, we
completed the reconstruction of molding operations at a new facility in Kinston
and by the fourth quarter of 2004 the majority of the costs associated with the
interim production plans had ceased. Tech Group segment gross margins were
relatively consistent over the three year period, with most of the 2004
improvement over 2003 reflecting the favorable impact of the closure of a U.K.
production facility.


SELLING,
GENERAL and ADMINSTRATIVE COSTS

Consolidated
selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses were $120.3 million
in 2005 compared to $105.2 million in 2004. SG&A costs within the acquired
business units accounted for $9.8 million of the increase. The following table
reports selling, general and administrative costs by reportable segment
including corporate and unallocated costs for the three-year period ended December 31,
2005:

Pharmaceutical Systems segment SG&A costs
increased by $8.1 million over 2004 levels. SG&A costs within the acquired
Medimop and Monarch Labs businesses accounted for $1.8 million of the increase.
Higher compensation costs of $4.2 million associated with annual salary
increases and sales incentive programs, increased consulting costs of $1.5
million for information systems projects, ‘lean’ manufacturing programs and
marketing studies and unfavorable foreign exchange variances of $0.6 million
accounted for the remainder of the 2005 increase in Pharmaceutical Systems
segment SG&A costs over 2004. Pharmaceutical Systems SG&A in 2004 was
$6.3 million higher than in 2003 due to $3.0 million of foreign exchange rate
variances, $2.2 million in compensation cost increases and $1.1 million of
consulting costs associated with business development and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance
activities.

2005 Tech Group segment SG&A costs increased by
$7.8 million over 2004 with the acquired business accounting for $8.0 million
of the variance, offset by a small decline in consulting costs within the
previously existing plastic device unit. In 2004, Tech Group segment SG&A
costs increased by $0.8 million compared to 2003 principally due to increased
staffing of sales and marketing functions.

General corporate costs include executive officer
costs, Board of Director’s compensation, legal, compliance, finance and
communication expenses. In 2005, these costs decreased by $2.2 million from
2004 levels primarily as a result of a $1.4 million decrease in stock
price-indexed Board of Director’s compensation plans and a $0.8 million
decrease in legal fees connected with the 2003 Kinston explosion and related
fire. In 2004, general corporate costs exceeded 2003 levels by $3.3 million
primarily due to $1.7 million in legal costs associated with finalizing
regulatory investigations and responding to plaintiffs in lawsuits filed in
connection with Kinston accident-related matters. Other 2004 versus 2003
general corporate cost increases included a $1.0 million increase in
stock-based Board of Director’s compensation fees and a $0.6 million increase
in other professional service fees consisting principally of increased legal
and patent costs.

Compensation costs for performance vesting restricted
share awards to senior management (“PVR share awards”) under the 2004
Stock-Based Compensation Plan were $3.7 million and $5.1 million in 2005 and
2004, respectively. The $1.4 million decline in costs associated with the PVR
share plan principally reflects the expense connected with an initial 2004
performance award which vested entirely upon 2004


results rather than the
two and three year performance periods associated with subsequent awards.
Please refer to Note 19,

Stock Option and Award
Plans

, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included within Item 8 of this report for additional details on the PVR share
award program.

Effective January 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard 123 “Share-Based Payment—Revised 2004” (“SFAS 123(R)”)
using the modified prospective transition method which requires that
stock-based employee compensation costs be measured at fair value and recorded
as an expense over the requisite service period. Additionally, compensation
costs for unvested stock options and awards that are outstanding at January 1,
2005, will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service
period based on the grant-date fair value of those options and awards as
previously calculated under the pro-forma disclosures under SFAS 123(R). Prior
to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), our stock option plans did not result in expense
recognition under the intrinsic value method for stock-based compensation
prescribed in Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees,” and related interpretations. The $2.7 million
charge recorded in selling, general and administrative costs in 2005 consists
of $1.9 million for stock option programs and $0.8 million associated with our
Employee Stock Purchase plan which allows employees to purchase West shares at
85% of the market price at the beginning or end of a six-month offering period
(“a look-back option”). An additional $1.0 million of Employee Stock Purchase
plan costs associated with manufacturing employees was recorded in cost of
goods and services sold within the Pharmaceutical Systems segment. Total
compensation expense related to the adoption of FAS 123(R) accounted for
$0.08 per diluted share during 2005. In early 2006, the Employee Stock Purchase
plan was modified, eliminating the “look-back option”, requiring employees to
contribute to the plan through payroll deductions only and establishing
quarterly offering periods. If the fair value based method prescribed by SFAS
123(R) had been applied to earlier periods, our results would have
included additional pre-tax stock compensation costs for stock options and the
employee stock purchase plan of $1.8 million and $2.3 million for the years
2004 and 2003, respectively.

In 2005, U.S. pension plan expenses remained
approximately even with 2004 levels, as the recovery of equity markets during
2003 increased the value of pension plan assets resulting in higher investment
income in subsequent periods. In 2006, we anticipate that U.S. pension expenses
will increase to approximately $9.0 million due to higher benefit obligation
liabilities generated by changes in actuarial mortality assumptions and the
decrease in the discount rate (5.65% at December 31, 2005 versus 5.75% at December 31,
2004), used to measure plan liabilities.


INSURANCE SETTLEMENT

On January 29,
2003, our Kinston, N.C. plant suffered an explosion and related fire that
resulted in six deaths, a number of injured personnel and substantial damage to
the building, machinery and equipment and raw material inventories. Our
property and business interruption coverage with our principal insurer provided
for a maximum insurance recovery of $66 million. We reached an agreement with
our insurer that the total losses for business interruption, insured
incremental costs and property replacement would exceed the maximum recoverable
amount, resulting in the final settlement of the insurance claim for the full
$66 million reimbursement. The final accounting for the insurance settlement
and related costs is presented below:

RESTRUCTURING CHARGES

In connection with the closure of a plastic device
manufacturing plant in the United Kingdom, we have recorded a favorable
restructuring-related adjustment of $1.3 million in 2005, following
restructuring charges of $1.0 million and $7.0 million in 2004 and 2003
respectively.

The 2003 decision to close
the U.K. plant followed a decision by a marketing and distribution partner of
our customer to terminate its involvement with the principal product produced
by the facility. The initial $7.0 million charge recorded in 2003 included an
impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value and the
expected fair value of the equipment at this site, asset retirement obligations
at the leased facilities and a provision for statutory post-employment benefit
costs deemed probable of being paid. During 2004, we transferred the remaining
customers of the plant to other West facilities, ceased all production
activities at the U.K. operation and recorded a $1.0 million restructuring
charge for the excess of future lease costs over expected sub-lease rental
income, as well as additional severance expense and repair costs necessary to
return the leased facility to its original condition. In 2005 we reached final
settlement of all remaining lease obligations resulting in reduction of
previously estimated cost accruals of $1.3 million.

OTHER EXPENSE (INCOME)

Other
Expense (Income) was $1.4 million, $1.5 million and $0.6 million for years
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.


2005 results include a
$0.5 million impairment of an investment in a company that had been developing
genomics analysis technology following that company’s unsuccessful efforts in
finding a commercial sponsor.

OPERATING PROFIT

Operating
profit (loss) by reportable segment, corporate and other unallocated costs were
as follows:

The businesses acquired
during 2005 contributed $5.2 million (Pharmaceutical Systems $1.7 million and
Tech Group $3.5 million) of the $24.0 million consolidated operating profit
increase over 2004. The remaining 2005 to 2004 operating profit improvement in
the Pharmaceutical Systems segment of $13.2 million was principally the
result of increased sales volumes in Europe and lower production costs in the
United States following the resumption of normal production activities at our
Kinston facility. The comparison of 2004 Pharmaceutical Systems operating
profit to 2003 is affected by a $9.8 million insurance reimbursement for
business interruption costs recorded in 2003. As a result of the final
insurance settlement recorded at the end of 2003, no additional insurance
coverage was available to offset similar costs incurred in subsequent periods.
Tech Group segment operating profit improved throughout the three year period
ending in 2005, principally benefiting from the acquisition of the TGI business
and cost savings following the closure of the former U.K. facility at the end
of 2003.

INTEREST EXPENSE (NET)

The
following table summarizes our net interest expense for the three-year period
ended December 31, 2005:

2005 net interest expense increased $5.0 million over
the prior year. As a result of the 2005 acquisition activity, average borrowing
levels increased by 47.8% in 2005 and accounted for $4.0 million of the
interest expense increase. Total debt outstanding at December 31, 2005 was
$281.0 million compared to $160.8 million at December 31, 2004. The
remaining $1.0 million increase in 2005 interest expense was caused by higher
interest rates on variable rate borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
The average interest rate on variable rate borrowings was 4.8% in 2005 compared
to 3.1% in 2004.


Net interest expense
declined $0.5 million in 2004 as compared to 2003 results, largely as a result
of lower average debt levels and an increase in capitalized interest associated
with the Kinston construction project.

INCOME TAXES

The effective tax rate on consolidated income from
continuing operations was 28.8% in 2005, 27.0% in 2004 and 36.0% in 2003.

In 2005 we repatriated $166.0 million in earnings from
foreign subsidiaries to the United States parent companies. The foreign
repatriations were made in accordance with the provisions of the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 (“AJCA”). The AJCA provided a temporary incentive for U.S.
multi-national companies to repatriate accumulated income earned in controlled
foreign corporations by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction on
qualified distributions occurring before December 31, 2005. Our results
include a $1.5 million net tax charge ($5.2 million gross tax cost, less $2.4
million of foreign tax credits and $1.3 million in previously established
accruals for unremitted earnings) incurred in connection with the repatriation
program which increased our overall 2005 effective tax rate by 2.5 percentage
points. The 2005 restructuring credit in the U.K. allowed us to utilize prior
year loss carry-forwards and therefore decreased our 2005 effective tax rate by
0.6 percentage points. In addition, we reduced tax contingencies connected with
the closure of tax years in certain international locations resulting in a 2.9
percentage point reduction in the 2005 effective tax rate.

The 2004 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by
the utilization of foreign tax credits on the filing of a prior year U.S. tax
return, a change in French tax law extending the life of net operating loss
carry-forwards and the reversal of reserves attributable to the closing of tax
years. The combined impact of these items, offset partially by the
non-deductible restructuring charge, resulted in a 4.5 percentage point
reduction in the 2004 effective tax rate.

The 2003 effective tax
rate was unfavorably affected by the impairment charge in the United Kingdom
which did not result in a tax benefit as management does not expect to generate
future taxable income in the specific U.K. legal entity sufficient to utilize
net operating loss carry-forwards. Additionally, management provided a $0.5
million valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset connected with this
location that was unlikely to be realized. These items increased the 2003
effective tax rate by 3.7 percentage points.

EQUITY IN AFFILIATES

The contribution to earnings from our 25% ownership
interest in Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. in Japan and 49% ownership interest in three
companies in Mexico was income of $2.4 million, $3.4 million and $1.6 million
for the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The results achieved during
the last two years reflect the impact on Daikyo’s results of customer purchases
during 2004 of a product in advance of a pending FDA approval of a required
product reformulation. The increased customer inventory levels accumulated
during 2004 resulted in lower sales levels for Daikyo in 2005 as customers
utilized existing inventory pending validation of the new formulation. The 2005
operating results of the Mexican affiliates improved on strong sales growth
generating results equal to those recorded in 2004 which included a
non-operating $0.6 million gain on the sale of real estate.

Our purchases from all
affiliates totaled approximately $20.6 million in 2005, $28.6 million in 2004
and $18.4 million in 2003, the majority of which relates to our distributorship
agreement with Daikyo which allows us to purchase and re-sell Daikyo products.
Sales to affiliates were $0.5 million, $0.6 million and $0.7 million in 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively.


INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS

Our 2005 net income from continuing operations was
$45.2 million, or $1.39 per diluted share. These results included incremental
income tax expense of $1.5 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, associated with
the repatriation of foreign sourced income under the American Jobs Creation Act
of 2004. Results for 2005 also include a restructuring credit which increased
net income from continuing operations by $1.3 million, or $.04 per diluted
share.

Net income from continuing operations in 2004 was
$33.5 million, or $1.09 per diluted share. Results for 2004 include incremental
manufacturing costs of $11.6 million ($7.9 million, net of tax, or $0.26 per
share) associated with the interim production processes that were put in place
following the Kinston accident. In the prior year these incremental
manufacturing costs were reimbursed under insurance coverage. 2004 results also
include Kinston-related legal expenses of $1.7 million ($1.2 million net of
tax, or $0.04 per share). The closure of a manufacturing plant in the U.K.
resulted in 2004 restructuring charges of $1.0 million ($0.03 per share).
Equity income included a $0.6 million ($0.02 per share) real estate gain. 2004
results also include $2.1 million ($0.07 per share) of favorable tax
adjustments resulting from utilization of foreign tax credits on the filing of
a prior year tax return and a change in French tax legislation.

Net income from continuing
operations in 2003 was $42.9 million, or $1.48 per diluted share. Results for
2003 included a net gain from an insurance settlement of $17.3 million ($12.1
million, net of tax), or $0.42 per share, and asset impairment and
post-employment benefit charges at the U.K. device operation of $7.0 million
($7.5 million including a related tax charge), or $0.26 per share.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

2005 income from discontinued operations was $0.4
million, or $0.01 per diluted share. The majority of the income was generated
from the August 2005 sale of the clinical services unit (pre-tax gain of
$0.7 million, $0.5 million net of tax). Operating losses and other costs
associated with the sale of our former drug delivery business completed in the
first quarter of 2005 totaled $1.9 million ($1.1 million, net of tax), more
than offsetting the operating income of $1.6 million ($1.0 million, net of tax)
generated by the clinical services unit prior to its divestiture.

In December 2004, we
entered into a Share and Asset Purchase Agreement to sell our drug delivery
business to a new company formed by Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII and
Warburg Pincus International Partners to facilitate the acquisition. The sales
price consisted of $7.1 million receivable due in cash at the 2005 closing date
and a 14% ownership interest in the new company valued at $1.0 million. As a
result of the transaction, we recorded a pre-tax loss of $4.7 million ($5.2
million after-tax, or $0.17 per diluted share). The $0.5 million net tax
expense is primarily the result of the reversal of current and prior year tax
benefits that may no longer be available as a result of the transaction. In December 2004
we also announced our intention to exit the clinical services business. The
operating results of the drug delivery business and clinical service unit are
classified within discontinued operations for all periods presented. The
pre-tax loss from the discontinued drug delivery and clinical services
operations was $13.5 million and $17.5 million for the years 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

FINANCIAL
CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash flows generated from operations totaled $85.6
million in 2005, compared to $81.0 million in 2004. Operating cash flows
improved in all geographic regions, with the strongest growth occurring in
North America, reflecting the re-start of operations at our Kinston facility
and a corresponding decrease in interim production costs. 2004 operating cash
flows include $9.2 million of insurance collections received in 2004 that
helped to offset the payment of liabilities related to the 2003 Kinston
accident.


Consolidated capital spending for 2005 totaled $54.1
million, compared to $57.4 million in 2004 which included $13.1 million related
to the construction of the new Kinston molding operation. The Pharmaceutical
Systems segment accounted for $38.3 million of our total 2005 capital spending,
consisting of $29.0 million in equipment replacements, rubber tooling projects
and facility improvements, $6.1 million in plant expansion activity in Europe,
and $3.2 million in information systems projects. 2005 capital spending for
equipment and facility upgrades within the Tech Group segment totaled $13.2
million, of which $7.9 million related to projects within the acquired business.
General corporate and other projects account for the remaining $2.6 million of
2005 capital expenditures. We anticipate that total 2006 capital spending will
be approximately $68.0 million (Pharmaceutical Systems segment $48.0 million,
Tech Group segment $18.0 million and general corporate $2.0 million).
Approximately $33.0 million of the 2006 projected capital spending is targeted
for normal equipment replacements, facility maintenance and tooling projects.
The 2006 capital spending estimate also includes $26.0 million in new product
and expansion projects and $9.0 million in information systems upgrades.

cash flows from investing activities include the February 10, 2005
acquisition of Monarch, a contract laboratory business, the May 20, 2005
purchase of TGI, a plastic device and molding business and the August 2,
2005 acquisition of Medimop, a business focused on reconstitution and mixing
technologies for injectable products. The following table summarizes the total
purchase price paid for each business:

2005 cash flows provided by investing operations
include a $0.2 million loan repayment received from our affiliate in Mexico and
$1.3 million in proceeds from surplus equipment sales. Cash provided by
investing activities in 2004 includes $31.8 million of insurance proceeds
related to the Kinston accident, which helped to fund the reconstruction of the
new facility.

Financing cash flows in 2005 include proceeds from
stock option exercises and related tax benefits totaling $14.1 million. Dividends
paid to shareholders were $14.1 million ($0.45 per share). The Board of
Directors intends to continue the practice of declaring dividends following
their quarterly review of the West Pharmaceutical Services Inc.’s financial
condition and results of operations. Management expects that cash flows from
continuing operations, net of capital spending requirements, will provide
sufficient funding for the current dividend policy.

Financing cash flows also reflect the $120.6 million
in cash borrowed under revolving credit and other long term debt agreements to
fund our 2005 acquisition activity. Refer to Note 16,

Debt

,
for a discussion of the principal changes in our debt structure.


The
following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31,
2005, and the effect the obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and
cash flow in future periods:

Included in the three to five year long-term debt
payments of $205.5 million are $100.0 million of 6.81% senior notes maturing April 8,
2009. On January 25, 2006, we notified the noteholders of our intention to
prepay the notes effective February 27, 2006. We have financed the
prepayment by issuing new senior unsecured notes having a weighted average
maturity of just over nine years. See Note 22,

Subsequent
Event—Senior Notes

, for further information.

We have letters of credit totaling $5.2 million
supporting the reimbursement of workers’ compensation and other claims paid on
our behalf by insurance carriers and to guarantee equipment leases in Ireland.
The accrual for insurance obligations was $2.3 million at December 31,
2005.

At December 31, 2005
our consolidated debt was $281.0 million and our debt-to-total invested capital
(total debt, minority interest and shareholders’ equity) ratio was 45.4%
compared to 34.8% at December 31, 2004. Our cash and cash equivalents
balance was $48.8 million at December 31, 2005, compared to $68.8 million
at December 31, 2004. Both the increase in debt levels and decrease in
cash were incurred to support the acquisition activity in 2005. Our December 31,
2005 net working capital totaled $112.4 million and the ratio of current assets
to liabilities was 1.9 to 1. We believe that our financial condition, current
capitalization and expected income from operations will continue to be
sufficient to meet our future expected cash requirements.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET AGREEMENTS

At December 31, 2005, the Company had no
off-balance sheet financing arrangements other than operating leases and
unconditional purchase obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business
and outstanding letters of credit related to various insurance programs and
equipment lease guarantees as noted above.


CRITICAL
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Management’s discussion
and analysis addresses consolidated financial statements that are prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
The application of these principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions, some of which are subjective and complex, that affect the amounts
reported in the consolidated financial statements. Management believes the
following accounting policies and estimates are critical to understanding and
evaluating the results of operations and financial position of West
Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.:

REVENUE RECOGNITION:

Sales
of manufactured components are recorded at the time title and risk of loss
passes to the customer. Some customers receive pricing rebates upon attaining
established sales volumes. Management records rebate costs based on its
assessment of the likelihood that these volumes will be attained. We also
establish product return liabilities for customer quality claims when such
amounts are deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. Revenue associated
with tooling and other engineering service agreements is recognized under the
percentage of completion method of accounting. For agreements with multiple
deliverables, we assess whether more than one unit of accounting exists. If
more than one unit exists, revenue for each separate unit based on the
calculated allocation is recorded as earned.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED
ASSETS:

We review goodwill and long-lived assets
annually and whenever circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these
assets may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment as part of the
operating segment to which it belongs. We have determined our operating
segments to be the Americas and Europe/Asia divisions of the Pharmaceutical
Systems segment, and the Tech Group segment. For assets held and used in the
business, management estimates the future cash flows to be derived from the
related asset or business unit. When assets are held for sale, management
determines fair value by estimating the anticipated proceeds to be received
upon the sale of the asset, less disposition costs. Changes in the estimate of
fair value, including the estimate of future cash flows, could have a material
impact on our future results of operations and financial position.

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS:

The measurement of the obligations under our defined
benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans are subject to a number of
assumptions. These include the rate of return on plan assets and the rate at
which the future obligations are discounted to present value. For U.S. plans,
which account for over 90% of global plan assets, the long-term rate of return
assumption decreased to 8.75% in 2005 from 9.0% in 2004. In 2006, the long-term
rate of return assumption is 8.00%. The return assumption is reviewed annually
and determined by the projected return over a 10-year period for the
expected mix of plan assets (approximately 65% equity and 35% debt securities).
The discount rate was reduced 10 basis points to 5.65% at December 31,
2005, to reflect current market conditions. The discount rate selected is the
single rate equivalent for a theoretical portfolio of high quality corporate
bonds that produces a cash flow pattern equivalent to the plans’ projected
benefit payments. Changes in these estimates, including the market performance
of plan assets and other actuarial assumptions, could have a material impact on
our future results of operations and financial position. Every 25 basis point
reduction in the long-term rate of return assumption would increase pension
expense by approximately $0.5 million. A 25 basis point reduction in the
discount rate would increase pension expense by approximately $0.7 million. In
addition, restructuring events such as plant closures or changes in pension
plan provisions could result in curtailment or settlement of pension plan
obligations, which would result in gain or loss recognition in the period when
such an event occurs.

We are currently
monitoring the progress of a Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
project to comprehensively reconsider the guidance in FASB Statement 87, “Employers’
Accounting for Pensions”, and FASB Statement 106, “Employers’ Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions”. One of the current
recommendations of the project is to recognize the funded status of a pension
plan on the balance sheet. Under the current standard, the funded status of a
plan is disclosed in the footnotes. Differences between expected and actual
experience and plan amendments are currently reflected in the footnote
disclosure as “unrecognized actuarial gains or losses” or “unrecognized prior


service
costs”, and are amortized into expense over future service periods. As
currently defined, the FASB project on pensions recommends the recognition of a
liability for any under-funded pension plan where the projected benefit
obligation of the plan exceeds the fair value of its assets. If the proposed
standard were in effect at December 31, 2005, we would be required to
record an $18.7 million liability for our U.S. qualified pension plan, rather
than the $45.5 million asset currently reflected on our balance sheet. The
impact of these changes would reduce shareholders equity by $41.7 million
($64.2 million pre-tax, less a $22.5 million reduction of deferred tax liabilities).
The FASB expects to issue an exposure draft for public comment in March 2006,
and currently intends that the proposed changes would apply to fiscal years
ending after December 15, 2006.

INCOME TAXES:

We
estimate income taxes payable based upon current domestic and international tax
legislation. In addition, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are
established to recognize differences between the tax basis and financial
statement carrying values of assets and liabilities. We maintain valuation
allowances where it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred
tax asset will not be realized. The recoverability of tax assets is subject to
our estimates of future profitability, generally at the local subsidiary
company and country level. Changes in tax legislation, business plans and other
factors may affect the ultimate recoverability of tax assets or final tax
payments, which could result in adjustments to tax expense in the period such
change is determined.

During 2005, the FASB
published and deliberated an exposure draft, “Accounting for Uncertain Tax
Positions—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (Proposed
Interpretation)”. This project seeks to clarify what criteria must be met prior
to recognition of the financial statement benefit of a position taken in a tax
return. Currently, we record the benefit of an uncertain tax position only when
it is realized or probable that our position will be sustained. Under the
proposed interpretation, a tax position would be recognized when the weight of
available evidence indicates it is more likely than not, based solely on the
technical merits, that the position will be sustained on audit, including
resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The Board
expects the final interpretation, which would include amendments to Statement
109, to be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006
and will encourage earlier application. Management has not yet determined what
impact, if any, the proposed changes may have on our financial statements.

INVENTORIES:

Accounting for inventories involves estimates
regarding the proper determination of manufacturing cost, obsolescence and
identifying inventory values that exceed estimated market values. The
determination of manufacturing cost includes the identification of direct
material costs and allocations of direct labor, variable production costs and
overhead. Allocations of fixed overhead costs are based on estimates of normal
capacity and require judgment when production levels are below normal so that
idle capacity costs are expensed in the period incurred. The valuation of
inventories is also subject to usage or ‘flow’ assumptions. Over 70% of our
inventory is accounted for under a combination of the First-in, First-Out
(FIFO) and average cost inventory usage methods. The remaining inventory,
primarily located in the United States, is accounted for under the Last-in,
First-Out (LIFO) method. We are currently evaluating the possibility of
converting all domestic West Pharmaceutical Services locations to the FIFO
method. Management expects to complete its evaluation during the first quarter
of 2006. A change from LIFO to FIFO would not have a material effect on our
results of operations or financial position.

Please refer to Note 1,

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

, and Note 21,

New Accounting Standards

, of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included within Item 8 of this report for additional
information on accounting and reporting standards considered in the preparation
and presentation of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.’s financial
statements.

ITEM
7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND
QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

.

We are exposed to market
risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The
following describes the nature of these risks. All debt securities and
derivative instruments are considered non-trading.


Foreign Currency
Exchange Risk

We have subsidiaries
outside the U.S. accounting for approximately 51% of consolidated net sales.
Virtually all of these sales and related operating costs are denominated in the
currency of the local country and translated into U.S. dollars. Although the
majority of the assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are in the local
currency of the subsidiary and are therefore also translated into U.S. dollars,
the foreign subsidiaries may hold assets or liabilities not denominated in
their local currency. These items may give rise to foreign currency transaction
gains and losses. As a result, our results of operations and financial position
are exposed to changing exchange rates. We periodically use forward contracts
to hedge certain transactions or to neutralize month-end balance sheet
exposures on cross-currency intercompany loans. We have forward contracts with
a combined fair market value of $100 thousand as of December 31, 2005 to
sell currencies in Asia. We also have an outstanding loan denominated in
Japanese Yen to hedge the investment in our Japanese affiliate. At December 31,
2005, a $200 thousand loss is included in the cumulative foreign currency
translation adjustment related to this hedge.

Interest Rate Risk

As a result of our normal
borrowing activities, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates which we
manage primarily through our financing activities. We have long-term debt with
both fixed and variable interest rates. Long-term debt consists of senior
notes, revolving credit facilities and capital lease obligations. Portions of long-term
debt which are payable during 2006 are classified as short-term liabilities as
of December 31, 2005.

The following table
summarizes our interest rate risk-sensitive instruments:

(1)   See Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements,

Subsequent Event—Senior Notes

, for additional information on
the refinancing of these notes in February 2006.

(2)

We
have entered into two interest rate swap agreements effectively transforming
$75,000 of variable rate debt into fixed rate debt with interest rates
averaging 5.4%. See Note 16,

Debt

, for
additional information.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
Subsidiaries

for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
Subsidiaries

for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries at December 31,
2005 and 2004

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
Subsidiaries

for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial
statements.


CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
Subsidiaries

for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.


NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in thousands, except share and per share data)

Note 1:

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis
of Presentation:

The financial statements are
prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. These principles require management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
revenue and expenses and the disclosure of contingencies in the financial
statements. Actual amounts realized may differ from these estimates.

Principles
of Consolidation:

The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
its majority-owned subsidiaries (which may be referred to as “West”, the “Company”,
“we”, “us” or “our”) after the elimination of intercompany transactions. We
have no interests in variable interest entities.

Reclassification:

Certain
reclassifications of deferred income tax assets and liabilities were made to
prior period financial statements to be consistent with the current period
reporting presentation.

Cash
and Cash Equivalents:

Cash equivalents include
time deposits, certificates of deposit and all highly liquid debt instruments
with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase.

Accounts
Receivable:

Our accounts receivable balance at December 31,
2005 and 2004, was net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $1,000 and
$500, respectively. We record the allowance based on a specific identification
methodology.

Inventories:

Inventories
are valued at the lower of cost or market. The cost of the majority of our
inventory is determined on a combination of the First-in, First-out (FIFO) and
average cost methods of inventory usage. The remaining inventory, primarily
located in the United States, is accounted for under the Last-in, First-Out
(LIFO) method.

Foreign
Currency Translation:

Foreign currency
transaction gains and losses and translation gains and losses of subsidiaries
operating in high-inflation economies are recognized in the determination of
net income. Foreign currency translation adjustments of other subsidiaries and
affiliates operating outside the U.S. are accumulated in other comprehensive
income, a separate component of shareholders’ equity.

Financial
Instruments:

We record all derivatives on the
balance sheet at fair value. The change in fair value of a derivative designated
and qualified as part of a cash flow hedging transaction is recorded each
period in other comprehensive income. A change in fair value of a fair value
hedging transaction is recorded each period in earnings. The change in fair
value of a derivative instrument with no hedging designation or purpose is
recognized immediately into earnings.

We use interest rate swaps and forward exchange
contracts to minimize the economic exposure related to fluctuating interest and
foreign exchange rates. Forward exchange arrangements regarding anticipated raw
material purchases and interest rate swap contracts on variable rate interest
payment obligations are designated as cash flow hedges; therefore, unrealized
gains and losses are recorded in other comprehensive income. As the underlying
transaction occurs, any unrealized gains or losses on the related hedge are
reclassified from other comprehensive income to the statement of income offsetting
the income effects of the transaction to which they relate. Gains and losses on
forward exchange contracts designated as fair value hedges, primarily related
to raw material purchase commitments, are recognized as part of the underlying
transaction. If forward contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, they are
recorded at fair value with any gains or losses recognized in other expense
(income). We also engage in hedges of our net investments in foreign operations
through forward contracts in order to minimize the economic exposure


to fluctuating foreign
exchange rates. Fair value adjustments for hedges of the net investment in
foreign operations are reported in other comprehensive income as foreign
currency translation adjustments and are released to earnings upon disposal of
the investment.

Revenue
Recognition:

Sales of manufactured components
are recorded at the time title and risk of loss passes to the customer. Some
customers receive pricing rebates upon attaining established sales volumes.
Management records rebate costs based on its assessment of the likelihood that
these volumes will be attained. We also establish product return liabilities
for customer quality claims when such amounts are deemed probable and can be
reasonably estimated. Revenue associated with tooling and other engineering
service agreements is recognized under the percentage of completion method of
accounting. For agreements with multiple deliverables, we assess whether more
than one unit of accounting exists. If more than one unit exists, revenue for
each separate unit based on the calculated allocation is recorded as earned.

Shipping
and Handling Costs:

Net sales include shipping
and handling costs collected from customers in connection with the sale. Costs
incurred for shipping and handling are included in cost of sales.

Property,
Plant and Equipment:

Property, plant and
equipment assets are carried at cost. Maintenance and minor repairs and
renewals are charged to expense as incurred. Costs incurred for computer
software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized for application
development activities and immediately expensed for preliminary project
activities or post-implementation activities. Upon sale or retirement of
depreciable assets, costs and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated,
and gains or losses are recognized in other expense (income). Depreciation is
computed principally on the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the assets, or the remaining term of the lease, if shorter.

Goodwill
and Other Intangibles:

Goodwill and intangible
assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment each fourth quarter or
more frequently if an event occurs that indicates that there could be an
impairment. The first step of the impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting
unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the
reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second
step compares the carrying amount of the goodwill to its implied fair value.
The implied fair value is determined by allocating the fair value of the
reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the
reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value
of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting
unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts
assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill.
If the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an
impairment loss is recorded. Other intangible assets, including patents and
licensed technology, are recorded at cost and are amortized on a straight-line
method over their useful lives. Certain tradenames have been determined to have
indefinite lives and therefore are not subject to amortization.

Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets:

Long-lived assets
including property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets subject to
amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever circumstances indicate that
the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. An asset is
considered impaired if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the sum of the
future expected undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset. Once an
asset is considered impaired, an impairment loss is recorded for the difference
between the asset’s carrying value and its fair value. This loss is included in
operating profit. For assets to be held and used in the business, management
determines fair value by estimating the future cash flows to be derived from
the asset and discounts these flows to a net present value using an appropriate
discount rate. For assets held for sale or for investment purposes, management
determines fair value by estimating the anticipated proceeds to be received upon
sale of the asset, less costs to sell.


Research
and Development:

Research, development and
engineering expenditures are for the creation and application of new or
improved products and processes. Expenditures include primarily salaries and
outside services for those directly involved in research and development activities.
Research and development costs of $6,300 in 2005, $5,200 in 2004 and $4,600 in
2003, within the Pharmaceutical Systems segment were expensed as incurred. The
Tech Group segment expensed as incurred research and development expenses of
$1,600 in 2005, $1,600 in 2004 and $1,700 in 2003.

Environmental
Remediation and Compliance Costs:

Environmental
remediation costs are accrued when such costs are probable and reasonable
estimates are determinable. Cost estimates are not discounted and include
investigation, cleanup and monitoring activities; such estimates are adjusted,
if necessary, based on additional findings. In general, environmental
compliance costs are expensed as incurred. Environmental compliance costs at
current operating sites are capitalized if they increase the value of the
property and/or prevent environmental hazards from occurring.

Litigation:

We
are from time to time party to lawsuits arising from our operations. We record
liabilities when a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. These
estimates are based on an analysis made by internal and external legal counsel
considering information known at the time.

Income
Taxes:

Deferred income taxes are recognized by
applying enacted statutory tax rates, applicable to future years, to temporary
differences between the tax basis and financial statement carrying values of
our assets and liabilities. Valuation allowances are established when it is
more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be
realized. U.S. income taxes and withholding taxes are accrued on the portion of
earnings of international subsidiaries and affiliates (which are corporate
joint ventures) intended to be remitted to the parent company.

Stock-Based Compensation:

On
January 1, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 123(R), “Share Based Payment—Revised 2004”, using the modified
prospective transition method. Under this method, stock-based employee
compensation cost is recognized using the fair-value based method for all new
awards granted after January 1, 2005. Additionally, compensation costs for
unvested stock options and awards that are outstanding at January 1, 2005,
will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period
based on the grant-date fair value of those options and awards as previously
calculated under the pro-forma disclosures under SFAS 123. Prior to the
adoption of SFAS 123(R), we accounted for stock-based compensation using the
intrinsic value method prescribed in Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and related interpretations. If the
fair value based method prescribed in Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” had
been applied to stock option grants and shares issued under the employee stock
purchase plan in the most recent two years, our net income and basic and
diluted net income per share would have been reduced as summarized below:


In 2004, we accelerated the vesting dates for options
held by employees of the drug delivery business resulting in a $600 charge
recorded in discontinued operations.

Net Income (Loss) Per
Share:

Basic net income (loss) per share is
computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of shares
of common stock outstanding during each period. Net income (loss) per share
assuming dilution considers the potential issuance of common shares under our
stock option and award plans, based on the treasury stock method. The treasury
stock method assumes the use of exercise proceeds to repurchase common stock at
the average fair market value in the period.

Note 2:

Acquisitions

On August 2, 2005, we acquired 90% of the equity
interests in Medimop Medical Projects, Ltd. and its affiliated company Medimop
USA LLC (“Medimop”). Medimop, a privately owned company headquartered in Ra’anana,
Israel, is a leading developer of disposable medical devices for the mixing,
transfer, reconstitution and administration of injectable drugs. We also
received an option to purchase, at fair value, the remaining 10% ownership of
the two companies, which generally becomes exercisable four years after the
closing date.

We paid total consideration of $40,000 for the initial
investment, of which approximately $36,400 was paid in cash and the balance by
delivering 128,547 shares of our common stock issued at fair value. We will also
pay up to an additional $1,800 of contingent cash consideration, depending on
the achievement of operating goals over a four-year period.

Following
is an allocation of the purchase price which has been finalized as of December 31,
2005:

The
acquired intangible assets and their respective remaining useful lives are as
follows:

Estimate of

Fair Value

Remaining

Useful Life

Trademarks

$

1,200

12 Years

Patents

3,750

12 Years

Covenant not to
  compete

3,750

7 Years

Customer
  relationships

8,700

10 Years

$

17,400

The amortization expense for 2005 for these intangible
assets was $800. The estimated annual amortization expense of these intangible
assets for the next five years is approximately $1,800 per year.

Our financial statements include the results of the
Medimop business for periods after August 2, 2005.

On May 20, 2005, we completed our acquisition of
substantially all of the assets of the Tech Group, Inc. (“TGI”), including
the outstanding stock of, or other equity interests in, TGI’s wholly owned


subsidiaries in the United
States, Puerto Rico, Ireland and Mexico. TGI provides contract design, tooling
and manufacturing services and solutions using plastic injection molding and
component assembly processes for the medical device, pharmaceutical, diagnostic
and general healthcare and consumer industries. The total purchase price was
$140,500 of which $7,100 is held in an escrow account (restricted cash) at December 31,
2005. This restricted cash will be paid to the sellers contingent on the
performance of a specific product line during the twelve-month period ending June 26,
2006.

Following
is an allocation of the purchase price which has been finalized as of December 31,
2005:

The
acquired intangible assets and their respective remaining useful lives are as
follows:

Estimate of

Fair Value

Remaining

Useful Life

Trademarks

$

10,000

Indefinite

Customer
  contracts

22,700

20 Years

Customer
  relationships

20,500

25 Years

$

53,200

The amortization expense for 2005 for these intangible
assets was $1,100. The estimated annual amortization expense of these
intangible assets for each of the next five years is approximately $2,000 per
year.

Our financial statements include the results of the
TGI business for periods after May 20, 2005.

The
following unaudited pro forma summary combines our results with the results of
operations of Medimop and TGI as if the acquisitions had occurred at the
beginning of each period presented. These pro forma results have been prepared
for comparative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of what would
have occurred had the acquisitions been made at the beginning of each period,
or of results which may occur in the future.


On February 11,
2005, we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Monarch Analytical
Laboratories, Inc. (“Monarch”). Monarch is a contract laboratory business
that performs testing of pharmaceutical packaging components specializing in
plastic and glass materials. On the closing date, we paid $2,000 in cash and
70,586 shares of our common stock valued at $1,800 for Monarch. Additionally,
we assumed, and subsequently paid, debt in the amount of $1,900. Following is
an allocation of the purchase price which has been finalized as of December 31,
2005:

Current assets

$


Property, plant
  and equipment

2,000

Goodwill

3,400

Current
  liabilities and deferred taxes

(500

)

Total consideration

$

5,700

Pro forma results assuming the acquisition of Monarch
as of January 1, 2004 would not be materially different from reported
sales or net income.

Goodwill is not deductible
for tax purposes on these acquisitions.

Note 3:

Discontinued
Operations

On August 23, 2005, we sold all of the assets of
our clinical services business unit to Covance Clinical Research Unit Inc. (“Covance”).
At the closing date, we received consideration of $5,700 of cash and a
receivable for an additional $500. The receivable was paid in full during 2005.
As a result of the transaction, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $700 ($500, or
$0.01 per diluted share, net of tax) at December 31, 2005.

In December 2004, we entered into a Share and
Asset Purchase Agreement to sell our drug delivery business to Archimedes
Pharma Limited, a new company formed by Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII and
Warburg Pincus International Partners to facilitate the acquisition. At the February 2005
closing date, we received consideration of $7,100 consisting of cash and
indebtedness assumed by the new company. In addition, we received a 14%
ownership interest in the new company valued at $1,000 which will be accounted
for under the cost method. As a result of the transaction, we recorded a
pre-tax loss of $4,700 ($5,200 after-tax, or $0.17 per diluted share). The
$500 net tax provision is primarily the result of the reversal of current and
prior year tax benefits that may no longer be available as a result of the
transaction.

Net
sales and income from discontinued operations were as follows:




Net sales

$

7,900

$

10,800

$

7,800

Pretax income
  (loss) from discontinued operations

(300

)

(13,500

)

(17,500

)

Pretax income
  (loss) on disposal of business segment


(4,700

)

—

Income tax
  benefit

—

4,100

6,500

Net gain/(loss) from
  discontinued operations

$


$

(14,100

)

$

(11,000

)

Net
cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations was as follows:




Operating
  activities

$

(5,800

)

$

(11,900

)

$

(14,500

)

Proceeds from
  disposition

13,300

—

—

Property, plant
  and equipment acquired

—

(200

)

(400

)

Net cash used in
  discontinued operations

$

7,500

$

(12,100

)

$

(14,900

)


Note 4:

Restructuring
and Impairment Charges

The
following table details activity related to our restructuring obligations:


In 2003, we recorded a $7,000 charge associated with a
decision to discontinue a product line intended for production at our plastic
device plant located in the U.K., a part of the Tech Group segment. The charge
consisted of a $6,000 impairment of fixed assets, including related asset
retirement obligations, and a $1,000 provision for statutory post-employment
benefit obligations for approximately 70 employees. As our fair value
projections for the unit significantly relied on the achievement of sales from this
product line, the carrying value of the long-lived assets could no longer be
supported.

During 2004, we recorded $1,000 of net charges
principally consisting of the excess of future lease costs at the U.K. plant
over expected sub-lease rental income, as well as additional severance expense
and repair costs necessary to return the leased facility to its original
condition.

During 2005, all repair and lease cancellation costs
for the leased facility in the U.K. were paid out and the remainder was reduced
to zero upon completion of the required arrangements. Other cash payments
during the year of $300 were for severance and benefit agreements.

The remaining
restructuring obligations at December 31, 2005 are expected to be paid
within the next year.

Note 5:   Kinston

On January 29, 2003, our Kinston, N.C. plant
suffered an explosion and related fire that resulted in six deaths, a number of
injured personnel and substantial damage to the building, machinery and
equipment and raw material inventories. Our property and business interruption
insurance coverage with our principal insurer provided for a maximum insurance
recovery of $66,000. In February 2004, we and our insurer reached a
consensus that the total losses for business interruption, insured incremental
costs and property replacement would exceed the maximum recoverable amount,
resulting in the final settlement of the insurance claim for the full $66,000
reimbursement. This settlement is reflected in our results as of December 31,
2003.

The
accounting for the insurance settlement and related costs is presented below:

As of December 31, 2003, we had received $25,000
from our principal insurer; therefore, we had recorded an insurance receivable
of $41,000 as of December 31, 2003. We received payment of this receivable
in February of 2004.

As a consequence of the
2003 insurance settlement, no further insurance coverage was available for
costs incurred in subsequent periods. In 2004, business interruption costs of
$11,600 and legal expenses of $1,700 were incurred and included in cost of
goods and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses,
respectively.


Note 6:   Other
Expense (Income)




Foreign exchange
  (gains) losses

$


$

(100

)

$

(500

)

Loss on sales of
  equipment and other assets


1,500

1,400

Other



(300

)

$

1,400

$

1,500

$


2005 results include a
$500 impairment of our investment in a company that had been developing
genomics analysis technology, following that company’s unsuccessful efforts in
finding a commercial sponsor.

Note 7:   Income Taxes

Income
before income taxes from continuing operations was derived as follows:




Domestic
  operations

$

5,900

$

4,800

$

37,800

International
  operations

54,300

36,400

26,700

$

60,200

$

41,200

$

64,500

The
related provision for income taxes from continuing operations consists of:

A
reconciliation of the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate to our effective
consolidated tax rate on income before income taxes from continuing operations
follows:


The
net current and noncurrent components of deferred income taxes recognized in
the balance sheet at December 31 are as follows:

The
following is a summary of the significant components of our deferred tax assets
and liabilities as of December 31:

At December 31, 2005, we had U.S. federal net
operating loss carryforwards of $22,300 and state operating loss carryforwards
of $165,900, which created deferred tax assets of $7,800 and $10,100
respectively; and foreign operating loss carryforwards of $18,900, which
created a deferred tax asset of $5,200. Management estimates that of the total
state and foreign operating loss carryforwards, $165,900 and $16,100,
respectively, are unlikely to be utilized and the associated deferred tax
assets of $10,100 and $4,600, respectively, have been fully reserved. Federal net
operating loss carryforwards expire after 2024. State loss carryforwards expire
as follows: $10,000 in 2006, $7,000 in 2007 and $148,900 after 2007. Foreign
loss carryforwards will expire as follows: $500 in 2008 and $18,400 has no
expiration date.

As of December 31, 2005, we had available foreign
tax credit carryforwards of $6,800 expiring as follows: $200 in 2009, $200 in
2010, $100 in 2011, $2,200 in 2012, $100 in 2013 and $4,000 after 2014. Based
upon current projections, management estimates that $3,200 will not be utilized
and therefore a valuation allowance was established for that amount. We have
research and development credit carryforwards of $2,500, of which $500 expires
in 2020, $500 expires in 2021 and $1,500 expires after 2021.

At December 31, 2005, we had undistributed
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, amounting to $50,500 on which deferred income
taxes have not been provided because such earnings are intended to be reinvested
indefinitely outside of the U.S.


The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “AJCA”)
provides for a special one-time elective dividends-received deduction on the
repatriation of certain foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer equal to 85% of the
eligible distribution. During 2005, we repatriated approximately $166 million,
of which $141 million qualified for the special one-time elective
dividends-received deduction and $25 million constituted earnings that do not
qualify under the Act. We recorded tax expense of $1.5 million related to the
repatriation. Prior to the AJCA, we did not provide deferred taxes on
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as we intended to utilize these
earnings through expansion of our business operations outside the United States
for an indefinite period of time.

The Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) has completed and closed its audits of our U.S. tax returns
through 1997. The IRS is currently conducting audits of the 1998 - 2002 tax
returns.

Note 8:   Segment Information

As of December 31, 2005 our operations are
comprised of two reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Systems and Tech Group. The
Pharmaceutical Systems segment focuses on the design, manufacture and
distribution of elastomer and metal components used in parenteral drug delivery
for customers in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries. The
Pharmaceutical Systems segment has two operating segments: the Americas and
Europe/Asia. These segments are aggregated for reporting purposes as they have
common economic characteristics, produce and sell a similar range of products
in their respective geographic regions, use a similar distribution process and
have a common customer base. The Pharmaceutical Systems segment includes the
results of Medimop, a company acquired in August 2005 which specializes in
reconstitution, mixing and transfer technologies that safely and efficiently
connect, mix and filter injectable drugs in vials, bags, ampoules and syringes.
The Tech Group segment, which is composed of our previously existing Device
Group operating unit and the recently acquired TGI business provides contract
design, tooling and manufacturing services using plastic injection molding and
component assembly processes for the medical device, pharmaceutical, diagnostic
and general healthcare and consumer industries.

Our executive management evaluates the performance of
these operating segments based on operating profit and cash flow generation. General
corporate expenses, restructuring charges and other items are not reflected in
operating profit reviewed by segment management. Corporate segment assets
include pension assets, investments in affiliated companies and net assets of
discontinued operations. The accounting policies of the segments are the same
as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.

We have restated the composition of the reportable
segment information in all prior periods to conform to current organizational
makeup.


The
following table provides information on sales by significant product group:

We had sales to one customer of approximately $76,800,
$61,100 and $58,100 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The
following table presents sales and long-lived assets by the country in which
the legal subsidiary is domiciled and assets are located.


The
following table provides summarized financial information for our segments:

Note 9:   Net Income Per Share

The
following table reconciles shares used in the calculation of basic net income
per share to the shares used in the calculation of net income per share
assuming dilution. There is no adjustment to our net income in the calculation
of net income per share assuming dilution.

For 2005 and 2003, stock options of 400,983 and
2,493,200, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings
per share since the options were antidilutive. For 2004, there were no stock
options excluded from the computation.


Note 10:   Comprehensive Income

Comprehensive income consists of reported net income
and other comprehensive income, which reflects revenue, expenses and gains and
losses that generally accepted accounting principles exclude from net income.
For us, the items excluded from current net income are cumulative foreign
currency translation adjustments, unrealized gains or losses on
available-for-sale securities of affiliates, fair value adjustments on
derivative financial instruments and additional minimum pension liability
adjustments.

The
components of accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31 are as
follows:



Foreign currency
  translation

$

13,100

$

42,900

Unrealized gains
  on securities of affiliates

1,700


Unrealized gains on
  derivatives


—

Minimum pension
  liability

(6,600

)

(7,100

)

$8,900

$

36,400

The accumulated income tax
provision at December 31, 2005 and 2004 for the unrealized gains on
securities of affiliates was $900 and $300, respectively. The minimum pension
liability had an accumulated income tax benefit of $3,600 and $3,800 for the
same periods. An income tax provision of $500 was recorded in 2005 for
unrealized gains on derivatives. Income taxes are generally not provided for
translation adjustments.

Note 11:   Inventories



Finished goods

$

29,000

$

28,800

Work in process

8,800

9,600

Raw materials

23,400

18,300

$

61,200

$

56,700

Included in the amounts
above are inventories located in the U.S. that are valued on the LIFO basis,
amounting to $18,600 and $19,100 at December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, which are approximately $9,900 and $8,600, respectively, lower
than replacement value.

Note 12:   Goodwill and Intangibles

We perform an annual impairment test during the fourth
quarter of each year. No goodwill impairment charges were recorded for the
periods ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.

Goodwill
by reportable segment as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 was as follows:


Intangible
assets and accumulated amortization as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 were
as follows:

Increases in all intangible asset categories are due
to the acquisitions completed during 2005. The cost basis of intangible assets
includes the effects of foreign currency translation adjustments. Amortization
expense for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $2,100,
$200 and $800, respectively. Estimated amortization for the next five years is
as follows: approximately $4,000 per year for 2006 and 2007 and $3,900 per year
for 2008, 2009 and 2010. Trademarks with a carrying amount of $10,000 were
determined to have indefinite lives and therefore do not require amortization.

In addition, we build
tooling, molds and dies for certain customers which is paid for by us and
reimbursed by the customer based upon the tooling agreement. Other noncurrent
assets included unreimbursed tooling costs of $300 and $4,000 at December 31,
2005 and 2004 which accounted for amortization expense of $4,800 and $2,700 for
the years then ended.

Note 13:   Property, Plant and Equipment

A
summary of gross property, plant and equipment at December 31 is presented
in the following table:

Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 was $40,500, $30,300 and $30,400, respectively.

At December 31, 2005,
there were capitalized leases included in ‘buildings and improvements’ and ‘machinery
and equipment’ of $2,100 and $100, respectively. Accumulated depreciation on
all property, plant and equipment accounted for as capitalized leases was $200
at December 31, 2005. There were no capitalized leases at December 31,
2004.


Note 14:   Affiliated Companies

At December 31,
2005, the following affiliated companies were accounted for under the equity
method:

Location

Ownership

interest

West
  Pharmaceutical Services Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico


%

Aluplast S.A. de
  C.V.

Mexico


%

Pharma Tap S.A.
  de C.V.

Mexico


%

Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.

Japan


%

We record equity in net income (loss) of these
affiliated companies for the 12-month period ended October 31.

A
summary of the financial information for these companies is presented below:

Income Statements




Net sales

$

119,600

$

117,900

$

103,000

Gross profit

24,600

30,200

26,500

Net income

8,200

12,100

6,500

During 2004, our Mexican affiliate sold property which
resulted in a gain. Our portion of this gain was $600 and was included in
equity in net income of affiliated companies.

In connection with a 2002 plant consolidation, we
advanced $1,000 to our Mexican affiliate. The note, which is denominated in
U.S. dollars, is at a 5.3% interest rate. At December 31, 2005, the balance
of the note receivable was $200.

Unremitted income of affiliated companies included in
consolidated retained earnings amounted to $19,800, $17,500 and $14,200 at December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Dividends received from affiliated companies
were $100 annually for each of the years 2005, 2004 and 2003.

Our equity in unrealized gains and losses of Daikyo
Seiko, Ltd.’s investment in securities available for sale, included in
accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of shareholders’
equity, was $1,700, $600 and $300 at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. The unrealized gains were net of income tax of $800, $300 and
$400, respectively.

Our purchases and royalty payments made to affiliates
totaled $20,600 and $28,600, respectively, in 2005 and 2004, of which $1,300
and $2,800 was due and payable as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. These transactions primarily relate to a distributorship
agreement allowing us to purchase and re-sell Daikyo products. Sales to
affiliates were $500 and $600, respectively, in 2005 and 2004, of which $200
was receivable as of December 31, 2005 and 2004.


In
addition to affiliates accounted for under the equity method, we also have
affiliates that are accounted for as cost investments. These cost investments
are carried at the lower of cost or market. At December 31, 2005 and 2004,
the aggregate carrying amount of investments in and advances to affiliated
companies was as follows:



Equity companies

$

26,600

$

25,100

Cost companies

1,100

1,500

$

27,700

$

26,600

Note 15:

Benefit Plans

We and certain of our domestic and international
subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans. In addition, we provide
minimal life insurance benefits for certain U.S. retirees and pay a portion of
healthcare (medical and dental) costs for retired U.S. salaried employees and
their dependents. Benefits for participants are coordinated with Medicare and
the plan mandates Medicare risk (HMO) coverage wherever possible and caps the
total contribution for non-HMO coverage.

We use a December 31 measurement date for all
pension and other retirement benefit plans.

The
expense (income) components of net pension expense (income) are as follows:


The
following tables provide a reconciliation of the benefit obligation, plan
assets and funded status of the plans:

International pension plans assets at fair value
included in the preceding tables were $16,400 and $14,900 at December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined
benefit pension plans was $216,000 and $190,100 at December 31, 2005 and
2004, respectively, including $31,700 and $30,700 for international pension
plans, respectively. The pre-tax change in the additional minimum liability
included in other comprehensive income was $(600) in 2005 and $2,800 in 2004.

The aggregate projected benefit obligation and
aggregate fair value of plan assets for pension plans with projected benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets were $237,500 and $192,500, respectively,
as of December 31, 2005, and $217,700 and $184,300, respectively, as of December 31,
2004. The aggregate accumulated benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of
plan assets for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of
plan assets were $40,000 and $16,400, respectively, as of December 31, 2005,
and $37,700 and $14,900, respectively, as of December 31, 2004.


Benefit payments expected
to be paid under our defined benefit pension plans in the next ten years are as
follows:

Expected Benefit Payments

We expect to contribute approximately $1,200 to
pension plans, of which $700 is for international plans, and $400 to other
retirement plans in 2006. We periodically consider additional, voluntary
contributions depending on the investment returns generated by pension plan
assets, changes in benefit obligation projections and other factors.

Weighted
average assumptions used to determine net periodic pension cost for the years
ended December 31 are as follows:

Pension benefits

Other retirement benefits







Discount rate

5.67

%

5.96

%

6.40

%

5.75

%

6.00

%

6.50

%

Rate of
  compensation increase

4.62

%

4.69

%

4.72

%

—

—

—

Long-term rate of return
  of assets

8.51

%

8.77

%

8.85

%

—

—

—

Weighted
average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations at December 31
are as follows:

Pension benefits

Other retirement benefits





Discount rate

5.53

%

5.67

%

5.65

%

5.75

%

Rate of compensation
  increase

4.62

%

4.69

%

—

—

The discount rate used to determine the benefit
obligations for U.S. plans was 5.65% and 5.75% for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The weighted average discount rate used to
determine the benefit obligations for all international plans was 4.75% and
5.19% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The
rate of compensation increase for U.S. plans was 5.00% for all years presented
while the weighted average rate for all international plans was 3.08% and 3.19%
for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Other
retirement benefits were only available to U.S. employees.

The long-term rate of return for U.S. plans, which
account for 91% of global plan assets, was 8.75% for the year ended December 31,
2005 and 9.00% for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003.

The assumed healthcare cost trend used is 10.50% for
all participants in 2005, decreasing to 5.50% by 2011. Increasing or decreasing
the assumed trend rate for healthcare costs by one percentage point would
result in an $800 increase or decrease, respectively, in the accumulated
benefit obligation. The related


change in the aggregate
service and interest cost components of the 2005 plan expense would be a $200
increase or decrease, respectively.

Our
pension plans weighted average asset allocations by asset category as of December 31
are as follows:



Equity securities


%


%

Debt securities



Cash


—


%


%

Our U.S. pension plan is managed as a balanced
portfolio comprised of two components: equity and fixed income debt securities.
Equity investments are used to maximize the long-term real growth of fund
assets, while fixed income investments are used to generate current income,
provide for a more stable periodic return, and to provide some protection
against a prolonged decline in the market value of fund equity investments.
Temporary funds may be held as cash. We maintain a long-term strategic asset
allocation policy which provides guidelines for ensuring that the fund’s
investments are managed with the short-term and long-term financial goals of
the fund but provide the flexibility to allow for changes in capital markets.

The
following are our target asset allocations and acceptable allocation ranges:

Target

allocation

Allocation

range

Equity securities


%

60%-70%

Debt securities


%

30%-40%

Other


%

0%-5%

Diversification across and within asset classes is the
primary means by which we mitigate risk. We maintain guidelines for all asset
and sub-asset categories in order to avoid excessive investment concentrations.
Fund assets are monitored on a regular basis. If at any time the fund asset
allocation is not within the acceptable allocation range, funds will be
reallocated. We also review the fund on a regular basis to ensure that the
investment returns received are consistent with the short-term and long-term
goals of the fund and with comparable market returns.

We are prohibited from investing pension fund assets
in the following: our own stock, securities on margin, or derivative
securities, and from pledging of securities.

We provide certain post-employment benefits for
terminated and disabled employees, including severance pay, disability-related
benefits and healthcare benefits. These costs are accrued over the employee’s
active service period or, under certain circumstances, at the date of the event
triggering the benefit.

We also sponsor a defined
contribution savings plan for certain salaried and hourly U.S. employees. Our
contributions are equal to 50% of each participant’s contribution up to 6% of
the participant’s base compensation. Our contributions were $1,400 in 2005,
$1,400 in 2004 and $1,200 in 2003.


Note 16:   Debt

Short-Term

At December 31,



Capital leases
  (5.3%)

$


$

—

Notes payable
  (3.1%)

—

10,000

$


$

10,000

At December 31,
2005, $200 of the short-term capital leases is denominated in Euro. All other
balances at December 31, 2005 are denominated in U.S. dollars.

On May 18,
2005, we amended our revolving credit facility that was put into place during
2004, which, among other things:

a) increased the aggregate revolving credit facility
to $200,000 from $125,000, with the Company retaining the ability to increase
the facility by an additional $25,000 to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$225,000;

b) extended the term of the facility by approximately
one year to May 17, 2010;

c) amended the leverage ratio covenant to total
indebtedness of not more than three and one-half times (3.5x) earnings before
income tax, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) for any period of four
consecutive quarters; and

d) amended the interest rate “spread” applicable to
amounts borrowed under the facility to be determined by reference to that
leverage ratio.

In addition, we must pay a commitment fee quarterly
ranging from 0.15% to 0.35% as determined by the Leverage Ratio on any unused
commitments. At December 31, 2005, we had an unused commitment level of
$94,500.

At December 31, 2005, there is a $14,500 note
under the revolving credit facility denominated in Japanese Yen, an $18,000
note under the revolving credit facility denominated in Danish Krone, a $32,000
note under the revolving credit facility denominated in Euro and a $200 capital
lease denominated in Euro. At December 31, 2005, $216,000 of long-term
debt was denominated in U.S. dollars.

Debt covenants in our $100,000 senior notes due April 2009
were simultaneously updated to conform to the debt covenants, including the
leverage ratio, contained in the amended revolving credit agreement.

On July 28, 2005, we concluded a private
placement of $75,000 in senior floating rate notes. The total amount of the
private placement was divided into two tranches with $50,000 maturing in 7
years on July 28, 2012 (“Series A Notes”) and $25,000 maturing in ten
years on July 28, 2015 (“Series B Notes”). The two tranches have
interest payable based on LIBOR rates, with the Series A Notes at LIBOR
plus 80 basis points and the Series B Notes at LIBOR plus 90 basis points.
Covenants included in the agreement


conform to our revolving
credit agreement. Proceeds from this agreement were used to fund the
acquisition of Medimop with the balance used to reduce borrowings under the
revolving credit facility.

On July 28, 2005, we also entered into two
interest-rate swap agreements to protect against volatility in the interest
rates payable on the Series A and B Notes. The first interest rate swap
agreement has a seven-year term at a notional amount of $50,000 under which we
will receive variable interest rate payments based on three-month LIBOR in
return for making quarterly fixed payments. The second interest rate swap
agreement has a ten-year term at a notional amount of $25,000 under which we
will receive variable interest rate payments based on 3-month LIBOR in
return for making quarterly fixed payments.

The interest-rate swap agreements effectively fix the
interest rates payable on the Series A and B notes at 5.32% and 5.51%,
respectively. At December, 2005, the interest rate swap agreements had a fair
value of $1,200.

Long-term
debt maturing in the years following 2005 is as follows:


$



—


100,000


105,500

Thereafter

75,000

$

280,700

As of December 31, 2005 we were in compliance
with all debt covenants.

Interest costs incurred
during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $14,600, $9,800 and $10,400, respectively, of
which $600, $1,300 and $700, respectively, were capitalized as part of the cost
of constructing certain assets.

Note 17:

Financial
Instruments

The
following disclosure reflects the estimated fair value of our financial
instruments as of December 31:

Methods used to estimate the fair market values of the
above listed financial instruments are as follows: cash and cash equivalents
and accounts receivable, due to their short maturity, are estimated at carrying
values that approximate market; debt is estimated based on current market
quotes for instruments of similar maturity; interest rate swap contracts are
valued at fair market value; and forward exchange rate contracts are valued at
published market prices, market prices of comparable instruments or quotes.

We use interest rate swaps and forward exchange
contracts to minimize the economic exposure related to fluctuating interest and
foreign exchange rates. Derivatives used by us are effective as all of the
critical terms of the derivative instruments match the hedged item.
Effectiveness is measured on a quarterly basis.


We are exposed to currency fluctuations on
cross-currency intercompany loans. As a result, short-term foreign exchange
contracts are used to neutralize month-end balance sheet exposures. The forward
contracts are not designated as hedges and are recorded at fair value with any
gains or losses recognized in current period earnings in accordance with SFAS No. 133,
“Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities.” Gains
and losses on these contracts are typically offset by gains and losses on the
underlying item.

In January 2003, we
entered into an arrangement to hedge our net investment in Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.,
a Japanese company in which we have a 25% ownership interest. Our strategy was
to minimize the exposure to foreign currency fluctuations by employing
borrowings in the functional currency of the investment. We have designated our
1.7 billion Japanese yen ($14,500 at December 31, 2005) note payable under
the revolving credit agreement as a hedge of our net investment in Daikyo
Seiko, Ltd. The yen denominated note reduces our net investment in yen
denominated assets and as a result, diminishes our exposure to exchange rate
fluctuations. A $200 cumulative foreign exchange translation loss on the yen
denominated borrowing is recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income
as of December 31, 2005.

Note 18:

Capital Stock

Purchases
(sales) of common stock held in treasury during the three years ended December 31,
2005, are as follows:

On September 29, 2004, we completed a two-for-one
split on common stock to all shareholders of record as of September 15,
2004. All share and per share data included in the accompanying financial
statements for all periods presented have been adjusted to retroactively
reflect the stock split.

In 2002, our Board of Directors authorized the
donation of up to 80,000 shares of our stock over the next three years to a
related party charitable organization. We donated 12,600 and 28,000 shares held
in treasury to this organization in 2005 and 2003, respectively. No shares were
donated during 2004.

In 2000, we established a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan for designated executive officers. Deferred amounts are
invested in funds at the executives’ election. The plan requires that a portion
of the deferred amount be invested in our stock. Purchases of our stock by the
plan were 6,600, 3,800 and 1,000 shares in 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. As of December 31, 2005, there were 62,100 shares of our
stock held by the plan, including 35,200 shares deferred by employees under the
2004 Stock-Based Compensation Plan.

We maintain an employee
stock purchase plan, which provides for the sale of our common stock to
substantially all employees at a 15% discount. The plan has two six-month
offering periods per calendar year at which time employees can enroll. Payroll
deductions are limited to 25% of the employee’s base compensation. Employees
may also make cash contributions to the plan. Employees may not buy more than
$25 thousand worth of Company stock under the plan in any one calendar year.
Shares are purchased at the lower of 85% of our stock price on the last trading
day before commencement of the offering period or 85% of our stock price on the
last day of the offering period

(“a look-back option”). The plan
purchases


shares
from stock held in treasury. In early 2006, the Employee Stock Purchase plan
was modified, eliminating the “look-back option”, requiring employees to
contribute to the plan through payroll deductions only and establishing
quarterly offering periods.

During 2005, we recorded pre-tax
compensation expense of $1,800 related to the employee stock purchase plan.

Note 19:

Stock Option and
Award Plans

At December 31, 2005, there were approximately
1,600,000 shares of common stock available for future grants under the 2004
Stock-Based Compensation Plan (“the Plan”). The Plan provides for the grant of
stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards and
performance awards to employees and non-employee directors. A committee of the
Board of Directors determines the terms and conditions of grants, except that
the exercise price of certain options cannot be less than 100% of the fair
market value of the stock on the date of grant. Vesting requirements vary by
option grant. Shares for all stock-based compensation are issued from stock
held in treasury.

A
summary of changes in outstanding options is as follows:

The weighted average fair value per option granted in
2005, 2004 and 2003 using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model was $7.36,
$5.19 and $1.94, respectively. The following weighted average assumptions were
used to compute the fair value of the option grants in 2005, 2004 and 2003: a
risk-free interest rate of 4.1%, 3.9% and 1.9%, respectively; stock volatility
of 27.9%, 27.7% and 29.1%, respectively; and dividend yields of 1.7%, 2.2% and
3.2%, respectively. Stock volatility is estimated based on historical data as
well as any expected future trends. Vesting occurs over a period of between one
and four years based on the


specific grant. Expected
lives, which are based on prior experience, averaged 6 years for options
granted in 2005 and 2004 and 3 years for options granted in 2003 under the key
management employee plan.

Compensation cost for stock options of $1,900 was
recorded for the year ended December 31, 2005. For the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003, the intrinsic value of options exercised was $8,200,
$5,400 and $500, respectively. The fair value of options vested during those
same periods was $1,900, $2,100 and $1,500, respectively.

Under our management incentive plan, participants are
paid bonuses on the attainment of certain financial goals. Participants in the
management incentive plan may elect to receive their bonuses in either cash or
shares of our common stock. Executive officers are required to receive 25% of
the value of their bonus, after certain adjustments for taxes payable, in
shares of our common stock at current fair market value. Bonus participants are
given a restricted stock award equal to one share for each four shares of
common stock issued with bonus awards. The restricted stock awards vest at the
end of four years provided that the participant has not made a disqualifying
disposition of their shares. Restricted stock award grants were 6,900 shares,
14,600 shares and 8,600 shares in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Restricted stock forfeitures of 1,100 shares, 800
shares and 2,400 shares occurred in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period based on the fair
market value of common stock on the award date: $25.57 per share granted in
2005, $18.25 per share granted in 2004 and $9.67 per share granted in 2003.

In addition to stock options, we grant performance
vesting restricted share awards (“PVR share awards”) under the 2004 Stock-Based
Compensation Plan. Recipients of PVR share awards have the right to receive a
certain number of shares of common stock dependent on the achievement of
certain performance targets involving annual growth rates on revenue and return
on invested capital for specified performance periods. At December 31,
2005, grants covering 314,437 PVR share awards are reserved for issuance, which
vest over three annual performance periods through 2007. This number is based
on an expected 100% achievement of the performance targets. The number of share
awards actually issued will vary depending on the achievement of results for
each performance period. The fair value of PVR shares is determined at the
grant date and is generally recognized as an expense over the performance
period. Total compensation cost related to nonvested PVR shares to be
recognized over the next two years is $3,400 at December 31, 2005 based on
the estimated probability of achieving the performance targets. During 2005 and
2004, pretax compensation expense for all PVR share awards of $3,700 and
$5,100, respectively, was recorded.

There was approximately $7,100 of compensation cost related to nonvested
awards which had not yet been recognized as of December 31, 2005. The
weighted average period over which these costs are to be recognized is 1.8
years.

During 2004, we
accelerated the vesting dates for options held by employees of the drug
delivery business resulting in a $600 charge recorded in discontinued
operations.

Note
20:

Commitments and Contingencies

At December 31, 2005, we were obligated under
various operating lease agreements with terms ranging from one month to 20
years. Net rental expense in 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $9,800, $7,000 and $6,700,
respectively, and is net of sublease income of $700 for each year.


At December 31,
2005, future minimum rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases
were:

At December 31, 2005, outstanding unconditional
contractual commitments for the purchase of raw materials and utilities
amounted to $3,700, of which, $3,600 is due to be paid in 2006.

We have accrued the estimated cost of environmental
compliance expenses related to soil or ground water contamination at current
and former manufacturing facilities. We believe the accrued liability of $1,900
at December 31, 2005 is sufficient to cover the future costs of these
remedial actions, including the expected demolition and environmental cleanup
at our former Kinston, North Carolina site. The accrued liability at December 31,
2004 was $2,100. The facilities being addressed are as follows: 1) former
Technical Center facility in Phoenixville, Pa.; 2) former plastics
manufacturing facility in Wayne, N.J.; 3) current operating plant in St.
Petersburg, Fla.; and 4) former Kinston, N.C. facility, which was destroyed by
fire in January 2003.

We have letters of credit totaling $5,200 supporting
the reimbursement of workers’ compensation and other claims paid on our behalf
by insurance carriers and to guarantee equipment leases in Ireland. Our accrual
for insurance obligations was $2,300 at December 31, 2005.

On February 2, 2006, we settled a lawsuit filed
in connection with the January 2003 explosion and related fire at our
Kinston, N.C. plant. Our monetary contribution was limited to the balance of
our deductibles under applicable insurance policies, all of which has been
previously recorded in our financial statements. The settlement concludes all
litigation related to the Kinston accident in which we have been named a
defendant.

In regards to the same
incident, we continue to be a party, but not a defendant, in a lawsuit brought
by injured workers against a number of our third-party suppliers. We believe
exposure in that case is limited to amounts we and our workers’ compensation
insurance carrier would otherwise be entitled to receive by way of subrogation
from the plaintiffs.

Note 21:

New Accounting
Standards

In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47,
“Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an Interpretation of
FASB Statement No. 143” (FIN 47). Under FIN 47, an entity is required to
recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. The
adoption of FIN 47 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial
statements.

In May 2005, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 154,
“Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20,
Accounting Changes and FASB Statement No. 3” (FAS 154). FAS 154 provides
guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error
corrections. It establishes, unless impracticable, retrospective application as
the required method for reporting a change in accounting principle in the
absence of explicit transition requirements specific to the


newly adopted accounting
principle. FAS 154 also provides guidance for determining whether retrospective
application of a change in accounting principle is impracticable and for
reporting a change when retrospective application is impracticable. The
provisions of FAS 154 are effective for accounting changes and corrections of
errors made in fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2005.

In August 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff
Position No. FAS 123(R)-1, “Classification and Measurement of
Freestanding Financial Instruments Originally Issued in Exchange for Employee
Services under FASB Statement No. 123(R)” (FSP No. FAS 123(R)-1).
The FSP defers the requirement of FAS 123(R) that a freestanding
financial instrument originally subject to Statement 123(R) becomes
subject to the recognition and measurement requirements of other applicable
generally accepted accounting principles when the rights conveyed by the
instrument to the holder are no longer dependent on the holder being an
employee of the entity. The adoption of FAS 123(R)-1 did not have a
material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In October 2005, FASB issued FASB Staff Position
(FSP) No. FAS 123(R)-2, “Practical Accommodation to the Application
of Grant Date as Defined in FASB Statement No. 123(R)” (FSP No. FAS
123(R)-2). Assuming all other criteria of the grant date definition have
been met, grant date is the date the award is approved in accordance with an
entity’s corporate governance provisions, provided the award is a unilateral
grant, whereby the recipient cannot negotiate the key terms and award
conditions. As well, the key terms and conditions are expected to be
communicated to the recipient within a relatively short time from the date of
approval. An entity that adopted Statement 123(R) prior to the issuance of
this FSP and did not apply the provisions of this FSP shall apply the guidance
in the FSP to the first reporting period after the date the FSP was posted to
the FASB website. The adoption of FSP No. FAS 123(R)-2 did not have
a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In November 2005,
FASB issued FSP No. FAS 123(R)-3, “Transition Election Related to
Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards” (FSP No. FAS
123(R)-3). This FSP provides a practical transition election related to
accounting for the tax effects of share-based payment awards to employees, as
an alternative to the transition guidance for the additional paid in capital
pool in paragraph 81 of Statement 123 (R). The guidance in this FSP
is effective on November 10, 2005. We have one year from the effective date of
this FSP to evaluate our available transition alternatives and make our
one-time election. We will evaluate this guidance, but do not expect a material
impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Note
22:

Subsequent Event—Senior Notes

We have outstanding $100,000 of 6.81% senior notes
maturing April 8, 2009. On January 25, 2006, we notified the
noteholders of our intention to prepay the notes effective February 27,
2006. As required by the note purchase agreement, we incurred costs of
approximately $6,000 ($0.12 per diluted share) in connection with the
prepayment.

We financed the prepayment by issuing

€

81,500
(approximately $100,000) of new senior unsecured notes having a weighted
average maturity of just over nine years at a weighted average interest rate of
4.34%, before costs. The lower-interest notes are expected to reduce annual
pre-tax financing costs by approximately $2,500. We will account for the
Euro-denominated debt as a hedge of our investment in our European operations.

In addition, we have amended the terms of the
revolving credit agreement, including an extension of the maturity date to February 2011
and a reduction of the interest rate spreads applicable to amounts borrowed
under the agreement.


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of

West Pharmaceutical Service, Inc.

We have completed
integrated audits of West Pharmaceutical Service, Inc.’s consolidated
financial statements as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and of its internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 and an audit of
its consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2003 in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Our opinions, based on
our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule

In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15 (a) (1), present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of West Pharmaceutical
Service, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule appearing under Item 15 (a) (2) presents fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These
financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of
the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of
financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 1 to
the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of
accounting for stock based compensation as of January 1, 2005.

Internal control
over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment,
included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,
that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2005 based on criteria established in

Internal Control - Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is
fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore,
in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based
on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management’s assessment
and on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over
financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting
includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such
other procedures as we


consider necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

As
described in the Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,
management has excluded Tech Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries from its
assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005 because they were acquired by the Company in a purchase business
combination during 2005. We have also excluded the subsidiary, Tech Group, Inc.,
from our audit of internal control over financial reporting. Tech Group, Inc.
is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company who accounted for approximately
14.1% of total revenues in the consolidated financial statements for the year
ended December 21, 2005. Assets excluded from the assessment of internal
control were approximately 11.4% of consolidated assets as of December 31,
2005.


Quarterly
Operating and Per Share Data (Unaudited)

Per common share
amounts for the quarters and full years have each been calculated separately.
Accordingly, quarterly amounts may not add to the full year amounts because of
differences in the average common shares outstanding during each period and,
with regard to diluted per common share amounts only, because of the inclusion
of the effect of potentially dilutive securities only in the periods in which
such effect would have been dilutive.

·

Full
year 2005 results include incremental tax expense associated with the
repatriation of foreign sourced income under the American Jobs Creation Act of
2004. See Note “Income Taxes.”

·

Full
year 2005 results include a restructuring credit associated with the 2004
closure of our plastic device plant located in the U.K. See Note “Restructuring
and Impairment Charges.”

·

Full
year 2005 results include stock-based compensation due to the adoption of FAS
123R. See Note “Stock Option and Award Plans”.

·

Full
year 2005 results include acquisitions completed during the current year. See
Note “Acquisitions”.


·

Full
year 2004 and 2003 results include costs associated with the Kinston plant
explosion. See Note “Kinston.”

·

Full
year 2004 results include the effects of the utilization of foreign tax credits
and a change in French tax legislation. See Note “Income Taxes.”

·

First
quarter 2004 results include the effect of the gain on the property sale by our
Mexican affiliate. See Note “Affiliated Companies.”

·

Fourth
quarter 2004 results include the effect of the closure of our plastic device
plant located in the U.K. See Note “Restructuring and Impairment Charges.”

·

Fourth
quarter 2003 results include the effect of the gain from the insurance
settlement from the Kinston plant explosion. See Note “Kinston.”

·

Fourth quarter 2003 results
include the effect of the impairment of our plastic device plant. See Note “Restructuring
and Impairment Charges.”

ITEM 9.

CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES.

Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

An evaluation was
performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), as of the end of the period covered by
this annual report on Form 10-K. Based on this evaluation, our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31,
2005 our disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

Management’s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The management of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
(the “Company”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed under the supervision of our principal
executive and principal financial officer to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our
financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.

Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 based on the
framework established in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework” issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based
on this assessment, management has determined that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate.


The Company acquired Tech Group Inc. in May 2005,
and has excluded the acquired company from its assessment of and conclusion on
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. This unit
accounted for approximately 14.1% of total revenues in our consolidated
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. Assets excluded
from the assessment of internal control were approximately 11.4% of
consolidated total assets as of December 31, 2005.

Our management’s
assessment of effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2005 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered pubic accounting firm, as stated in their report, which
is included herein.

Changes in Internal Controls

There were no changes in
our internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter
ended December 31, 2005 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely
to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.

OTHER
INFORMATION

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS
AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS.

Information about our Directors is incorporated by
reference from the discussion under

Proposal #1: Election of
Directors

of our 2006 Proxy Statement. Information about compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated by reference
from the discussion under the heading

Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance

in our 2006 Proxy Statement.

Information about our
Audit Committee, including the members of the committee, and our Audit
Committee financial experts, is incorporated by reference from the discussion
under the headings

Governance of the Company—Audit
Committee

and

Governance of the Company—Information
about the Board and its Committees

in our 2006 Proxy Statement.
Information about the West Code of Business Conduct governing our employees,
including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal
Accounting Officer, and our Directors, is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading

Governance of the Company—Code
of Business Conduct

in our 2006 Proxy Statement. We intend to post
any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct on our
website, www.westpharma.com. The balance of the information required by this
item is contained in the discussion entitled

Executive
Officers of the Company

in Part I of this 2005 Form 10-K.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION.

Information about Director
and executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion
under the headings

Compensation of Directors

,

Executive Compensation, Summary Retirement Plan

and

Employment and Other Agreements

in our
2006 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.

SECURITIES
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.

Information required by
this item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings

Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers

and

Equity Compensation Plans

in our
2005 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

None.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES.

Information called for by this Item is incorporated by
reference from the discussions under the headings

Audit and
Non-Audit Fees

and

Audit Committee Policy on
Approval of Audit and Non-Audit Services

in our 2006 Proxy
Statement.


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

(a)

1. Financial Statements

The
following documents are included in Part II, Item 8:

(a)

2. Financial Statement
Schedules

Schedule
II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(1)

Includes accounts
receivable written off and translation adjustments.

All other schedules are omitted because they are
either not applicable, not required or because the information required is
contained in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.


(a)

3. Exhibits

An index of the
exhibits included in this Form 10-K Report or incorporated by
reference is contained on pages F-1 through F-6. Exhibit numbers
10.1 through 10.57 are management contracts or compensatory plans or
arrangements.

(b)

See subsection (a) 3.
above.

(c)

Financial Statements of
affiliates are omitted because they do not meet the tests of a significant
subsidiary at the 20% level.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

March 3, 2006


Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

*

By John R.
Gailey III pursuant to a power of attorney.


EXHIBIT INDEX


We agree to
furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of each instrument with respect to
issuances of long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries.

F-


F-


F-


F-


(1)

Management compensatory
plan.

(2)

We agree to furnish to
the SEC, upon request, a copy of each exhibit to this Share and Interest
Purchase Agreement.

(3)

Certain portions of this
exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request
submitted to the SEC.

F-

5