
10-K
file10k2001.txt
10 K 2001




                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K

                     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
                  15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001
                                ----------------
                          Commission File Number 1-8036
                                    ---------
                       WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC.
                     --------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Pennsylvania                               23-1210010
- ------------------------------------              -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S. Employer
  incorporation or organization)                 Identification Number)

 101 Gordon Drive, PO Box 645, Lionville, PA           19341-0645
 -------------------------------------------        ----------------
(Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code 610-594-2900
                                                     --------------
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

 Title of each class           Name of each exchange on which registered
- -----------------------        ------------------------------------------
Common Stock, par value               New York Stock Exchange
   $.25 per share

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:      None
                                                                      ----
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X . No .
                                      --- ---
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

As of March 26, 2002, the  Registrant had 14,419,590 shares of its Common Stock
outstanding.  The market value of Common  Stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant as of that date was $432,587,700.

Exhibit Index appears on pages F-1, F-2, F-3 and F-4.





                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                      ------------------------------------

Documents  incorporated  by reference:  1) portions of the  Registrant's  Annual
Report to  Shareholders  for the  Company's  2001 fiscal year (the "2001  Annual
Report to  Shareholders")  are  incorporated by reference in Parts I and II; and
(2)  portions  of  the  Registrant's  definitive  Proxy  Statement  (the  "Proxy
Statement") are incorporated by reference in Part III.



                                     PART 1

Item 1.  Business

West   Pharmaceutical   Services,   Inc.  (the  Company)   applies   value-added
technologies  to the  process of  bringing  new drug  therapies  and  healthcare
products to global markets. The Company's  technologies include drug formulation
research and development,  clinical  research and laboratory  services,  and the
design,  development,  and  manufacture of components and systems for dispensing
and delivering pharmaceutical, healthcare, and consumer products.

During 2001 the Company consolidated operations into two operating segments:

1) the  Pharmaceutical  Systems  segment  (consisting of four regional  business
units  serving  global  markets)  designs,   manufactures  and  sells  stoppers,
closures, medical device components and assemblies made from elastomers,  metal,
and plastics and provides contract  laboratory  services for testing  injectable
drug packaging.

2)  the  Drug  Delivery  Systems  segment  (consisting  of two  business  units)
identifies and develops drug delivery  systems for  biopharmaceutical  and other
drugs  to  improve  their  therapeutic   performance   and/or  their  method  of
administration.  This  segment also provides  clinical  research for Phase I, II
and III studies and clinical and marketing research services mostly for consumer
products organizations.

As of December 31, 2001, the Company and its subsidiaries had 3,960 employees.

The Company,  a  Pennsylvania  business  corporation,  was founded in 1923.  The
executive  offices of the Company are located at 101 Gordon  Drive,  PO Box 645,
Lionville,  Pennsylvania  19341-0645,  approximately 35 miles from Philadelphia.
The telephone number at the Company's executive offices is 610-594-2900. As used
in this Item, the term "Company" includes West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates.


                         Pharmaceutical Systems Segment
                           Principal Products/Services
                          ----------------------------


Pharmaceutical Stoppers
- -----------------------
The Company is the world's largest  independent  manufacturer of rubber stoppers
for sealing injectable drug vials and other pharmaceutical  containers.  Several
hundred  proprietary  rubber  formulations  are molded from  natural  rubber and
synthetic  elastomers into a variety of stopper sizes,  shapes,  and colors. The
stoppers  are used in  packaging  serums,  vaccines,  antibiotics,  anesthetics,
intravenous  solutions  and other drugs and solutions to assure the integrity of
these solutions during the product's approved shelf life.




Most stopper  formulations are specially  designed to be compatible with a given
drug so that  the drug  will  remain  safe and  effective  during  storage.  New
elastomeric  components  must be tested  with each  drug  solution  to show that
ingredients  do not leach  into the  customer's  product  or affect  the  drug's
potency, sterility,  effectiveness, color or clarity. The Company's laboratories
conduct  tests to  determine  the  compatibility  of its  rubber  stoppers  with
customers' drugs and, in the United States, file formulation  information in its
Drug Master File with the Food and Drug  Administration in support of customers'
new drug applications.

Rubber  stoppers are usually  washed,  sterilized  and subject to other  pre-use
processes by the customer or a third-party  before they are fitted on the filled
container.  The Company has  introduced a value-added  line of stoppers that are
pharmaceutically  pre-washed  and ready to be  sterilized,  eliminating  several
steps in customers' incoming processes. The Company is also developing a line of
pre-sterilized  stoppers that can be introduced directly into customers' sterile
drug-filling operations.

Metal Seals
- -----------
The Company also offers a broad line of aluminum seals in various sizes, shapes,
and  colors  that help its  customers  differentiate  and  distinguish  its drug
solutions. The seals are crimped onto glass or plastic pharmaceutical containers
to hold the rubber  stoppers  securely in place.  The top of the aluminum  seals
often  contains  tamper-evident  tabs or plastic  covers,  which must be removed
before the drug can be withdrawn.

Some aluminum  seals are sold with  specially  formulated  rubber or elastomeric
discs  pre-fitted  inside the seal.  These "lined" seals may be placed  directly
onto the  pharmaceutical  container,  thus  eliminating  the need for a separate
stopper.  In recent  years,  the Company has upgraded  production  processes for
metal seal manufacturing, clearly bringing them to state-of-the-art capability.

Other Products
- ---------------
Other products for the pharmaceutical industry include:

      *   Products used in the packaging of non-injectable  drugs such as rubber
          dropper   bulbs,    plastic    contraceptive   drug   packages,    and
          child-resistant and tamper-evident plastic closures,

      *   Plastic systems used for lyophilized drug reconstitution and delivery,
          which are molded and fabricated in a clean room environment,

      *   Plastic containers, bottles, and closures for the consumer and medical
          device and diagnostic markets,

      *   Elastomeric and plastic components for empty and pre-filled disposable
          syringes such as plungers, hubs, and needle covers,

      *   Blood-sampling  system components,  including vacuum tube stoppers and
          needle  valves,  and a number of specialized  elastomeric  and plastic
          components for blood-analyzing systems and other medical devices,

      *   Components for IV Sets, and

      *   Disposable infant nursers and individual nurser components.


The Company also makes closures for food and beverage processors, focusing its
efforts on multiple-piece closures that require high-speed assembly.

Services
- --------
In 1998, the Company  established  the contract  laboratory  services  business,
which provides testing services to analyze customers' drug product packaging and
its interaction  with drug product.  Services  offered include  extractables and
leachables  testing,  method  development and validation,  stability testing for
extractables   and   active   substances,   moisture   analysis   of   closures,
quantification  of closure  surface  silicone,  and other custom  services.  The
Company's laboratory complies with applicable Good Manufacturing  Practice (GMP)
standards,  is FDA  registered,  and is also approved for handling DEA type I-IV
products.

Product Development
- -------------------
The  Company  maintains  its own  laboratories  for testing  raw  materials  and
finished goods to assure conformity to customer  specifications and to safeguard
product  quality.  Laboratory  facilities  are also used for  development of new
products.  Engineering staffs are responsible for product and tooling design and
testing  and for  the  design  and  construction  of  processing  equipment.  In
addition, a corporate product development  department develops new packaging and
device concepts.  Approximately 95 professional  employees were engaged in these
activities in 2001.  Development and engineering  expenditures  for the creation
and application of new and improved device products and manufacturing  processes
were approximately $10.0 million in 2001, $9.6 million in 2000, and $9.3 million
in 1999, net of cost reimbursements by customers.


                         Drug Delivery Systems Segment
                         ------------------------------
Drug Delivery
- -------------
Since 1993, the Company has been developing  proprietary  drug delivery  systems
for various  drug and  biological  products  for which  alternative  methods and
routes of  administration  might  improve  therapeutic  performance  or the cost
effectiveness of the therapy. In furtherance of that effort, in 1998 the Company
completed the acquisition of DanBioSyst UK Ltd (DBS), a research and development
company  located in Nottingham,  England.  DBS was re-named West  Pharmaceutical
Services  Drug  Delivery  &  Clinical  Research  Center,  LTD.  in 1999  and its
operations   integrated  with  the  Company's   Lionville  based  drug  delivery
operations  to  form  a  new  operating  segment,  Drug  Delivery  Research  and
Development.

West Drug Delivery  engages in both  independent and  client-funded  research to
develop unique  delivery  technologies,  patenting  these where  possible,  and,
subject  to any rights  granted  or ceded in  connection  with  client  funding,
retains the rights to exploit the patented  technology.  West Drug  Delivery has
patents or patent  applications  covering a range of delivery  technologies  for
various routes of administration,  including nasal, oral, parenteral, pulmonary,
rectal and vaginal. West Drug Delivery then seeks to license the technologies to
pharmaceutical  companies  for use in  combination  with  their  drug  products.
Alternatively, West will develop unique versions of generic drug products, which
incorporate its proprietary delivery technologies, and then seek development and
marketing partners or licensees for the resulting  products.  West Drug Delivery
also  maintains  laboratory   capabilities  that  support  client  and  internal
development  projects.  Research  and  development  expenditures  for  the  drug
delivery  business unit were $7.8 million in 2001, $7.5 million in 2000 and $4.9
million in 1999.



In 2001, West Drug Delivery's efforts were focused on:  client-funded  projects;
on the further  development of proprietary  formulations  of the drugs morphine,
calcitonin,  insulin,  flu  vaccine,  and  leuprolide,  all using the  Company's
patented   chitosan-based   nasal  delivery  system  (ChiSysTM)  ;  and  on  the
development  of a proprietary  formulation  of budesonide (a steroid)  using the
Company's  TargitR system,  an orally  administered,  specially  coated,  starch
capsule system  designed to bypass normal  digestion and deliver the drug to the
colon for local and systemic effect.  The nasal morphine product was licensed to
a third party for further  development in 2000 and phase II clinical  trials for
nasal morphine were completed in 2001. The ChiSysTM technology was licensed to a
third party for delivery of a flu vaccine in 2001;  phase II clinical trials for
the nasal flu  vaccine  were also  completed  in 2001.  Phase I trials for nasal
leuprolide, nasal insulin, and TargetR budesonide were also completed in 2001.

Clinical Services
- -----------------
The  Company  entered  into the  clinical  services  market  with its April 1999
acquisition  of  the  Clinical  Services  division  of  Collaborative   Clinical
Research, Inc. Clinical Services operates two distinct divisions and performs as
a business  unit within the Drug  Delivery  Systems  segment.  The two  business
divisions,  which are  described  more fully  below,  are: a Phase  I-through-IV
Clinical Trial  research  facility (the "GFI Research  Center");  and a clinical
research  organization  (CRO) that  conducts  marketing  and  clinical  research
studies   for   customers'    prescription   drugs,   consumer   products,   and
over-the-counter (OTC) switch projects.

West's GFI Research Center  conducts Phase I through Phase IV clinical  research
trials and provides other clinical research services including device and actual
use studies at its 80-bed unit located in Evansville,  Indiana. Phase I research
is  substantially  more  demanding  than other phases of the  clinical  research
process  because  healthy  volunteers  must  typically  be  sequestered  for the
duration of the study.  Phase II-IV studies are frequently more specialized with
respect to  therapeutic  patient  populations  required.  The diversity of GFI's
service  offering  has aided  the  development  of both  their  recruitment  and
clinical operations capabilities.

West Consumer  Healthcare Research (WCHR) is a niche CRO serving the biotech and
pharmaceutical  industries.  WCHR conducts a unique blend of marketing  research
and clinical  research "under one roof." These services include Phase III, Phase
IV, Rx-to-OTC switch work and specialty work in naturalistic  studies  including
label and package insert comprehension, consumer self-selection, self-diagnosis,
and actual  use  studies.  In  addition,  WCHR  performs  claims  substantiation
studies,  experience  trials,  volumetric  forecasting  on IND drugs,  and other
unique and customized  research solutions that include clinical and/or marketing
research  objectives.  The  Company  has  access  to market  research  sites and
clinical  sites  across  the  United  States  and  utilizes  a  central  medical
operations  group  comprised of nurses and  physicians  for many of its studies.

Clinical Services' contracts provide a fixed price for each component or service
delivered.  The ultimate  contract value depends on such variables as the number
of research sites selected,  the number of patients  enrolled and other services
required by sponsors.  These  contracts range in duration from several months up
to two years.  As services are performed over the life of the contract,  revenue
is earned under the percentage-of-completion method utilizing units of delivery.
Costs  associated with contract  revenue are recognized as incurred.  Cash flows

vary with each  contract,  although  generally a portion of the  contract fee is
paid at the time the  trial  begins,  with the  balance  paid as  pre-determined
contract  milestones  are  satisfied.  Pre-payments  received  are recorded as a
liability under "deferred revenue" until work has been completed and revenue has
been earned. Generally,  sponsors may terminate a contract with the Company with
or without  cause.  In the event of  termination,  the  Company is  entitled  to
payment  for all work  performed  through  the  termination  date and for  costs
associated with termination of the study.

                              Recent Developments
                              -------------------

The  Company has taken  steps to expand its  product  offerings  and improve the
competitiveness of each of its operating segments.

In November  2001,  the Company  sold all the  operating  assets of its contract
manufacturing and packaging business unit to DPT Lakewood, Inc., an affiliate of
DPT  Laboratories,  Ltd. and DFB  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc. The sales price totaled
$29.8 million,  consisting of $28 million of cash and a $1.8 million note due in
2003. The sale resulted in a net loss of $25.2 million,  or $1.76 per share. The
balance of the proceeds received was used to repay  outstanding debt.  Following
the sale, the Company announced that it had consolidated its operations into two
segments: Pharmaceutical Systems and Drug Delivery Systems.

In 2001, the Company recorded a net  restructuring  charge of $2.9 million.  The
charge  consisted  of  a  restructuring   provision  of  $4.9  million  relating
principally  to  the  termination  of  approximately  25  mid-and  senior  level
management  positions,  and a $2.0 million  adjustment  related to the sale of a
Puerto Rico plastic  device  manufacturing  facility held for sale from the 2000
restructuring program.

In 2000, the Company  recorded a  restructuring  charge of $15.0  million.  This
charge  covered  a $9.2  million  goodwill  write-down  to the  site  management
organization of the clinical services business unit, a $2.7 million reduction to
the estimated net realizable  value of a plastic device  manufacturing  plant in
Puerto Rico, and $3.1 million of accrued severance,  benefit, and asset disposal
costs.

Also, in 2000,  the Company  recorded $5.8 million of  restructuring  charges in
connection with its contract manufacturing and packaging operations. This charge
consisted of a $5.0 million  reduction to the estimated net realizable  value of
assets to be sold and $0.8  million of  accrued  severance,  benefit,  and asset
disposal costs. These costs are recorded as part of discontinued operations.

In 1999,  the Company  changed its  business  plan with  respect to its plastics
strategy concerning future market demands and total capacity requirements.  As a
result,  the  Company  reversed  a  portion  of its 1996  restructuring  reserve
pertaining to its Puerto Rico facility and wrote off the assets  associated with
a proprietary plastic product line that had not gained market acceptance.


                                  Order Backlog
                                 --------------

Pharmaceutical  Systems orders on hand at December 31, 2001, were  approximately
$105 million,  compared with  approximately $92 million at the end of 2000. Firm
orders on hand include those placed by customers for  manufacture  over a period
of time according to a customer's schedule or upon confirmation by the customer.
The Company also has  contractual  arrangements  with a number of its customers,
and products  covered by these  contracts are included in the Company's  backlog
only as orders are received from those customers.



Drug  Delivery  Systems  segment  backlog,  which is  primarily  related  to the
clinical  services  business  unit,  consists  of  signed  contracts  yet to be
completed.  Contracts included in backlog are subject to termination or delay at
any time and therefore the backlog is not necessarily a meaningful  predictor of
future  results.  Delayed  contracts  remain  in  the  Company's  backlog  until
cancelled.  As of December 31, 2001, the Drug Delivery  Systems  segment backlog
was $4.1 million; at December 31, 2000 the backlog was $6.5 million.

                                 Raw Materials
                                 --------------

The Company  uses three basic raw  materials  in the  manufacture  of its device
products:  elastomers,  aluminum,  and plastic.  The Company has been  receiving
adequate supplies of raw materials to meet its production needs, and it foresees
no significant availability problems in the near future.

The Company is  pursuing a supply  chain  management  strategy,  which  involves
purchasing from  integrated  suppliers that control their own sources of supply.
This  strategy  has reduced  the number of raw  material  suppliers  used by the
Company.  In some cases,  the Company will purchase raw materials  from a single
source to assure  quality and reduce costs.  This  strategy  increases the risks
that the Company's  supply lines may be  interrupted  in the event of a supplier
production problem. These risks are managed by selecting suppliers with multiple
manufacturing sites, rigid quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and
other methods of maintaining supply in case of interruption in production.

                              Patents and Licenses
                              ---------------------

The  Company's  device  products  patents  and  trademarks  have been  useful in
establishing  the  Company's  market  share and in the  growth of the  Company's
manufactured  device  product  business  and may  continue to be of value in the
future,  especially in view of the Company's  continuing  development of its own
proprietary  products.  Nevertheless,  the Company does not consider its current
manufactured device product business or its earnings to be materially  dependent
upon any single patent or trademark.

The Company  believes its drug delivery  development  capabilities  will play an
increasingly important role in the future. The drug delivery business unit has a
growing portfolio of patented  technologies,  which is critical to the Company's
success because a significant  amount of future income is expected to be derived
from licensing this technology to customers.

                                 Major Customers
                                -----------------

The Company provides  manufactured device components and/or contract services to
major   pharmaceutical,   biotechnology  and  hospital   supply/medical   device
companies,  many of  which  have  several  divisions  with  separate  purchasing
responsibilities.  The  Company  also  provides  clinical  research  and  market
research  services  to full  service  contract  research  and  consumer  product
organizations.  The Company  distributes  its products  and  services  primarily
through its own sales force but also uses  regional  distributors  in the United
States and in the Asia/Pacific region.



Becton  Dickinson  and Company  ("BD")  accounted for  approximately  13% of the
Company's 2001  consolidated  net sales.  The principal  products sold to BD are
synthetic  rubber,  natural  rubber,  metal and plastic  components used in BD's
disposable and pre-filled syringes and blood sampling and analysis devices.  The
Company expects to continue as a major BD supplier.

Excluding BD, the next ten largest customers  accounted for approximately 30% of
the  Company's  consolidated  net  sales in 2001  but no one of these  customers
accounted for more than 4% of 2001 consolidated net sales.

                                   Competition
                                   ------------

The Company competes with several  companies,  some of which are larger than the
Company,  across its major  Pharmaceutical  Systems  product lines. In addition,
many  companies  worldwide  compete  with the  Company for  business  related to
specific product lines.  However,  the Company believes that it supplies a major
portion of the U.S. market  requirements for pharmaceutical  elastomer and metal
packaging  components  and has a  significant  share of the European  market for
these components.

Because of the special nature of these products,  competition is based primarily
on product design and performance,  although total cost is becoming increasingly
more important as pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost control
programs across their entire operations.  Competitors often compete on the basis
of  price.  The  Company   differentiates  itself  from  its  competition  as  a
"full-service"  supplier that is able to provide pre-sale  compatibility studies
and other services and  sophisticated  post- sale technical  support on a global
basis.

The  Company  competes  against  numerous  competitors  in the field of  plastic
closures  for consumer  products,  many of which are larger than the Company and
command significant market shares. The Company differentiates itself through its
expertise in high-speed assembly of multiple-piece closure systems.

The clinical  research  industry is highly  fragmented  and comprised of several
large,  full-service Contract Research Organizations (CROs), many small CROs and
limited services  providers.  The major  competitors in the industry include the
research departments of pharmaceutical companies and CROs.

Many  companies   provide   proprietary   drug  delivery   technologies  to  the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets.  However, unlike West, the majority of
these companies are focused on a single route of drug  administration,  and very
few have capabilities  necessary to take drug products through all stages of the
development process and commercial manufacture. The three largest companies, the
market leaders, have multiple-delivery technologies, but their strong franchises
are  in  oral,   controlled-release   delivery  systems.  West's  drug  delivery
technologies,  none of which is currently in commercial production,  are in less
competitive segments that do not compete with the market leaders.



                            Environmental Regulations
                            -------------------------

The  Company  does  not  believe  that it will  have any  material  expenditures
relating  to  environmental  matters  other  than  those  discussed  in the Note
"Commitments and Contingencies" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of
the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated herein by reference.

                                  International
                                 ---------------

The Note "Affiliated  Companies" and the Note "Segment Information" of the Notes
to Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders
are incorporated herein by reference.

The  Company  believes  that  its  international  business  does not  involve  a
substantially  greater  business  risk  than  its  domestic  business.  Although
financial  crises have been evident at various  times during recent years in the
Asia/Pacific  region  and in major  markets in South  America  and have at times
resulted in a decline in demand for the  Company's  products  in these  regions,
direct  sales  to  customers  in  these  markets  have   historically  not  been
significant.  In 2001,  such  sales  represented  less than 11% of  consolidated
sales.

The Company's  financial  condition and results are impacted by  fluctuations in
exchange-rate  markets (See Notes "Summary of Significant  Accounting Policies -
Foreign  Currency   Translation"  and  "Other  Income  (Expense)"  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the 2001 Annual  Report to  Shareholders,
incorporated herein by reference).  Hedging by the Company of these exposures is
discussed in the Note "Summary of  Significant  Accounting  Policies - Financial
Instruments"   and  in  the  Note  "Financial   Instruments"  of  the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the 2001 Annual  Report to  Shareholders,
incorporated herein by reference.





Item 2.  Properties
         -----------

In the  Pharmaceutical  Systems operating  segment,  the Company maintains eight
manufacturing  plants and two mold and die  production  facilities in the United
States,  and a  total  of  eight  manufacturing  plants  and  two  mold  and die
production  facilities  in  Germany,   England,   France,  Denmark,  Brazil  and
Singapore.   Contract  laboratory  services  are  provided  from  the  Company's
Lionville, Pennsylvania facility.

In the Drug  Delivery  Services  operating  segment,  the Company  conducts drug
delivery  research and development in a leased  facility  located in Nottingham,
England.  Clinical research services are provided by West Evansville from leased
space in Indianapolis, Indiana and Evansville, Indiana.

The Company's executive offices,  U.S. research and development center and pilot
plant are located in a leased  facility  at  Lionville,  Pennsylvania,  about 35
miles from Philadelphia. All other company facilities are used for manufacturing
and  distribution,  and  facilities in  Eschweiler,  Germany,  are also used for
development activities for device products.

The manufacturing  production  facilities of the Company are well maintained and
are operating generally on a two or three shift basis. The facilities in Germany
and France are both being expanded to meet increased customer demand.

The principal facilities in the United States are as follows:

- -    Approximately  671,000  square  feet of owned and  564,000  square  feet of
     leased  space in  Pennsylvania,  Florida,  Nebraska,  North  Carolina,  and
     Indiana.

The principal international facilities are as follows:

- -    Approximately  531,000 square feet of owned space and 91,000 square feet of
     leased space in Germany, England, Denmark, France, Spain, and Italy.

- -    Approximately 250,000 square feet of owned space in Brazil.

- -    Approximately 90,000 square feet of owned space in Singapore.

     Sales office  facilities in separate  locations are leased under short-term
arrangements.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.
         -----------------
None

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
         ---------------------------------------------------
None.






Item 4 (a) Executive Officers of the Registrant
           ------------------------------------

The executive officers of the Company at March 28, 2002 were as follows:


Name                       Age    Business Experience During Past Five Years
- ----                       ---    ----------------------------------------

Joseph E. Abbott           49     Vice President and Corporate Controller since
                                  March 2002 and Corporate Controller since
                                  December 2000.  Previously Director of
                                  Internal Audit.

Linda R. Altemus           50     Vice President and Chief Financial Officer;
                                  Vice President,  Finance and  Administration
                                  from June 2001 to March 2002; Chief
                                  Information  Officer from June 2000 to
                                  June 2001;  Vice President, Management
                                  Information Systems from March 1999
                                  to June 2000 and  Director  Information
                                  Systems from May 1997 to March 1999.

Michael A. Anderson        46     Vice President and Treasurer since June 2001;
                                  Vice President, Finance & Administration  for
                                  Drug Delivery Systems  from  November 1999 to
                                  June 2001; Vice President, Business
                                  Development from April 1997 to October 1999.

George R. Bennyhoff        58     Senior Vice President, Human Resources
                                  and Public Affairs.


Steven A. Ellers           51     Executive Vice President  since  June  2000;
                                  Senior  Vice President and Chief  Financial
                                  Officer  from  March 1998 to June 2000.
                                  Previously Group President.

John R. Gailey III         47     Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.







Name                       Age    Business Experience During Past Five Years
- ----                       ---    --------------------------------------

Herbert L. Hugill          54     President  of the  Americas,  Pharmaceutical
                                  Systems  Division since January 2002;
                                  President, Global Sales and Marketing from
                                  May 2001 until January 2002.  Division
                                  President, Clinical Services from November
                                  1999 until May 2001 and General  Manager of
                                  the Clinical  Services  Group from April 1999
                                  until  November 1999.  Previously Mr. Hugill
                                  served as Chief Operating  Officer of
                                  Collaborative Clinical Research, Inc.

William G. Little          59     Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
                                  Officer, President of the Company until
                                  September 1998.

Donald E. Morel, Jr.       44     President  and  Chief   Operating   Officer
                                  since  May  2001; Division  President, Drug
                                  Delivery  Systems from October 1999 to May
                                  2001;  Group President from April 1998 to
                                  October 1999.   Previously Corporate Vice
                                  President, Scientific Services.

Michael Myers              40     President, Drug Delivery Systems since
                                  December 2001. Previously Dr. Myers was
                                  Executive Vice President, Business Development
                                  at Flamel Technologies, Ltd., Washington, DC
                                  from 2000 to 2001, and former President,
                                  Pharmaceutical Division of Fuisz Technologies,
                                  Ltd., Chantilly,  Virginia  from 1995 to 2000.










                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
         ----------------------------------------------------------------------
The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the high
and low prices for the stock for each calendar  quarter in 2001 and 2000 were as
follows:



As of December 31, 2001,  the Company had 1,792  shareholders  of record.  There
were also 2,197  holders of shares  registered in nominee  names.  The Company's
common  stock paid a  quarterly  dividend of $.17 per share in each of the first
three quarters of 2000; $.18 per share in the fourth quarter of 2000 and each of
the first three  quarters of 2001;  and $.19 per share in the fourth  quarter of
2001.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.
          -----------------------
Information  with respect to the  Company's  net sales,  income from  continuing
operations,  (loss) income from discontinued  operations,  income per share from
continuing  operations  (basic and assuming  dilution),  (loss) income per share
from discontinued  operations  (basic and assuming  dilution) and dividends paid
per share is incorporated by reference to the line items  corresponding to those
categories under the heading  "Five-Year Summary - Summary of Operations" of the
2001 Annual Report to Shareholders. Information with respect to total assets and
total debt is incorporated by reference to the line items corresponding to those
categories under the heading "Five-Year  Summary - Year-End Financial  Position"
of the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
         and Results of Operations.
         ------------------------------------------------------------
The information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to the text
appearing  in the  "Financial  Review"  section  of the 2001  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk
         --------------------------------------------------------
The  information  called for by this Item is  incorporated  by  reference to the
Notes "Financial  Instruments" and "Summary of Significant  Accounting Policies"
of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  of the 2001 Annual  Report to
Shareholders.





Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
         ---------------------------------------------
The  information  called  for by  this  Item is  incorporated  by  reference  to
"Consolidated   Financial   Statements",   "Notes  to   Consolidated   Financial
Statements",  and "Quarterly  Operating and Per Share Data  (Unaudited)"  of the
2001 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
         Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
         -------------------------------------------------

None.


                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
          ---------------------------------------------------
Information  called for by this Item is  incorporated  by reference to "PROPOSAL
#1:  ELECTION OF  DIRECTORS"  and "STOCK  OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS" in the Proxy Statement.

Information  about executive  officers of the Company is set forth in Item 4 (a)
of this report.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.
          -----------------------
Information   called  for  by  this  Item  is   incorporated   by  reference  to
"COMPENSATION   OF  DIRECTORS  AND  NAMED   EXECUTIVE   OFFICERS";   and  "BOARD
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT ON EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION" contained in the Proxy
Statement.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
          --------------------------------------------------------------
Information  called for by this Item is  incorporated by reference to "STOCK
OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" contained in the Proxy Statement.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
          ----------------------------------------------
None



PART IV

Item 14.        Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on
                Form 8-K.
                -------------------------------------------------------


(a)1.
          The following report and consolidated  financial statements,  included
          in the 2001  Annual  Report to  Shareholders,  have been  incorporated
          herein by reference:

          Consolidated  Statements  of Income for the years ended  December  31,
          2001, 2000 and 1999

          Consolidated  Statements of Comprehensive  (Loss) Income for the years
          ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

          Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2001 and 2000

          Consolidated  Statements of  Shareholders'  Equity for the years ended
          December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
          2001, 2000 and 1999

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

          Report of Independent Accountants

(a)2.     Supplementary Financial Information

          Schedules are omitted  because they are either not  applicable,  not
          required or because the  information  required is  contained  in the
          consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

(a)3.     See Index to Exhibits on pages F-1, F-2, F-3 and F-4 of this Report.

(b)       Reports on Form 8-K

          Current  Report on Form 8-K filed on November 20, 2001  announcing the
          disposition of all assets of West  Pharmaceutical  Services  Lakewood,
          Inc., Charter Laboratories, Inc. and Paco Laboratories, Inc.

          Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  November 30, 2001 (date of earliest
          event  reported),  filed on December 17, 2001  including the unaudited
          pro forma  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet as of  September  30, 2001 and
          unaudited  pro forma  Consolidated  Statements  of Income for the year
          ended  December 31, 2000 and the nine months ended  September 30, 2001
          for  West  Pharmaceutical  Services,  Inc.  The  unaudited  pro  forma
          consolidated   financial   statements   reflect   the   sale  of  West
          Pharmaceutical Services Lakewood, Inc., Charter Laboratories, Inc. and
          Paco Laboratories, Inc.

(c)       The  exhibits  are listed in the Index to Exhibits on pages F-1,  F-2,
          F-3 and F-4 of this Report.

(d)       Financial  Statements  of affiliates  are omitted  because they do not
          meet the tests of a significant subsidiary at the 20% level.










                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC.
                                  (Registrant)

By /s/ Linda R. Altemus

- -----------------------------------------------
Linda R. Altemus
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

March 28, 2002
- -----------------------------------------------
Date





Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.










                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
Exhibit
Number

(3) (a)             Amended  and  Restated  Articles  of  Incorporation  of  the
                    Company through January 4, 1999 incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit  (3)(a) of the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                    for the year ended December 31, 1998 (File No. 1-8036).

 (3) (b)            Bylaws of the Company,  as amended through October 27, 1998,
                    incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3)(b) to the Company's
                    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998 (File No.
                    1-8036).

 (4)                Miscellaneous long term debt instruments and credit facility
                    agreements  of  the  Company,  under  which  the  underlying
                    authorized  debt is equal to less  than ten  percent  of the
                    total  assets  of the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries  on a
                    consolidated  basis,  may not be filed as  exhibits  to this
                    report  pursuant  to Section  (b) (4) (iii) A of Item 601 of
                    Reg S-K.  The Company  agrees to furnish to the  Commission,
                    upon request, copies of any such unfiled instruments   (File
                    No. 1-8036).

(4) (a)             Form of stock  certificate for common stock  incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit (4) (a) of the Company's  Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1998 (File No.
                    1-8036).

(4) (b)             Note Purchase  Agreement dated as of April 8, 1999 among the
                    Company and the insurance companies identified on a schedule
                    thereto,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)(b) of the
                    Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000
                    (File No. 1-8036).

(4) (c)             Credit  Agreement,  dated  as of July  26,  2000  among  the
                    Company, the banks identified on a schedule thereto, and PNC
                    Bank, N.A., as agent for the banks (the "Credit Agreement"),
                    incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  (4)  (c)  of  the
                    Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000
                    (File No. 1-8036).

(4) (c) (1)         First  Amendment  dated as of  September  14,  2000,  to the
                    Credit Agreement.

(4) (c) (2)         Second Amendment  dated as of  November  17,  2000,  to the
                    Credit Agreement.

(4) (c) (3)         Joinder and  Assumption  Agreement  dated as of February 28,
                    2001, with respect to the Credit Agreement.

(4) (c) (4)         Third Amendment dated as of February 28, 2001 to the Credit
                    Agreement.

(4) (c) (5)         Fourth Amendment dated as of July 13, 2001 to the Credit
                    Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10) (a) of
                    the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended September 30, 2001.

                                      F - 1

Exhibit
Number

(4) (c) (6)         Extension  Agreement  dated  as of  January  5,  2001 to the
                    Credit Agreement.

(9)                 None.

(10) (a)            Lease dated as of December 31, 1992 between Lion Associates,
                    L.P. and the Company, relating to the lease of the Company's
                    headquarters in Lionville, Pa., incorporated by reference to
                    the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (b)            First  Addendum to Lease  dated as of May 22,  1995  between
                    Lion  Associates,  L.P.  and the  Company,  incorporated  by
                    reference to Exhibit (10)(d) of the Company's  Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1995 (File No.
                    1- 8036).

(10) (c)            Long-Term   Incentive   Plan,  as  amended  March  2,  1993,
                    incorporated by reference to the Company's  Annual Report on
                    Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-
                    8036).

(10) (d)            Amendments to the Long Term Incentive Plan,  dated April 30,
                    1996, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (10)(a) of
                    the  Company's  Form 10Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996
                    (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (d) (1)        Amendment to the Long Term Incentive Plan, Effective October
                    30, 2001.

(10) (e)            1999  Non-Qualified  Stock  Option  Plan for  Non-  Employee
                    Directors,  effective as of April 27, 1999,  incorporated by
                    reference  Exhibit  (10)(c)  of to the  Company's  Quarterly
                    Report  on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,  1999
                    (File No. 1- 8036).

(10) (f)            Amendment No. 1 to 1999 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for
                    Non-Employee Directors, Effective October 30, 2001.

(10) (g)            Form  of  Second  Amended  and  Restated   Change-in-Control
                    Agreement  between the Company and certain of its  executive
                    officers  dated  as  of  March  25,  2000,  incorporated  by
                    reference  to  Exhibit(10)(b)  of  the  Company's  Quarterly
                    Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March 31,  2000
                    (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (g) (1)        Form  of  Amendment  No.1 to  Second  Amended  and  Restated
                    Change- in-Control Agreement dated as of May 1, 2001 between
                    the Company and certain of its executive officers.

(10) (h)            Schedule of agreements with executive officers.

(10) (i)            Supplemental  Employees'  Retirement  Plan,  incorporated by
                    reference to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for
                    the year ended December 31, 1989 (File No. 1-8036).

                                      F - 2


Exhibit
Number

(10) (j)            Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental  Employees' Retirement Plan,
                    incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit   (10)(l)  of  the
                    Company's  Annual  Report  on Form  10-K for the year  ended
                    December 31, 1995 (File No. 1- 8036).

(10) (k)            Amendment No. 2 to Supplemental  Employees' Retirement Plan,
                    incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit   (10)(c)  of  the
                    Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
                    September 30, 1995 (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (l)            Amended and Restated Employment  Agreement dated as of March
                    25,  2000   between  the  Company  and  William  G.  Little,
                    incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit   (10)(a)  of  the
                    Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                    ended March 31, 2000 (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (l) (1)        Amendment No.1 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement,
                    dated as of May 1, 2001, between the Company and William G.
                    Little.

(10) (m)            Non-Qualified  Deferred  Compensation  Plan  for  Designated
                    Executive  Officers as amended and restated  effective April
                    1, 2000, incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(a) of the
                    Company's  Quarterly  Report  on Form  10-Q for the  quarter
                    ended June 30, 2000 (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (n)            Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, as amended
                    and  restated  effective  May  27,  1999,   incorporated  by
                    reference  to  Exhibit(10)(a)  of  the  Company's  Quarterly
                    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999
                    (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (o)            1999  Stock-Equivalents  Compensation  Plan for Non-Employee
                    Directors,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit (10)(a) of
                    the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended September 30, 1999 (File No. 1-8036).

(10)(p)             1998 Key Employee  Incentive  Compensation Plan, dated March
                    10, 1998,  incorporated  by reference to Exhibit  (10)(y) of
                    the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1997 (File No.1-8036).

(10)(q)             Asset Purchase Agreement,  dated as of November 15, 2001, by
                    and among DFB  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.,  DPT Lakewood,  Inc.,
                    West  Pharmaceutical  Services,  Inc.,  West  Pharmaceutical
                    Services Lakewood, Inc., Charter Laboratories, Inc. and Paco
                    Laboratories, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1
                    of the Company's  Current  Report on form 8-K dated November
                    20, 2001 (File No. 1-8036).

(10)(r)             Side  letter  dated  November  30,  2001,   incorporated  by
                    reference to Exhibit 2.2 of the Company's  Current Report on
                    Form 8-K dated November 20, 2001 (File No.1-8036).


                                      F - 3



Exhibit
Number

(10)(s)            Amendment No.1 to 1998 Key Employees Incentive Compensation
                   Plan, effective October 30, 2001.

(11)               Not Applicable.

(12)               Not Applicable.

(13)               Portions of 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders.

(16)               Not applicable.

(18)               None.

(21)               Subsidiaries of the Company.

(22)               None.

(23)               Consent of Independent Accountants.

(24)               Powers of Attorney.

(99)               None.










                                      F - 4






