
10-K



                                            This report contains      pages
                                            including the cover page       


                                    UNITED STATES
                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                Washington, D.C. 20549

                                      FORM 10-K

                       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
                     15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 
                                                ----------------
                            Commission File Number 1-8036
                                                  ---------
                              THE WEST COMPANY, INCORPORATED                
             
                             --------------------------------
                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


                Pennsylvania                              23-1210010       
          ------------------------------------          -------------------
          (State or other jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer 
           incorporation or organization)            Identification Number)


          101 Gordon Drive, PO Box 645, Lionville, PA         19341-0645  
          ---------------------------------------------    ----------------
          (Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)  

          Registrant's telephone number, including area code   610-594-2900  
                                                             --------------


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

            Title of each class      Name of each exchange on which registered
          -----------------------------------------------------------------
          Common Stock, par value    New York Stock Exchange               
              $.25 per share

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                         None
                                         ----
          Indicate by check mark  whether the registrant (1) has  filed all
          reports  required to  be  filed by  Section  13 or  15(d) of  the
          Securities Exchange  Act of 1934  during the preceding  12 months
          (or for such shorter  period that the registrant was  required to
          file  such  reports), and  (2) has  been  subject to  such filing
          requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X .  No    .
                                                   ---     ---
          Indicate  by  check  mark  if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
          pursuant to Item 405  of Regulation S-K is not  contained herein,
          
          
          and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
          in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
          reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
          Form 10-K._____   


          As of March 18, 1996, the Registrant had 16,640,880 shares of its
          Common  Stock outstanding.  The market value of Common Stock held
          by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of that date was 
          $393,140,790.

          Exhibit Index appears on pages F-1, F-2, F-3, and F-4.

          

                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                         ------------------------------------
          Documents   incorporated  by   reference:  1)  portions   of  the
          Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the Company's 1995
          fiscal  year  (the  "1995  Annual Report  to  Shareholders")  are
          incorporated by reference in Parts I  and II; and (2) portions of
          the   Registrant's   definitive  Proxy   Statement   (the  "Proxy
          Statement") are incorporated by reference in Part III.


           

                                        PART I

          Item l.   Business
                    --------

                                     The Company
                                     -----------
          The West Company, Incorporated is engaged in one industry segment
          - the design, development, manufacture and marketing of stoppers,
          closures,  containers, medical  device components  and assemblies
          made from  elastomers, metal  and  plastic that  meet the  unique
          filling,  sealing, dispensing  and delivery  needs of  the health
          care and  consumer products markets.   The Company  also provides
          contract packaging  and contract manufacturing  services to these
          markets in the United States  and Puerto Rico.  In addition,  the
          Company  manufactures related packaging machinery.  The Company's
          products include pharmaceutical  packaging components  (stoppers,
          seals,  caps,  containers  and  dropper  bulbs),  components  for
          medical devices  (parts for  syringes  and components  for  blood
          sampling and analysis devices  and for intravenous administration
          sets) and packaging components for consumer products.  

          The Company was incorporated  in 1923.  The executive  offices of
          the  Company are  located  at  101  Gordon  Drive,  PO  Box  645,
          Lionville, Pennsylvania   19341-0645, approximately 35 miles from
          Philadelphia.  The  telephone number at  the Company's  executive
          offices  is 610-594-2900.   As  used herein,  the term  "Company"
          includes  The West  Company,  Incorporated and  its  consolidated
          subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates.

               Principal Products -Pharmaceutical Packaging Components
               --------------------------------------------------------
          The Company manufactures a broad line of pharmaceutical  stoppers
          from natural  rubber  and  a  variety  of  synthetic  elastomers.
          Several hundred proprietary formulations of these substances  are
          molded  into a range of  stopper sizes used  in packaging serums,
          vaccines,  antibiotics,  anesthetics,  intravenous solutions  and
          other  drugs.    Most  formulae  are  specially  designed  to  be
          compatible with drugs so that the drugs will remain effective and
          unchanged during storage.  The Company's rubber laboratories  not
          only   develop   formulations,  but   also   conduct  preliminary
          compatibility tests  on customers' new  drugs, and in  the United
          States file  formulation  information  with  the  Food  and  Drug
          Administration to assist its customers' new drug applications.

          A broad line of  aluminum seals which securely hold  the stoppers
          on glass or  plastic containers is  manufactured by the  Company.
          The  Company also makes  a wide variety  of seals  lined with its
          specially formulated  rubber discs or other  materials.  Aluminum
          seals  include  closures  with  tamper-evident  tabs  or  plastic
          FlipOff^R buttons  which must  be removed before the  drug can  be
          withdrawn.   The Company  also  designs, manufactures  and  sells
          capping  machines for  use with  Company-designed metal  caps and
          seals and other packaging equipment.


          



          The  majority  of  pharmaceutical-packaging components  currently
          manufactured by  the Company  are  used in  packaging  injectable
          drugs.  Included in  this category of products are  syringe parts
          used by pharmaceutical  manufacturers to package  their drugs  in
          pre-filled unit-dose disposable syringes.  

          Products used in  the packaging of  non-injectable drugs  include
          rubber  dropper  bulbs, plastic  contraceptive drug  packages and
          child-resistant and tamper-evident plastic closures.  The Company
          also manufactures and  markets a range of Counter  Cap^R products.
          These devices are  plastic child resistant caps  that advance, or
          count,  every time  a  bottle of  oral  medication is  opened  or
          closed,    thereby    promoting   compliance    with   medication
          instructions.    In addition, the  Company manufactures injection
          blow-molded plastic bottles and containers for the pharmaceutical
          industry. 


          In January  1992, the  Company entered  into  a partnership  with
          Schott Corporation  to  continue  the  glass  vial,  ampoule  and
          cartridge manufacturing  operations formerly  carried  on by  the
          Company  at its Cleona, Pennsylvania site.  In September 1995 the
          Company sold its 40% partnership interest to Schott Corporation.

          In January 1994,  the Company acquired Senetics,  Inc., a Boulder
          Colorado company  specializing in the  development of  innovative
          closure  and delivery  systems for the  oral and  inhalation drug
          delivery markets.  The purchase price of the acquisition was
          $3 million.  Additional amounts are due  based on license fees or
          royalty income and/or direct  sales of the product  until January
          5, 1999.

          The Company's  German holding  company,  The West  Company  GmbH,
          acquired Schubert  Seals A/S,  a  Danish manufacturer  of  rubber
          components  and metal seals servicing the European pharmaceutical
          industry.  A 51% ownership interest was acquired in May  1994 and
          the remainder in December 1995.  The purchase price totaled DK 71
          million  ($12 million  at  exchange rates  at  the dates  of  the
          acquisitions).

                 Principal Products - Components for Medical Devices
                 ----------------------------------------------------
          The Company manufactures rubber and plastic components for  empty
          disposable syringes.  Typical  components include plungers,  hubs
          and  needle  covers  which  are  assembled  into  finished  empty
          disposable syringes by the Company's customers.

          Blood-sampling  system components  manufactured  by  the  Company
          include vacuum tube stoppers and needle valves.  The Company also
          makes a number  of specialized rubber and plastic  components for
          blood analyzing systems.


          

          Also  included  in  this category  are  Company-manufactured  and
          Company-purchased   components   assembled   into   drug-transfer
          devices.

          The Company also manufactures and sells disposable infant nursers
          and individual nurser components to infant formula manufacturers.


                                 Principal Products 
               Packaging Components for the Consumer Products Industries
          -----------------------------------------------------------------
          The  Company  manufactures  a  wide  range  of  plastic  threaded
          closures for the personal-care industry, mainly for such products
          as cosmetics and  toiletries. The Company  offers many  different
          standard  threaded closure designs in  a wide range  of sizes and
          colors, in  addition to closures designed  for specific customers
          and specialty packaging.   The Company  also manufactures  custom
          and stock plastic containers for personal-care products.

          The  Company manufactures  a  variety  of custom-designed  and/or
          proprietary   plastic closures, some of which are tamper evident,
          for food and beverage processors.


                                  Principal Services
                    Contract Packaging and Contract Manufacturing
                  --------------------------------------------------

          In  April   1995,  the  Company  purchased   Paco  Pharmaceutical
          Services, Inc.  ("Paco") for $52.4 million.  Paco with facilities
          in  Lakewood,  New Jersey  and  Canovanas,  Puerto Rico  provides
          contract  manufacturing  and   contract  packaging  services   to
          pharmaceutical and personal-care consumer companies.

          Paco's contract manufacturing services capability covers liquids,
          creams, ointments, powders and  semi-solids.  These manufacturing
          capabilities  are offered to pharmaceutical, personal health care
          and consumer products companies which supply the product  formula
          and  specifications  and  the  majority  of  the  necessary   raw
          materials.  Typical  products manufactured by  Paco are  headache
          and cold  medications, hair care products,  lotions, oral hygiene
          products  and  deodorants.    These  manufactured  products   are
          packaged  by Paco in bottles,  pouches or tubes  depending on the
          nature of the product and the customers' requirements.

          Paco also  manufactures  sterile ophthalmic  products  consisting
          primarily   of  contact  lens   solutions  for  major  ophthalmic
          companies and  manufactures and sells metaprotirenol,  a hospital
          unit-dose product used for inhalation therapy.

          Paco's contract-packaging  services include the  design, assembly
          and filling  of a  broad variety of  packages, including  blister
          packages (a plastic  bubble with a foil backing), bottles, tubes,
          laminated and other flexible pouches or strip packages,  aluminum


           

          and plastic liquid cup  containers, paperboard specialty packages
          and innovative tamper evident and child-resistant packages.   The
          type of  package depends  on the  requirements  of the  customer.
          Blister packaging or  bottles typically are used  for tablets and
          capsules  while aluminum  or plastic  cups, pouches,  bottles and
          tubes  are used for liquids,  creams, ointments and  powder.  The
          products  to be  inserted  in the  package  are supplied  by  the
          customer in  bulk.  They are  inserted in the package  of choice,
          labeled, boxed and shipped back to the customer.

                                    Order Backlog
                                    --------------
          Product orders  on hand at  December 31, 1995  were approximately
          $108 million, compared with approximately $99  million at the end
          of  1994.  Orders  on hand include those  placed by customers for
          manufacture over  a  period of  time  according to  a  customer's
          schedule or  upon  confirmation  by the  customer.    Orders  are
          generally considered  firm when goods are  manufactured or orders
          are  confirmed.   The Company  also has  contractual arrangements
          with a number  of its  customers, and products  covered by  these
          contracts are  included in the  Company's backlog only  as orders
          are received from those customers.

          Paco's  twelve-month  backlog  of  unfilled customer  orders  was
          approximately $20  million  at December  31,  1995.   Backlog  is
          defined  at Paco  as orders  written and  included  in production
          schedules during the next  12 months.  Such orders  generally may
          be cancelled by the customer without penalty.

                                    Raw Materials
                                    --------------
          The  Company uses three basic raw materials in the manufacture of
          its products: rubber, aluminum and plastic.  Approximately 25% of
          the   total  rubber  used  by  the  Company  is  natural  rubber,
          substantially  all  of which  is  imported  from  Sri  Lanka  and
          Malaysia.   Plastic resins and  aluminum are purchased  as needed
          from  several sources.   The Company has  been receiving adequate
          supplies  of raw materials to  meet its production  needs, and it
          foresees no significant availability problems in the near future.
          However, the political stability and seasonal  weather conditions
          of  countries  which supply  natural  rubber  are  significant
          factors in  the continuing supply  of this commodity.   Synthetic
          elastomers and plastics  currently purchased by  the Company  are
          made  from petroleum  derivatives, the  cost and  availability of
          which are dependent on the supply of petroleum feedstocks.  Also,
          the Company is dependent  on sole sources of supply  with respect
          to certain  other  raw  material  ingredients  in  older  product
          formulations.  In the event the supplier discontinues production,
          the Company  may be required  to stockpile these  materials until
          new formulations are qualified with customers.  

          The Company  is pursuing  a supply chain  management strategy  of
          aligning with  vertically integrated suppliers that control their
          own feedstocks.  This will result in reducing the number  of raw



          

          materials  suppliers.  In  some cases, the  Company will purchase
          raw materials from a single source.  This strategy is expected to
          assure quality,  secure supply  and reduce  costs.   However,  it
          could result in risks to the Company's supply  lines in the event
          of a supplier production problem.  These risks will be managed by
          selecting suppliers with backup plans and fail-safe mechanisms as
          part of their operating standards.

          Paco's  customers supply  the bulk  of raw  materials as  part of
          their contractual agreements.  Items that Paco  purchases for the
          accounts of customers include preformed plastic tubes and bottles
          and  other packaging materials.   Paco uses a  variety of vendors
          and is not dependent on any single source of supply.


                         Laboratory, Research and Engineering
                        -------------------------------------
          Pharmaceutical   packaging  components   must   meet  the   rigid
          specifications set by the pharmaceutical industry relating to the
          function of the package, material compatibility, and freedom from
          chemical and  physical contamination.   Rubber formulations  that
          involve  contact  with  injectable  pharmaceutical  products  are
          required to pass  shelf-life tests extending  from six months  to
          three years. New  rubber compounds  must be tested  to show  that
          they  do not  cause precipitation  in  the customer's  product or
          affect  its potency, sterility,  effectiveness, color or clarity.
          In  addition, in  the  United States  the  Food and  Drug  Admin-
          istration  may  review  and  inspect  certain  of  the  Company's
          facilities   for  adequacy   of   methods   and  procedures   and
          qualifications of technical personnel.

          The Company  maintains  its  own  laboratories  for  testing  raw
          materials and  finished goods  to  assure adherence  to  customer
          specifications and to safeguard the quality of its products.  The
          Company also  uses its  laboratory  facilities for  research  and
          development  of new  rubber and  thermoplastic compounds  and for
          testing and evaluating new products and materials.

          The Company  maintains engineering staffs responsible for product
          and  tooling   design  and  testing   and  for  the   design  and
          construction of  processing equipment.  In addition,  a corporate
          product  research department  develops  new packaging  and device
          concepts for identified market needs.

          Research,  development  and   engineering  expenditures  for  the
          creation  and  application  of  new  and  improved  products  and
          processes were approximately $12 million in 1995, $12 million  in
          1994  and   $11.4  million  in   1993.       Approximately  140
          professional employees were engaged full time in such activity in
          1995.


                                      Employees
                                      ----------

            


          As of December  31, 1995,  the Company and  its subsidiaries  had
          5,210 full-time equivalent employees.


                                 Patents and Licenses
                                ---------------------
          The patents owned by  the Company and its subsidiaries  have been
          valuable in establishing  the Company's market  share and in  the
          growth of the Company's business and may  continue to be of value
          in  the future, especially  in view  of the  Company's continuing
          development of  its own proprietary products.   Nevertheless, the
          Company  does not  consider its  business or  its earnings  to be
          materially dependent upon any single patent or patent right.

                                   Major Customers
                                  -----------------
          The    Company   serves   major   pharmaceutical   and   hospital
          supply/medical  device companies,  many  of  which  have  several
          divisions with separate purchasing responsibilities.  The Company
          also sells to many of the leading manufacturers of  personal-care
          products.  The Company distributes its products primarily through
          its  own sales force but  also uses regional  distributors in the
          United States and Asia/Pacific.

          Becton Dickinson  and Company ("B-D") accounted for approximately
          11% of the  Company's consolidated net sales during the Company's
          last  fiscal  year.   The  principal  products  sold  to B-D  are
          components  made  of  rubber,  metal and  plastic  used  in B-D's
          disposable syringes and blood sampling and analysis devices.  B-D
          has manufactured a  portion of  its own rubber  components for  a
          number of  years.  The Company expects to continue as a major B-D
          supplier.

          Excluding  B-D,  the next  ten  largest  customers accounted  for
          approximately 29%  of the  Company's  consolidated net  sales  in
          1995, and no one of these customers accounted for more than 6% of
          1995 consolidated net sales.

                                     Competition
                                     ------------
          The Company competes  with several companies,  some of which  are
          larger  than   the  Company,  across   its  major  pharmaceutical
          packaging component  and medical device component  product lines.
          In addition, many  companies worldwide compete  with the  Company
          for  business  related  to  specific  product  lines.    However,
          although there are no industry statistics available, the  Company
          believes  that  it  supplies  a  major  portion  of  the domestic
          industry  requirements   for  pharmaceutical  rubber   and  metal
          packaging components, and has a significant share of the European
          market  for these components.   Because of the  special nature of
          these products, competition is based primarily on product  design
          and performance,  although total cost is  becoming more important
          as  healthcare  markets  worldwide  face  increasing  government
          controls and pressure to control overall costs.

          


          The  Company is one of the leading domestic producers of threaded
          plastic closures, although there are numerous competitors in  the
          field of plastics.

          In addition, some of  the Company's customers also  manufacture a
          portion of their own plastic and rubber components. 

          The  contract packaging  and  manufacturing  service industry  is
          highly  competitive.   The  Company  believes  that its  contract
          packaging   services  subsidiary,   Paco,  competes   with  three
          significant  companies, only  one of which  is larger  than Paco.
          For contract  manufacturing  services, Paco  competes  with  four
          major competitors and several smaller regional companies; several
          of  these competitors  are larger  than Paco.   In  addition most
          domestic pharmaceutical companies maintain in-house manufacturing
          and packaging capabilities  and at times will offer  their excess
          capacity to manufacture  or package on  a contract basis  other
          manufacturers' products.   However, most large pharmaceutical and
          personal health care companies have traditionally  made extensive
          use of contract packagers and manufacturers during times of  peak
          demand,  during  the  introduction  of  a  new  product  and  for
          production of samples and special product promotions.

                   Government Regulations and Environmental Matters
                 ---------------------------------------------------
          The  Company  does not  believe that  it  will have  any material
          expenditures relating  to environmental matters other  than those
          discussed in the Note "Commitments and Contingencies" of Notes to
          Consolidated Financial Statements  of the 1995  Annual Report  to
          Shareholders, incorporated by reference herein.

          Paco's  contract  packaging   and  manufacturing  processes   and
          services are subject to the Good Manufacturing Practice standards
          applicable  to  the  pharmaceutical   industry.    The  Company's
          packaging and manufacturing services are subject to the  Federal,
          Food,  Drug  and  Cosmetic  Act,  the  Comprehensive  Drug  Abuse
          Prevention  and  Control  Act  of  1970  and  various  rules  and
          regulations of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the
          United States  Department of Treasury, the Bureau of Narcotics of
          the  United States  Department of  Justice, the  Drug Enforcement
          Agency and state narcotic regulatory agencies.  Paco is regularly
          subjected  to   testing  and  inspection  of   its  products  and
          facilities by representatives of various Federal agencies.

          In addition,  the Company comes  under the regulation  of various
          state and municipal  health agencies in  jurisdictions where  the
          Company has facilities. 

                                    International
                                   ---------------
          The Note "Affiliated  Companies" and the  Note "Industry  Segment
          and  Operations  by Geographic  Area"  of  Notes to  Consolidated
          Financial Statements of  the 1995 Annual  Report to  Shareholders
          are incorporated herein by reference. 


          

          The  Company believes  that its  international business  does not
          involve a  substantially greater business risk  than its domestic
          business.   However, economic and competitive factors vary in the
          countries in which the  Company's international subsidiaries  and
          affiliates do business.  The future growth and performance of the
          Company's international subsidiaries and affiliates are dependent
          on these  factors and  the political stability  of the  countries
          where they do business.

          The  Company's financial  condition and  results are  impacted by
          fluctuations in  exchange rate  markets  (See Notes  "Summary  of
          Significant  Accounting Policies -  "Foreign Currency" and "Other
          Income (Expense)"  of Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements
          of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated herein by
          reference).    Hedging  by  the  Company  of  these exposures  is
          discussed in  the Note  "Debt"  and in  the Note  "Fair Value  of
          Financial  Instruments"  of   Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial
          Statements   of   the   1995  Annual   Report   to  Shareholders,
          incorporated herein by reference.     


          Item 2.   Properties
                    -----------
          The Company maintains thirteen manufacturing plants and two  mold
          and  die   production  facilities  in  the   United  States,  two
          manufacturing  plants  in   Puerto  Rico,  and  a  total  of  ten
          manufacturing plants and one mold  and die production facility in
          Germany,   England,  France,   Denmark,  Argentina,   Brazil  and
          Singapore.  

          The Company's executive  offices, U.S.  research and  development
          center  and pilot  plant  are located  in  a leased  facility  at
          Lionville, Pennsylvania,  about 35 miles from  Philadelphia.  All
          other  Company   facilities  are   used  for   manufacturing  and
          distribution, and facilities in Eschweiler, Germany and  Boulder,
          Colorado are also used for research and development activities.  

          The manufacturing facilities of the  Company are well-maintained,
          are operating generally  on a  two or three-shift  basis and  are
          adequate for the Company's present needs.

          The  principal facilities in the United  States and Puerto Rico, 
          are as follows:

          -  Approximately  1,036,000  square  feet of  owned  and  996,000
             square  feet of  leased  space  in Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,
             Florida, Colorado, Nebraska, North Carolina and Puerto Rico. 


          The principal international facilities are as follows:

          -  Approximately 300,000 square feet  of owned space  and 145,000
             square  feet of leased space in Germany,  England, Denmark and
             France.  
          

          -  Approximately 99,000 square  feet of owned space in  Argentina
             and Brazil. 

          -  Approximately 92,000 square feet of owned space in Singapore.

            Of the aforementioned currently owned facilities, approximately
          464,000  square  feet  are  subject to  mortgages  to  secure the
          Company's real estate  mortgage notes.   See the  Note "Debt"  of
          Notes  to Consolidated  Financial Statements  of the  1995 Annual
          Report to Shareholders, which information is  incorporated herein
          by reference.


             Sales  office  facilities  in  separate  locations  are leased
          under short-term arrangements.

             The Company also holds  for sale 106,100 square feet of former
          manufacturing facility space in the United States.


          
          Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.
                    -----------------
          A. Wayne, New Jersey
             ------------------
          The  Company is a party  to an Administrative  Consent Order with
          the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (the "DEP")
          under  which  the Company  is required  to  submit and  perform a
          cleanup plan for property formerly owned by the Company in Wayne,
          New Jersey.  The present owner  of the property, who is currently
          in  bankruptcy, has  agreed pursuant  to a  litigation settlement
          between  him  and  the  Company  to  provide  a   Declaration  of
          Environmental  Restriction required  by the  DEP to  complete the
          cleanup  pursuant  to  the  Administrative Consent  Order.    The
          settlement agreement also provides that the Company will complete
          the ongoing monitoring requirements of the cleanup  plan and will
          complete the  closure of   a plastic waste  disposal area  on the
          property subject  to the DEP's  requirements for closure  under a
          revised closure plan.  The settlement agreement is pending before
          the Bankruptcy Court,  which must  approve it  before it  becomes
          effective.

          B. OCAP Litigation
             ---------------

          On March  30, 1992, OCAP Acquisition Corp.  ("OCAP") commenced an
          action in the  Supreme Court of the State of  New York, County of
          New York, against  Paco, certain  of its subsidiaries  and R.  P.
          Scherer  Corporation ("Scherer"),  Paco's former  parent company,
          (collectively, the  "defendants"), arising out of the termination
          of an  Asset  Purchase Agreement  dated  February 21,  1992  (the
          "Purchase Agreement")  between OCAP and the  defendants providing
          for the purchase of substantially all the assets of Paco.  On May
          15, 1992, OCAP served an amended verified complaint (the "Amended
          Complaint"), asserting  causes of  action for breach  of contract
          and  breach  of  the implied  covenant  of  good  faith and  fair
          dealing, arising out of defendants' March 25, 1992 termination of
          the  Purchase  Agreement, as  well  as two  additional  causes of
          action that  were subsequently dismissed  by order of  the court.
          The Amended Complaint  seeks $75 million in actual  damages, $100
          million  in punitive damages, as well as OCAP's attorney fees and
          other  litigation expenses,  costs and disbursements  incurred in
          bringing  this  action.    Scherer has  asserted  a  counterclaim
          against OCAP for breach of contract and breach of the covenant of
          good faith and fair dealing arising out of the termination of the
          Purchase Agreement.   Discovery  with respect  to the  action has
          been  completed and a trial date of  March 21, 1996 has been set.
          Based upon  the investigation conducted  by the Company  to date,
          the  Company believes that this action lacks merit and intends to
          defend  against it vigorously.  In the opinion of management, the
          ultimate  outcome of  this litigation  will not  have a  material
          adverse effect on the Company's business or financial condition.

          Scherer  has agreed  to  indemnify Paco  against any  liabilities
          (including fees  and expenses incurred  after March 31,  1992) it
          may have as a result of this litigation matter.

          

          See  the  Note  "Commitments   and  Contingencies"  of  Notes  to
          Consolidated Financial  Statements of  the 1995 Annual  Report to
          Shareholders,  which   information  is  incorporated   herein  by
          reference.
          


          Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
                    ---------------------------------------------------
          None.

          Item 4 (a) Executive Officers of the Registrant
                 -----------------------------------

          The  executive officers of the Company at  March 29, 1996 were as
          follows:
          

          1  Holds  position as corporate officer  elected by the  Board of
          Directors for one year term.
          

                                       PART II

          Item 5.   Market  for  Registrant's  Common  Equity  and  Related
                    Stockholder Matters
                    --------------------------------------------------
          The  Company's common  stock  is listed  on  the New  York  Stock
          Exchange  and the  high and  low  prices for  the stock  for each
          calendar quarter in 1995 and 1994 were as follows:
          
          As  of December 31, 1995,  the Company had  1,287 shareholders of
          record.   There were also  2,200 holders of  shares registered in
          nominee names.    The Company's  Common  Stock paid  a  quarterly
          dividend of $.11 per share in each of the first three quarters of
          1994; $.12  per share in the  fourth quarter of 1994  and each of
          the first  three quarters  of 1995;  and $.13  per  share in  the
          fourth quarter of 1995.  


          Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
                  -----------------------
          Information  with  respect to  the  Company's  net sales,  income
          (loss) from consolidated operations,  income (loss) before change
          in accounting  method, income (loss) before  change in accounting
          method  per share and dividends paid per share is incorporated by
          reference  to the  line items  corresponding to  those categories
          under the heading "Ten-Year  Summary - Summary of Operations"  of
          the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders.  Information with respect
          to  total assets and total  debt is incorporated  by reference to
          the  line  items  corresponding  to those  categories  under  the
          heading "Ten-Year Summary  - Year End Financial Position"  of the
          1995 Annual Report to Shareholders.

          Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis  Financial Condition
                  and Results of Operations.
                  ---------------------------------------------------------
          The  information  called for  by  this  Item is  incorporated  by
          reference to the text appearing in the "Financial Review" section
          of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders.
          
          Subsequent Event
          ----------------
          On March 28, 1996, the Company approved a plan to restructure its
          global manufacturing operations.  The plan provides for the closing
          or substantial downsizing of six manufacturing facilities and an
          approximate 5% reduction of its workforce.  As part of the plan
          the Company will withdraw from its machinery systems business,
          which accounted for less than 1% of 1995 net sales.  Implementation
          of  the restructuring  plan  will  begin  immediately  and be 
          substantially complete by the end of the first quarter of 1997.

          The total estimated net charge related to these planned actions 
          is $15 million, net of $6.5 million of income tax benefits.
          Approximately one-third of the net charge relates to reduction
          in personnel and covers severance pay and other benefits to be
          provided to terminated employees.  The remaining accrued net
          charge relates to facility close down costs and to the reduction
          to net realizable value of related equipment and facilities.
          As a result of this net charge, the Company will report a net 
          loss for the quarter ending March 31, 1996.

          These actions are intended to position the Company to better 
          meet the demands of the rapidly changing healthcare market.
          Specifically the plan will create focused, more efficient 
          factories and will enable the Company to shift production to 
          lower-cost locations.  These moves are made possible by the 
          increasing willingness of our customers to accept the Company's 
          products from alternate and multiple locations.
         
          These actions are components of an overall strategy that includes
          offering customers enhanced technical capabilities and product
          offerings to enable the Company to preserve its leadership
          position in its core business.
          
          Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
                  -------------------------------------------
          The  information  called  for  by this  Item  is  incorporated by
          reference to  "Consolidated Financial Statements", "Notes  to the
          Consolidated Financial Statements",  and "Quarterly Operating and
          Per  Share  Data  (Unaudited)"  of  the  1995  Annual  Report  to
          Shareholders.

          

          Subsequent Event
          ----------------
          On March 28, 1996, the Company approved a major restructuring plan
          which includes the closing or substantial downsizing of  six 
          manufacturing facilities, disposition of related excess equipment
          and properties and an approximate 5% reduction of the workforce.
          The total estimated charge related to these planned actions is
          $15 million, net of $6.5 million of income tax benefits, and will
          be accrued in the first quarter of 1996.  Approximately one-third 
          of the net charge relates to reduction in personnel, including 
          manufacturing and staff positions, and covers severance pay and 
          other benefits to be provided to terminated employees.  The 
          remaining accrued net charge relates to facility close down costs 
          and to the reduction to estimated net realizable value of the 
          carrying value of equipment and facilities made excess by the 
          restructuring plan.  The restructuring activities will be 
          substantially complete by the end of the first quarter of 1997.



          Item 9.  Changes  in   and  Disagreements   With  Accountants   on
                   Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
                   --------------------------------------------------------

          None.


                                       PART III

          Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
                   ---------------------------------------------------
          Information  called for by this Item is incorporated by reference
          to  "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" and  "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS - Section
          16(a) Reporting" in the Proxy Statement.


          Information about  executive officers of the Company is set forth
          in Item 4 (a) of this report.

          Item 11. Executive Compensation.
                   -----------------------
          Information called for  by this Item is incorporated by reference
          to  "ELECTION OF  DIRECTORS  - Compensation  of Directors;  Board
          Compensation   Committee   Report   on  Executive   Compensation;
          Compensation of Named Executive  Officers" contained in the Proxy
          Statement.

          Item 12. Security  Ownership of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners  and
                   Management.
                   ---------------------------------------------------
          Information called for  by this Item is incorporated by reference
          to "STOCK OWNERSHIP OF  CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS" and "ELECTION
          OF  DIRECTORS,   Stock  Ownership  of  Directors   and  Executive
          Officers" contained in the Proxy Statement.

          Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
                   -----------------------------------------------
          Information called for by this Item is incorporated  by reference
          to  "ELECTIONS  OF DIRECTORS  -  Compensation  of Directors"  and
          "ELECTION  OF  DIRECTORS -  Certain  Transactions"  in the  Proxy
          Statement.

                                       PART IV

          Item 14. Exhibits,  Financial Statement Schedules  and Reports on
                   Form 8-K.
                   -------------------------------------------------------


          (a)  1.   The   following   report  and   consolidated  financial
                    statements,  included  in  the  1995  Annual Report  to
                    Shareholders,   have   been   incorporated  herein   by
                    reference:

                 Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
                 December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
                
                 

                 Consolidated Balance Sheets at  December 31, 1995 and

                 Consolidated Statements of  Shareholders' Equity  for
                 the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993


                 Consolidated Statements of  Cash Flows for  the years
                 ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

                 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                 Report of Independent Accountants

          (a) 2.    Supplementary Financial Information

                 Schedules  are omitted  because they  are either  not
                 applicable, not  required or  because the information
                 required is contained in  the consolidated  financial
                 statements or notes thereto.  

          (a)  3.   See Index to  Exhibits on pages F-1, F-2,  F-3 and
                    F-4 of this Report.

          (b)    There  were no  reports  on Form  8-K  filed  by  the
                 Company in the fourth quarter of 1995.

          (c)    The exhibits  are listed in the  Index to Exhibits on
                 pages F-1, F-2, F-3 and F-4 of this Report.

          (d)    Financial  Statements  of   affiliates  are   omitted
                 because they do not  meet the tests of a  significant
                 subsidiary at the 20% level.

           

                                      SIGNATURES

          Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13  or 15(d)  of  the
          Securities Exchange  Act of 1934, The  West Company, Incorporated
          has duly  caused this report  to be signed  on its behalf  by the
          undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.







                                           THE WEST COMPANY, INCORPORATED
                                                     (Registrant)


                                           By /s/  Raymond J. Land       
                                           --------------------------------
                                           Raymond J. Land
                                           Senior  Vice  President,  Finance
                                           and Administration
                                           (Principal Financial Officer)

                                            March 29, 1996                
                                           --------------------------------
                                           Date



   
   Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
   report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities
   and on the dates indicated.
   




   

   



                            INDEX TO EXHIBITS
   
                                        F- 1



   
   
   

   
    
    


