10-K


a07-5873_110k.htm

10-K

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934

For
the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2006

o

TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the transition period
from            to

Commission
File Number 1-8036

WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone
number, including area code:

610-594-2900

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of
  each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par
  value $.25 per share

New York Stock
  Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12
(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filed. See
definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicated by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

x

The aggregate market value
of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of
June 30, 2006 was approximately $1,175,809,948 based on the closing price
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

As of January 31,
2007, there were 33,042,322 shares of the Registrant’s common stock outstanding

.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE

Document

Parts
  Into Which Incorporated

Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
  Shareholders to be held May 1, 2007

Part III

TABLE
OF CONTENTS

Page

CAUTIONARY FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS


PART I

ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS


General


Acquisitions and Dispositions


West Website


Business Segments


Pharmaceutical Systems Segment


Tech Group Segment


International


Raw Materials


Intellectual
  Property Rights


Seasonality


Working Capital


Marketing


Order Backlog


Competition


Research and Development Activities


Employees


ITEM
  1A. RISK FACTORS


ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS


ITEM 2.
  PROPERTIES


ITEM
  3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
  HOLDERS


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY


PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
  STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
  ABOUT MARKET RISK


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
  ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE


ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


ITEM
  9B. OTHER INFORMATION


PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
  GOVERNANCE


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
  OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
  TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE


ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES


PART IV

ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


Cautionary Factors That
May Affect Future Results

(Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995)

Our disclosure and analysis in this 2006 Form 10-K
contains some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results
based on management’s plans and assumptions. Such statements give our current
expectations or forecasts of future events—they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts. In particular, these include statements concerning
future actions, future performance or results of current and anticipated
products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal
proceedings and financial results. We have tried, wherever possible, to
identify such statements by using words such as “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,”
“believe,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “project” and other words and terms of similar
meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial
performance or condition.

We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement
will be realized. If known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or if
underlying assumptions are inaccurate, actual results could differ materially
from past results and those expressed or implied in any forward-looking
statement. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking
statements. We cannot predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, but
factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from expected
and historical results include the following: 
sales demand; the timing, regulatory approval and commercial success of
customers’ products incorporating our products and services, including
specifically, the Exubera® Inhalation-Powder insulin device; customers’ changes
to inventory requirements and manufacturing plans that alter existing orders or
ordering patterns for our products; our ability to pass raw-material cost
increases on to customers through price increases; maintaining or improving
production efficiencies and overhead absorption; physical limits on
manufacturing capacity that may limit our ability to satisfy anticipated
demand; the availability of labor to meet increased demand; competition from
other providers; average profitability, or mix, of products sold in a reporting
period; financial performance of unconsolidated affiliates; strength of the
U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies, particularly the Euro, UK Pound,
Danish Krone, Japanese Yen and Singapore Dollar; higher interest rates;
interruptions or weaknesses in our supply chain, which could cause delivery
delays or restrict the availability of raw materials and key bought-in
components and finished products, including products produced in northern
Israel; raw-material price escalation, particularly petroleum-based raw materials,
and energy costs; availability, and pricing of materials that may be affected
by vendor concerns with exposure to product-related liability; and, changes in
tax law or loss of beneficial tax incentives.

We also refer you to the
risks associated with our business that are contained in Item 1A,

Risk Factors

, as supplemented from time to time in
subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and other
documents we may file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake
no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise.

All trademarks and registered trademarks used in this
report are the property of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., unless
noted otherwise.

Exubera® is a registered trademark of Pfizer Inc.


PART I

ITEM
1.

DESCRIPTION OF
BUSINESS.

General

West Pharmaceutical
Services, Inc. (which may be referred to as

West

,
the

Company

,

we

,

us

or

our

)
is a manufacturer of components and systems for injectable drug delivery and
plastic packaging and delivery system components for the healthcare, personal
care and consumer products markets. Our products include stoppers and seals for
vials, and components used in syringes, intravenous delivery systems and blood
collection and diagnostic systems. Our customers include the world’s leading
pharmaceutical, biotechnology, generic drug and medical-device producers. The
Company was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on July 27,
1923.

Acquisitions and Dispositions

In recent years, we have
gone through a series of acquisitions and dispositions designed to focus our
business on our core competencies in pharmaceutical packaging, delivery
components and devices and related services.

On December 24, 2004,
we agreed to sell our drug delivery systems business. That business consisted
of developing proprietary chemical-based delivery methods, which when combined
with the active drug compound, would improve the drug’s delivery profile.

On August 23, 2005,
we sold our clinical services business unit. For financial reporting purposes,
the operating results of the drug delivery business and clinical services unit
have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented and
are contained in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements,

Discontinued Operations

.

On February 11, 2005,
we acquired Monarch Analytical Laboratories, Inc. (Monarch), which
provides analytical testing services for glass, plastics and elastomer
packaging.

On May 20, 2005, we
completed the acquisition of the business assets of the Tech Group, Inc.
(TGI). TGI manufactures plastic components and assemblies for the
pharmaceutical, medical device, consumer products and personal care markets.

On August 2, 2005, we
acquired a 90% interest in Medimop Medical Projects, Ltd. and its U.S.
affiliate (Medimop). Medimop develops disposable medical devices for the
mixing, transfer, reconstitution and administration of injectable drugs.

For additional detail
regarding our acquisitions, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements,

Acquisitions

.

West Website

West maintains a website
at www.westpharma.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website
under the

Investor—SEC Filings

caption as soon as
reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish
it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These filings are also
available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
You may also read and copy any document we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330
for further information on the Public Reference Room.

Throughout this Form 10-K, we “incorporate
by reference” certain information from parts of other documents filed with the
SEC and from our Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
(2007 Proxy Statement), which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days
following the end of our 2006


fiscal
year. Our 2007 Proxy Statement will be available on our website on or about March 31,
2007 under the caption

Investor—SEC Filings

.

Information about our
corporate governance, including our Corporate Governance Principles and Code of
Business Conduct, as well as information about our Directors, Board Committees,
Committee charters, and instructions on how to contact the Board, is available
on our website under the

Investor—Corporate
Governance

caption. Information relating to the West Pharmaceutical
Services Dividend Reinvestment Plan is also available on our website under the

Investors—DRIP

caption. We will provide any of the foregoing
information without charge upon written request to John R. Gailey III, Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.,
101 Gordon Drive, Lionville, Pennsylvania 19341.

Business Segments

We have two reportable
segments: Pharmaceutical Systems and Tech Group. The Pharmaceutical Systems
segment includes the results of the acquired Medimop and Monarch businesses.
The Tech Group segment includes the results of the acquired businesses of TGI.

Comparative segment
revenues and related financial information for 2006, 2005 and 2004 are
presented in a table contained in Note 7 to our consolidated financial
statements,

Segment Information

, and the section
headed

Results of Operations

in the

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

section of this 2006 Form 10-K.

Pharmaceutical Systems Segment

Our Pharmaceutical Systems
segment designs, manufactures and sells a variety of elastomer and metal
components used in parenteral drug delivery for the branded pharmaceutical,
generic and biopharmaceutical industries and is one of the world’s largest,
independent manufacturers of pharmaceutical packaging components (stoppers,
plungers and seals). The primary components we manufacture are subject to
regulatory oversight within our customers’ manufacturing facilities. We have
manufacturing facilities in North and South America, Europe and Asia Pacific,
with affiliated companies in Mexico and Japan. See Item 2,

Properties

,

for additional information on our manufacturing sites.

Our Pharmaceutical Systems
segment consists of two operating segments—the Americas and Europe/Asia Pacific—which
are aggregated for reporting purposes because they have similar economic
characteristics, as well as similar products, manufacturing processes, customer
objectives, distribution procedures and regulatory requirements.

Our
Pharmaceutical Systems business is composed of the following product lines:

·

Elastomeric stoppers and discs, which serve as
primary closures for pharmaceutical vials.

·

Secondary closures for pharmaceutical vials,
called Flip-Off® aluminum seals, consisting of an aluminum seal and removable
plastic button, and in some applications, just an aluminum seal.

·

Elastomeric syringe plungers, stoppers for blood
collection systems and flashback bulbs and sleeve stoppers for intravenous
dispensing systems.

·

Elastomer and co-molded elastomer/plastic
components for infusion (IV) sets.

·

Dropper bulbs—including tamper-evident droppers—for
applications such as eye, ear and nasal drops, diagnostic products and
dispensing systems.

·

Needle shields and tip
caps to fit most standard prefilled syringes and combination seals for dental
cartridges and pens.

·

Baby bottle nipple and pacifier bulbs from a
variety of elastomeric formulations.


Our elastomeric components
are offered in a variety of standard and customer-specific configurations and
formulations. These components are available with advanced barrier films and
coatings to enhance their performance.

FluroTec® is

a
flurorcarbon film which is applied to rubber stoppers and plungers using a
patented molding process. This film helps to prevent the migration of rubber
constituents into the drug formulation and the absorption of drug constituents
into the rubber stopper and results in enhanced shelf life of packaged drugs.

Teflon®

is a flourinated
ethylene-propylene film applied to the surface of serum stoppers to improve
compatibility between the closure and the drug. Teflon® is a registered
trademark of E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company.

B2-

Coating
is a polydimethylsiloxane fluid coating applied to the surface of rubber
stoppers and plungers using a patented process. B2-Coating eliminates the
need for conventional siliconization to help manufacturers reduce vision system
product rejections due to trace levels of silicone molecules found in packaged
drug compounds. FluroTec and B2-Coating technologies are licensed from
Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.

In addition to the coating
technologies, we offer a post-manufacturing process called Westar® RS (ready
to sterilize), a documented and fully validated procedure for washing and
siliconizing stoppers and syringe components to remove biological materials and
endotoxins prior to sterilization. The Westar® process increases the overall
efficiency of injectable drug production by centralizing processing and
eliminating steps otherwise required in each of our customers’ manufacturing
processes.

Our Flip-Off® secondary
closures are tamper-evident sterilizable seals, consisting of a metal overseal
and a molded plastic cap that is removed in order to permit access to the
drug-vial contents. These are sold in a wide range of sizes and color
combinations to meet customers’ needs for product identification and
differentiation. In 2004, we introduced seals with a smooth-top surface for
printing or embossing cautionary statements, usage or dosage instructions, or
manufacturer or product names. In 2005, we introduced anti-counterfeiting
technologies that include the use of spectroscopic inks for covert product
protection—allowing customers to incorporate price codes or product lot numbers
visible only under ultra-violet lights.

The latest seal
technology, known as West Spectra™ RFID, currently in development with two
manufacturers, incorporates a radio-frequency identification chip within the
molded cap. The chip can include product information and manufacturer
information that is readable and easy to update, enabling product tracking
throughout the entire supply chain.

Many injectable drug
products, including the majority of recently introduced biotechnology products,
are produced as freeze-dried powders in order to preserve product efficacy
during shipment and storage. These products must be reconstituted, typically by
diluting the powder with sterile water or other diluent at the point of use. Our
acquisition of Medimop expanded our product offerings in this area. All Medimop
products are 510K-approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration
(FDA). In addition, many Medimop products are protected by patents.

As an adjunct to our
Pharmaceutical Systems products, we offer contract analytical laboratory
services for testing and evaluating primary drug packaging components and their
compatibility with the contained drug formulation specializing in extractables
and leachables testing. Monarch Laboratories specializes in plastic and glass
materials testing. Prior to acquiring Monarch, our analytical laboratories
focused primarily on elastomer materials. The two operations have been combined
to form West Monarch Analytical Laboratories. The integrated laboratories
provide us and our customers with in-depth knowledge and analysis of the
interaction and compatibility of drug products with elastomer, glass and
plastic packaging components. Our analytical laboratories also provide
specialized testing for complete drug delivery systems.


Tech Group Segment

Our Tech Group segment
serves

the medical, pharmaceutical, diagnostic and healthcare
markets with custom contract-manufacturing services. Products and
projects include design and manufacturing of unique components for surgical,
ophthalmic, diagnostic and drug delivery systems, such as contact lens storage
kits, pill dispensers, safety needle syringes, disposable blood collection
systems and components and systems associated with drug inhalation devices. This
segment has manufacturing operations in the U.S., Mexico, Puerto Rico and
Ireland. See Item 2,

Properties

, for
additional information on our manufacturing sites.

The Tech Group segment also has expertise
in product design, including in-house mold design and construction, a
quick-response center for developmental and prototype tooling and high-speed
automated assemblies. Technologies include multi-material molding, in-mold
labeling, ultrasonic-welding and automated multi-component clean-room assembly.

In January 2006, the FDA and the
European Medicines Agency granted marketing approval for Exubera® Inhalation
Powder, a pulmonary insulin product, licensed by Pfizer, Inc. and
developed by our customer, Nektar Therapeutics. We are one of two
contract-manufacturers, and the only U.S.-based contract-manufacturer, for
Nektar’s inhalation delivery device. Although the product faces significant
challenges in gaining acceptance among physicians and diabetic patients,
current expectations for the product are positive. Pfizer currently markets the
product in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Germany. In the U.S., Pfizer has
initiated plans for an expanded roll-out of Exubera® to primary care physicians
beginning in 2007.

In the
consumer products and personal care markets, Tech Group products include the
following:

·

Child-resistant and tamper-evident closures and
dispensers for personal care products.

·

Spout-Pak

®
components used to seal beverage containers (Spout-Pak® is a registered
trademark of International Paper).

·

Multi-piece components for consumer technology
products.

·

Unique pens and marking systems.

·

Small-scale fan/motor assemblies.

·

Laundry and home-care system components.

International

We have significant
operations outside the United States. They are managed through the same
business segments as our U.S. operations—Pharmaceutical Systems and Tech Group.
Sales outside of the U.S. account for approximately 49% of consolidated net
sales.

For a geographic breakdown
of sales, see the table in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements,

Segment Information

, and Note 13,

Affiliated
Companies

.

Although the general
business process is similar to the domestic business, international operations
are exposed to additional risks inherent in carrying on business in other
countries. These risks include currency fluctuations, multiple tax
jurisdictions and—particularly in Latin and South America and the Middle East—political
and social issues that could destabilize local markets and affect the demand
for our products.

Depending on the direction of change relative to the
U.S. dollar, foreign currency values can increase or decrease the reported
dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. See the discussion
under


the
caption

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies -
Foreign Currency Translation

in Note 1 to our consolidated financial
statements. Also see Note 5,

Other Expense

.

We attempt to minimize
some of our exposure to these exchange rate fluctuations through the use of
forward exchange contracts and foreign currency denominated debt. This activity
is generally discussed in Note 1 under the caption

Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies—Financial Instruments

and in Note 16,

Financial Instruments

, to our
consolidated financial statements in this 2006 Form 10-K.

Raw Materials

We use three basic raw
materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers, aluminum and plastic.
Elastomers include both natural and synthetic materials. We have access to
adequate supplies of these raw materials to meet our production needs through
agreements with suppliers, and therefore foresee no significant availability
problems in the near future.

We utilize a supply-chain
management strategy in our reporting segments, which involves purchasing from
integrated suppliers that control their own sources of supply. This strategy
has reduced the number of our raw material suppliers. In most cases, we
purchase raw materials from a single source to assure quality and reduce costs.
Due to regulatory control over our production processes, and the cost and time
involved in qualifying suppliers, we rely on single-source suppliers for many
critical raw materials. This strategy increases the risk that our supply lines
may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production problem.

These risks are managed,
where possible, by selecting suppliers with multiple manufacturing sites, rigid
quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and other methods of
maintaining supply in case of interruption in production.

Intellectual Property Rights

Patents and other
proprietary rights are important to our business. We own or license numerous
patents and have patent applications pending in the United States and in
foreign countries that relate to various aspects of our products. In addition,
key valued-added and proprietary products and processes are licensed from our
Japanese affiliate, Daikyo Seiko Ltd. Our patents and other proprietary rights
have been useful in establishing our market share and in the growth of our business,
and are expected to continue to be of value in the future, as we continue to
develop proprietary products. Although of importance in the aggregate, we do
not consider our business to be materially dependent on any individual patent.

We also rely heavily on
trade secrets, manufacturing know-how and continuing technological innovations,
as well as in-licensing opportunities, to maintain and further develop our
competitive position, particularly in the area of formulation development and
tooling design.

If the use of our
technologies conflicts with the intellectual property rights of third-parties,
we may incur substantial liabilities and we may be unable to commercialize
products based on these technologies in a profitable manner, if at all.

Seasonality

Although our
Pharmaceutical Systems business is not inherently seasonal, sales and operating
profit in the second half of the year are typically lower when compared to
those of the first half of the year primarily due to scheduled plant shutdowns
for maintenance procedures and vacations for production employees, and the
year-end impact of holidays on production scheduling.

Working Capital

We are required to carry significant amounts of
inventory to meet customer requirements. Other agreements also require us to
purchase inventory in bulk orders, which increases inventory levels but


decreases
the risk of supply interruption. Levels of inventory are also influenced by the
seasonal patterns discussed above. For a more detailed discussion of working
capital, please see the discussion in

Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

under
the caption

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resource

s.

Marketing

Our Pharmaceutical Systems
customers include practically every major branded pharmaceutical, generic and
biopharmaceutical company in the world. Pharmaceutical systems components and
other products are sold to major pharmaceutical, biotechnology and hospital
supply/medical device companies, which incorporate them into their products for
distribution to the ultimate end-user.

With extensive experience
in contract-manufacturing, our Tech Group segment sells to many of the world’s
largest medical device and pharmaceutical companies

and to
large customers in the personal care and food-and-beverage industries. Tech
Group components generally are incorporated into our customers’ manufacturing
lines for further processing or assembly.

West’s products and
services are distributed primarily through our own sales force and distribution
network, with limited use of contract sales agents and regional distributors.

Our ten largest customers
accounted for approximately 36.4% of our consolidated net sales in 2006, but
not one of these customers accounted for more than 10%. The three largest
customers in the Tech Group segment accounted for approximately 24.3% of the
2006 net sales for that segment.

Order Backlog

At December 31, 2006,
our order backlog was $250.1 million, of which $248.2 million is expected to be
filled during fiscal year 2007. The order backlog was $182.5 million at the end
of 2005. This increase was primarily due to strengthening demand for key
products and blanket orders placed by certain customers for the full year.
Order backlog includes firm orders placed by customers for manufacture over a
period of time according to their schedule or upon confirmation by the
customer. We also have contractual arrangements with a number of our customers,
and products covered by these contracts are included in our backlog only as orders
are received.

Competition

We compete with several
companies across our major and minor Pharmaceutical Systems product lines. However,
we believe that we supply a major portion of the U.S. market for pharmaceutical
elastomer and metal packaging components and have a significant share of the
European market for these components.

Because of the special
nature of our pharmaceutical packaging components and our long-standing
participation in the market, competition is based primarily on product design
and performance although total cost is becoming increasingly important as
pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost-control programs across
their entire operations. We differentiate ourselves from our competition as a “full-service
value-added” global supplier that can provide pre-sale formula and engineering
development, analytical services, regulatory expertise and post-manufacturing
technologies, as well as after-sale technical support. Customers also
appreciate the global scope of West’s manufacturing capability and our ability
to produce many products at multiple sites.

Our Tech Group business is in very competitive markets
for both healthcare and consumer products. The competition varies from smaller
regional companies to large global molders that command significant market
shares. There are extreme cost pressures and many of our customers look
off-shore to reduce cost. We differentiate ourselves by leveraging our global
capability and by employing new technologies such as


high-speed
automated assembly, insert molding, multi-shot molding and expertise with
multiple-piece closure systems. Because of the more demanding regulatory
requirements in the medical-device component area, there are a smaller number
of other competitors, mostly large-scale companies. We compete for this market
on the basis of our reputation for quality and reliability in engineering and
project management, diverse contract-manufacturing capabilities and knowledge
of and experience in complying with FDA requirements.

Research and Development Activities

We maintain our own
research-scale production facilities and laboratories for development of new
products and offer contract engineering design and development services to
assist customers with new product development.

Our quality control,
regulatory and laboratory testing capabilities also are used to ensure
compliance with applicable manufacturing and regulatory standards for primary
and secondary pharmaceutical packaging components. Our engineering departments
are responsible for product and tooling design and testing, and for the design
and construction of processing equipment. In addition we have created an
innovation group responsible for seeking new opportunities in injectable
packaging and delivery systems, for developing innovative new products to serve
unmet market needs, and for the process of transitioning our Tech Group segment
from primarily a contract manufacturer to a producer of high-value proprietary
systems and products.

In 2006, we employed 69
professionals in these activities. We spent $8.8 million in 2006, $6.3 million
in 2005 and $5.2 million in 2004 on development and engineering for the
Pharmaceutical Systems segment. The Tech Group segment incurred research and
development expenses of $2.3 million, $1.6 million, and $1.6 million in the
years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Commercial development of
our new products and services for medical and pharmaceutical applications
commonly requires several years. New products that we develop may require
separate approval as medical devices, and products that are intended to be used
in packaging and delivery of pharmaceutical products will be subject to both
customer acceptance of our products and regulatory approval of the customer’s
products following our development period.

Employees

As of December 31,
2006, we employed approximately 6,323 people in our operations throughout the
world.

ITEM
1A.

RISK FACTORS.

Our sales and profitability depend to a
large extent on the sale of drug products delivered by injection. If the
products developed by our customers in the future use another delivery system,
our sales and profitability could suffer.

Our business depends to a substantial
extent on customers’ continued sales and development of products that are
delivered by injection. We also rely on our customers who develop products that
use other delivery means, including oral and trans-mucosal, specifically, the
Exubera® Inhalation-Powder insulin device. However, if our customers fail to
continue to sell, develop and deploy new injectable products or we are unable
to develop new products that assist in the delivery of drugs by alternative
methods, our sales and profitability may suffer.


If we are unable to provide comparative
value advantages, timely fulfillment of customer orders, or resist pricing
pressure, we will have to reduce our prices, which may negatively impact our
profit margins.

We compete with several companies across
our major product lines. Because of the special nature of these products,
competition is based primarily on product design and performance, although
total cost is becoming increasingly important as pharmaceutical companies
continue with aggressive cost control programs across their entire operations.
Competitors often compete on the basis of price. We differentiate ourselves
from our competition as a “full-service value-added” supplier that is able to
provide pre-sale compatibility studies and other services and sophisticated
post-sale technical support on a global basis. However, we face continued pricing
pressure from our customers and competitors. If we are unable to resist or to
offset the effects of continued pricing pressure through our value-added
services, improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, or if we
have to reduce our prices, our sales and profitability may suffer.

If we are unable to expand our production
capacity at our European and Asian facilities, there may be a delay in
fulfilling or we may be unable to fulfill customer orders and this could
potentially reduce our sales and our profitability may suffer.

We have significant indebtedness and debt
service payments which could negatively impact our liquidity.

We owe substantial
debts and have to commit significant cash flow to debt service requirements. The
level of our indebtedness, among other things, could:

·

make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary
future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service
requirements or other purposes;

·

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to
changes in, our business; and

·

make our financial results and share value more
vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business.

Our ability to meet our debt service
obligations and to reduce our total indebtedness depends on the results of our
product development efforts, our future operating performance, our ability to
generate cash flow from the sale of our products and on general economic,
financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors affecting our
operations. Many of these factors are beyond our control and our future
operating performance could be adversely affected by some or all of these
factors.

If we incur new indebtedness in the
future, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Whether we are able
to make required payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to satisfy any
other future debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance
and our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing.

We are subject to regulation by
governments around the world, and if these regulations are not complied with,
existing and future operations may be curtailed, and we could be subject to
liability.

The design, development, manufacturing,
marketing and labeling of certain of our products and our customers’ products
that incorporate our products are subject to regulation by governmental
authorities in the United States, Europe and other countries, including the FDA
and the European Medicines Agency. The regulatory process can result in
required modification or withdrawal of existing products and a substantial
delay in the introduction of new products. Also, it is possible that regulatory
approval may not be obtained for a new product. In addition, our analytical
laboratories perform certain contract services for drug manufacturers and are
subject to the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices regulations. We must
also register as a contract laboratory with the FDA and are subject to periodic
inspections by the FDA. The Drug Enforcement Administration has licensed our
contract analytical laboratories to handle and store controlled substances.


Failure to comply with applicable
regulatory requirements can result in actions that could adversely affect our
business and financial performance.

Our business may be adversely affected by
changes in the regulation of drug products and devices.

An effect of the governmental regulation
of our customers’ drug products, devices, and manufacturing processes is that
compliance with regulations makes it costly and time consuming for customers to
substitute or replace components and devices produced by one supplier with
those from another. In general terms, regulation of our customers’ products
that incorporate our components and devices has increased over time. However,
if the applicable regulations were to be modified in a way that reduced the
cost and time involved for customers to substitute one supplier’s components or
devices for those made by another, it is likely that the competitive pressure
on us would increase and adversely affect our sales and profitability.

Our business may be adversely affected by
risks typically encountered in international operations and fluctuations in
currency exchange rates.

We conduct business in most of the major
pharmaceutical markets in the world. Sales outside the U.S. account for
approximately 49% of consolidated net sales. Although the general business
process is similar to the domestic business, international operations are
exposed to additional risks, including the following: fluctuations in currency
exchange rates; transportation delays and interruptions; political and economic
instability and disruptions, especially in Latin and South America, Asia, and
Israel; the imposition of duties and tariffs; import and export controls; the
risks of divergent business expectations or cultural incompatibility inherent
in establishing and maintaining operations in foreign countries; difficulties
in staffing and managing multi-national operations; labor strikes and/or
disputes; limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; and
potentially adverse tax consequences.

Any of these events could have an adverse
effect on our international operations in the future by reducing the demand for
our products, decreasing the prices at which we can sell our products or
otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to operate in compliance
with foreign laws and regulations, or comply with applicable customs, currency
exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or
regulations to which we may be subject, in the event that these laws or
regulations change.

Raw material and energy prices have a
significant impact on our profitability. If raw material and/or energy prices
increase, and we cannot pass those price increases on to our customers, our
profitability and financial condition may suffer.

We use three basic categories of raw
materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers (which include
synthetic and natural material), aluminum and plastic. In addition, our
manufacturing facilities consume a wide variety of energy products to fuel,
heat and cool our operations. Supply and demand factors, which are beyond our
control, generally affect the price of our raw materials and utility costs. If
we are unable to pass along increased raw material prices and energy costs to
our customers, our profitability, and thus our financial condition, may be
adversely affected. The prices of many of these raw materials and utilities are
cyclical and volatile. For example, the prices of certain commodities,
particularly petroleum-based raw materials, have rapidly increased in the
recent past, increasing the cost of synthetic elastomers and plastic. While we
generally attempt to pass along increased costs to our customers in the form of
sales price increases, historically there has been a time delay between raw
material and/or energy price increases and our ability to increase the prices
of our products. In some circumstances, we may not be able to increase the
prices of our products due to competitive pressure and other factors

.


Disruptions in the supply of key raw
materials and difficulties in the supplier qualification process, could
adversely impact our operations.

We utilize a supply chain management
strategy in our reporting segments, which involves purchasing from integrated
suppliers that control their own sources of supply. This strategy has reduced
the number of raw material suppliers used by us. In most cases, we purchase raw
materials from a single source to assure quality and reduce costs. Due to
regulatory control over our production processes, and the cost and time
involved in qualifying suppliers, we rely on single source suppliers for many
critical raw materials. This strategy increases the risks that our supply lines
may be interrupted in the event of a supplier production problem. These risks
are managed, where possible, by selecting suppliers with multiple manufacturing
sites, rigid quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and other
methods of maintaining supply in the case of interruption in production.

However, should one of our suppliers be
unable to supply materials needed for our products or should our strategies for
managing these risks be unsuccessful, we may be unable to complete the process
of qualifying new replacement materials for some programs in time to meet
future production needs.

Prolonged disruptions in the supply of any
of our key raw materials, difficulty completing qualification of new sources of
supply, or in implementing the use of replacement materials or new sources of
supply could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial
condition or cash flows.

Our operations must comply with
environmental statutes and regulations, and any failure to comply could result
in extensive costs which would harm our business.

The manufacture of some of our products
involves the use, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous or toxic
materials and is subject to various environmental protection and occupational
health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. This
has exposed us in the past, and could expose us in the future, to risks of
accidental contamination and events of non-compliance with environmental laws. Any
such occurrences could result in regulatory enforcement or personal injury and
property damage claims or could lead to a shutdown of some of our operations,
which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We
currently incur costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations and
these costs may become more significant.

A loss of key personnel or highly skilled
employees could disrupt our operations.

Our executive officers are critical to the
management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in
large part, on our ability to retain these officers and other capable
management personnel. With the exception of our Chief Executive Officer, in
general, we do not enter into employment agreements with our executive
officers. We have entered into severance agreements with several of our
officers that allow those officers to terminate their employment under
particular circumstances, such as a change of control affecting our company.
Although we believe that we will be able to attract and retain talented
personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, our inability to do
so could disrupt the operations of the unit affected or our overall operations.
In addition, because of the complex nature of many of our products and
programs, we are generally dependent on an educated and highly skilled
engineering staff and workforce. Our operations could be disrupted by a
shortage of available skilled employees.

ITEM
1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

As of the filing of this
annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from
the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission.


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES.

Our
corporate headquarters are located in a leased building at 101 Gordon Drive,
Lionville, Pennsylvania. This building also houses one of our contract
analytical laboratory facilities and our North American sales and marketing,
administrative support and customer service functions. The following table
summarizes facilities by segment and geographic region. All facilities shown
are owned except where otherwise noted.

Pharmaceutical Systems

Tech Group

Manufacturing:

Manufacturing:

North American Operations

North American Operations

United States

Clearwater, FL(1)

Jersey Shore, PA

Kearney, NE

Kinston, NC

Lititz, PA

St. Petersburg, FL

South
  American Operations

Brazil

São Paulo

European
  Operations

Denmark

Horsens

England

St. Austell

France

Le Nouvion

Germany

Eschweiler(1)

Stolberg

Serbia

Kovin

Asia
  Pacific Operations

Singapore

Jurong

United States

Frankfort, IN(2)

Grand Rapids, MI(2)

Montgomery, PA(2)

Phoenix, AZ(2)

Scottsdale, AZ(2)

Tempe, AZ(2)

Walker, MI(3)

Williamsport, PA

Mexico

El Salto(2)(4)

Puerto Rico

Cayey

European
  Operations

Ireland

Dublin(2)(4)

Mold-and-Die Tool Shops:

North
  American Operations

United
  States

Erie,
  PA

Scottsdale, AZ(2)

Contract Analytical Laboratory:

North American Operations

United States

Maumee, OH

Mold-and-Die Tool Shops:

North American Operations

United States

Upper Darby, PA(2)

European Operations

England

Bodmin(2)

(1)

This
manufacturing facility is also used for research and development activities.

(2)

This
facility is leased in whole or in part.

(3)

Acquired
to replace the facility in Grand Rapids, MI in February 2007.

(4)

This
manufacturing facility is also used for mold and die production.


Sales office facilities in
separate locations are leased under short-term arrangements.

Our manufacturing
production facilities are well maintained and are operating generally on a two-
or three-shift basis. We are currently expanding production capacity at the
following facilities: Eschweiler, Germany; Le Nouvion, France; Bodmin, England;
Jurong, Singapore and Kovin, Serbia.

As part of our effort to
increase manufacturing capacity, we intend to establish a manufacturing
presence in the Peoples Republic of China. Management is executing plans that
will culminate in a new plastic injection-molding plant, with planned
completion in 2009, and we have initiated agreements to form a joint venture
with a local medical rubber manufacturer, designed to lead to a new rubber
components plant that would be fully completed in 2011, subject to the transfer
of manufacturing licenses and necessary government and regulatory approval.
Acquisition of land-use rights and arrangements for the necessary utilities and
improvements to support the new plants are being finalized.

ITEM
3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

On February 2, 2006,
we settled a lawsuit filed in connection with the January 2003 explosion
and related fire at our Kinston, N.C. plant. Our monetary contribution was
limited to the balance of our deductibles under applicable insurance policies,
all of which has been previously recorded in our financial statements. We
continue to be a party, but not a defendant, in a lawsuit brought by injured
workers against a number of third-party suppliers to the Kinston plant. We
believe exposure in that case is limited to amounts we and our workers’
compensation insurance carrier would otherwise be entitled to receive by way of
subrogation from the plaintiffs.

We and several other
potentially interested parties entered into a settlement agreement, effective November 10,
2006, with the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico relating to damages to natural
resources resulting from alleged releases of hazardous substances at an
industrial park in Vega Alta, Puerto Rico. The agreement provides for a release
of claims by the Commonwealth in exchange for a cash settlement payment. As
part of the settlement we agreed to pay $0.45 million.

ITEM
4.

SUBMISSION OF
MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The
executive officers of the Company are set forth in the following table:

Name

Age

Position

Joseph E. Abbott


Vice
  President and Corporate Controller

Michael A.
  Anderson


Vice
  President and Treasurer

Steven A. Ellers


President
  and Chief Operating Officer

William J.
  Federici


Vice
  President and Chief Financial Officer

John R. Gailey
  III


Vice
  President, General Counsel and Secretary

Robert S.
  Hargesheimer


President
  of the Tech Group

Robert J. Keating


President,
  Europe and Asia Pacific, Pharmaceutical Systems

Division

Richard D. Luzzi


Vice
  President, Human Resources

Donald A.
  McMillan


President,
  North America, Pharmaceutical Systems Division

Donald E.
  Morel, Jr., Ph.D.


Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer

Joseph E. Abbott

Mr. Abbott joined us
in 1997 as Director of Internal Audit. He was promoted to Corporate Controller
in 2000 and elected a Vice President in 2002.


Michael A. Anderson

Mr. Anderson joined
us in 1992 as Director of Taxes. He held several positions in finance and
business development before being elected Vice President and Treasurer in June 2001.

Steven A. Ellers

Mr. Ellers joined us
in 1983. He has held numerous positions in operations before being elected
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in March 1998. In June 2000,
he was elected Executive Vice President and in June 2002 was elected
President, Pharmaceutical Systems Division. He was elected President and Chief
Operating Officer in June 2005.

William J. Federici

Mr. Federici joined
us in August 2003. He was previously National Industry Director for
Pharmaceuticals of KPMG LLP (accounting firm) from June 2002 until August 2003,
and prior thereto, an audit partner with Arthur Andersen, LLP.

John R. Gailey III

Mr. Gailey joined us
in 1991 as Corporate Counsel and Secretary. He was elected General Counsel in
1994 and Vice President in 1995.

Robert S.
Hargesheimer

Mr. Hargesheimer
joined us in 1992. He served in numerous operational and general managerial roles
before being elected President of the Device Group in April 2003. He was
elected President of the Tech Group in October 2005.

Robert J. Keating

Mr. Keating joined us
in 1997. He served in country general management and regional sales and
marketing-management positions before being elected President, Europe and Asia
Pacific, Pharmaceutical Systems Division in April 2002.

Richard D. Luzzi

Mr. Luzzi joined us
in June 2002. Prior to his service at West, he served as Vice President
Human Resources of GS Industries, a steel manufacturer.

Donald A. McMillan

Mr. McMillan joined
us in May 1984. He served in numerous operations, sales and
sales-management and marketing positions prior to being elected President,
North America, Pharmaceutical Systems Division in October 2005.

Donald E. Morel, Jr.,
Ph.D.

Dr. Morel has been Chairman of the Board of the
Company since March 2003 and our Chief Executive Officer since April 2002.
He was our President from April 2002 to June 2006, Chief Operating
Officer from May 2001 to April 2002, Division President, Drug
Delivery Systems from October 1999 to May 2001, and prior thereto,
Group President.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The high and low prices
for the stock for each calendar quarter in 2006 and 2005 and full year 2006 and
2005 were as follows:

First Quarter

Second Quarter

Third Quarter

Fourth Quarter

Year

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low

High

Low


34.72

24.83

37.97

32.75

42.66

31.43

52.77

38.00

52.77

24.83


27.08

23.25

28.89

22.90

29.99

25.72

29.69

18.58

29.99

18.58

As of January 31,
2007, we had 1,377 shareholders of record. There were also 2,189 holders of
shares registered in nominee names. Our common stock paid a quarterly dividend
of $.11 per share in each of the first three quarters of 2005; $.12 per share
in the fourth quarter of 2005 and each of the first three quarters of 2006; and
$.13 per share in the fourth quarter of 2006.

Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities

The
following table shows information with respect to purchases of our common stock
made during the three months ended December 31, 2006 by us or any of our “affiliated
purchasers” as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange
Act:

Period

Total number of

shares purchased(1)

Average price

paid per share

Total number of shares

purchased as part of a

publicly announced

plan or programs

Maximum number of

shares that may yet be

purchased under the plan

or program

October 1,
  2006 – October 31, 2006


$

41.33

—

—

November 1, 2006 – November 30, 2006


42.72

—

—

December 1, 2006 – December 31, 2006


50.25

—

—

Total


$

44.55

—

—

(1)

Includes
507 shares purchased on behalf of employees enrolled in the Non-Qualified
Deferred Compensation Plan for Designated Officers (Amended and Restated
Effective January 1, 2004). Under the plan, Company match contributions
are delivered to the plan’s investment administrator, who upon receipt,
purchases shares in the open market and credits the shares to individual plan
accounts.


Performance Graph

The following graph compares the cumulative total
return to holders of the Company’s common stock with the cumulative total
return of the Standard & Poor’s Small Cap 600 Index, the Standard &
Poor’s 600 Health Care Equipment & Supplies and of a Company-selected
peer group for the five years ended December 31, 2006. Cumulative total
return to shareholders is measured by dividing total dividends (assuming
dividend reinvestment) plus the per-share price change for the period by the
share price at the beginning of the period. The Company’s cumulative
shareholder return is based on an investment of $100 on December 31, 2001
and is compared to the cumulative total return of the Small Cap 600 Index, the
600 Health Care Equipment & Supplies and the peer group over the
period with a like amount invested.

We selected the peer group
companies based principally on nature of business, revenues, market complexity,
products and manufacturing, employee base, technology base, market share, type
of customer and customer relationship. The peer group is composed of Cambrex
Corp., AptarGroup, Inc., Alaris Medical Systems, Inc. (through 2003;
acquired by Cardinal Health in June 2004), Viasys Healthcare Inc., Andrx
Corp. (through 2005; acquired by Watson Pharmaceuticals in November 2006)
and Nektar Therapeutics, Inc. (formerly Inhale Therapeutic Systems, Inc.).

Comparison of
Cumulative Five Year Total Return


ITEM 6.

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA.

FIVE-YEAR
SUMMARY

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries






(in millions, except per share data)

SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS

Net sales

$

913.3

699.7

541.6

483.4

412.8

Operating profit

101.0

73.4

49.4

72.4

42.0

Income from continuing operations

61.5

46.0

34.3

43.1

22.9

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

5.6

0.4

(14.1

)

(11.0

)

(4.2

)

Net income

$

67.1

46.4

20.2

32.1

18.7

Income per share from
  continuing operations:

Basic(1)

$

1.91

1.48

1.14

1.49

.79

Assuming dilution(2)

1.83

1.41

1.11

1.49

.79

Income (loss) per share
  from discontinued operations:

Basic(1)

.18

.01

(.47

)

(.38

)

(.14

)

Assuming dilution(2)

.17

.01

(.46

)

(.38

)

(.14

)

Average common shares outstanding

32.2

31.1

30.0

29.0

28.9

Average shares assuming dilution

33.6

32.5

30.8

29.1

28.9

Dividends paid per common share

$

.49

.45

.425

.405

.385

YEAR-END FINANCIAL
  POSITION

Working capital

$

124.8

118.8

115.7

102.7

78.3

Total assets

918.2

833.5

657.8

616.8

523.4

Total invested capital:

Total debt

236.3

281.0

160.8

175.0

175.0

Minority interests

4.8

4.1

—

—

—

Shareholders’ equity

414.5

339.9

306.8

262.5

206.1

Total invested capital

$

655.6

625.0

467.6

437.5

381.1

PERFORMANCE
  MEASUREMENTS(3)

Gross margin(a)

28.7

%

27.7

%

29.0

%

31.8

%

28.6

%

Operating profitability(b)

11.1

%

10.5

%

9.1

%

15.0

%

10.2

%

Effective tax rate

29.1

%

29.0

%

27.2

%

36.0

%

28.9

%

Return on invested capital(c)

11.2

%

9.5

%

7.9

%

8.6

%

7.9

%

Total debt as a percentage of total invested capital

36.0

%

45.0

%

34.4

%

40.0

%

45.9

%

Research and development expenses

$

11.1

7.9

6.8

6.3

5.4

Corporate cash
  flow(d):

Operating cash flow

139.4

85.6

81.0

83.7

59.1

Less: capital expenditures

90.3

54.1

57.4

60.4

36.0

Less: dividends paid

15.9

14.1

12.8

11.8

11.1

Total Corporate cash flow

$

33.2

17.4

10.8

11.5

12.0

Stock price range

$

52.77-24.83

29.99-18.58

25.49-16.38

17.90-8.33

16.25-8.13

(1)

Based on average common shares outstanding.

(2)

Based on average shares, assuming dilution.

(3)

Performance measurements represent indicators commonly
used in the financial community. They are not measures of financial performance
under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).

(a)

Net sales minus cost of goods and services sold,
including applicable depreciation and amortization, divided by net sales.

(b)

Operating profit divided by net sales.

(c)

Operating profit multiplied by one minus the effective
tax rate divided by average total invested capital. The return on invested
capital calculation for 2003 excludes a $17.3 million insurance gain recorded
in operating profit.

(d)

Corporate cash flow is a non-GAAP measure used by
management to assess liquidity and it is a component used to determine
performance under our management incentive program. Non-GAAP financial measures
are intended to explain or aid in the use of, not as a substitute for, the
related GAAP financial measures.


Factors affecting
the comparability of the information reflected in the selected financial data:

·

2006 income from continuing
operations includes a pretax loss on extinguishment of debt of $5.9 million
($4.1 million, net of tax, or $0.12 per diluted share) and a gain on a tax
refund issue of $0.6 million or $0.02 per diluted share.

·

On
December 31, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 158,
“Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” (“SFAS
158”), which requires the recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status
of a defined benefit postretirement plan as measured by the difference between
the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. The adoption of SFAS
158 resulted in a reduction of shareholder’s equity of $19.7 million ($32.0 million
pre-tax, less a $12.3 million deferred tax benefit) at December 31, 2006.

·

During
2005, we acquired the businesses of Monarch, TGI and Medimop (

See Note 2 Acquisitions, for further information)

. Our
financial statements include the results of acquired businesses for periods
subsequent to their acquisition date.

·

income from continuing operations includes incremental income tax expense of
$1.5 million associated with the repatriation of foreign sourced income under
the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and a reduction in an estimate for
restructuring costs which increased income from continuing operations by $1.3
million.

·

On January 1,
2005 we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard 123 “Share-Based
Payment—Revised 2004” (“SFAS 123(R)”) which required the recognition of
compensation expense connected with our stock option and employee stock
purchase plan programs that did not require expense recognition in 2004 and
prior periods under previous accounting standards. The application of SFAS 123
to the results of 2004, 2003 and 2002 would have resulted in additional net of
tax costs of $1.2 million, $1.5 million and $1.4 million, respectively.

·

income from continuing operations includes incremental manufacturing costs of
$7.9 million (net of tax) in connection with the interim production processes
that were put in place following the Kinston accident, along with Kinston
related legal expenses of $1.2 million (net of tax), restructuring charges
related to the closure of the U.K. manufacturing plant of $1.0 million, an
affiliate real estate gain of $0.6 million and $2.1 million of favorable tax
adjustments resulting from a change in French tax law extending the life of net
operating loss carryforwards, the use of U.S. foreign tax credits that were
previously expected to expire unutilized and the favorable resolution of
several prior year tax issues.

·

income from continuing operations includes a net gain from an insurance
settlement of $12.1 million (net of tax) and includes asset impairment and
post-employment benefit charges of $7.5 million (including a related tax
charge).

·

income from continuing operations includes a net restructuring charge of $7.4
million (net of tax), tax benefits of $2.4 million resulting from a change in
tax law, a $0.8 million charge related to the restructuring of one of our
affiliates and a foreign currency exchange gain of $0.8 million (net of tax).


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

Management’s discussion
and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes.

COMPANY OVERVIEW

We are a global pharmaceutical technology company that applies proprietary
materials science, formulation research and manufacturing innovation to the
quality, therapeutic value, development speed and rapid market availability of
pharmaceuticals, biologics, vaccines and consumer products. We have
manufacturing locations in North and South America, Europe and Asia Pacific,
with affiliates in Mexico and Japan. Our business is conducted through two
segments: “Pharmaceutical Systems” and “Tech Group”. Our Pharmaceutical Systems
segment focuses on primary packaging components and systems for injectable drug
delivery, including stoppers and seals for vials, and closures and disposable
components used in syringe, intravenous and blood collection systems. The Tech
Group operating segment offers custom contract-manufacturing solutions
utilizing plastic injection molding processes targeted to healthcare and
consumer industries. Our global customer base includes the world’s leading
manufacturers of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices.

In recent years, our Pharmaceutical Systems business
has experienced an increased demand for its product offerings. We believe this
demand is due to a combination of factors including an aging population that is
expected to consume more healthcare products and services, the increased
occurrence and treatment of chronic disorders, including diabetes, and
increased spending on healthcare in the world’s developing economies.
Additional demand for our products has been generated by the approval of new
biotechnology drug products delivered by injection or IV infusion, frequently
as a lyophilized (freeze-dried) powder that requires reconstitution at the
point of use.

Our Tech Group segment benefits from some of the same
factors that impact our Pharmaceutical Systems segment, particularly for
products such as insulin pens and IV filters. The Tech Group is one of two
contract manufacturers for an inhalation delivery device used in connection
with Exubera® Inhalation Powder, a pulmonary insulin product developed by our
customer Nektar Therapeutics that is marketed by Pfizer, Inc. Pfizer
currently markets the product in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Germany and
plans an expanded roll-out of Exubera® to primary care physicians in the United
States in 2007.

We have met our increased demand requirements
principally by pursuing manufacturing programs focused on increasing our
production capacity at all existing operations, adding additional shifts to our
production schedule and requiring employees to work overtime. Many of our
European operations are working at or near 100% of current capacity. Due to the
factors cited above, management expects that demand will continue to increase
in all our geographic regions, particularly in Asia as the developing economies
of China and India create additional markets for our products.

In view of projected sales growth and favorable market
trends we expect to accelerate the expansion of our production capacity in the
next several years, estimating 2007 capital spending to be approximately $130
million, with more than 80% of the spending in support of our Pharmaceutical
Systems business. We intend to expand molding production and tooling capacity
at existing facilities in Germany, France, Singapore, Serbia and the United Kingdom.
We also intend to establish a manufacturing presence in the Peoples Republic of
China resulting in a new plastic injection-molding plant, with planned
completion in 2009, and we have initiated agreements to form a joint venture
with a local medical rubber manufacturer, designed to lead to a new rubber
components plant that we expect to be completed in 2011, subject to the
transfer of manufacturing licenses and necessary government and regulatory
approval. Approximately 20% of our 2007 capital spending is targeted for the
Tech Group segment, including a significant plant relocation that we believe
should result in additional medical device production capacity.


Our principal source of short-term liquidity is a
$200.0 million committed revolving credit facility expiring in 2011. Borrowings
under the revolving credit agreement were $52.9 million and outstanding letters
of credit were $5.6 million at December 31, 2006, leaving $141.5 million
available for future use under the facility. Our revolving credit agreement
also contains an uncommitted $50.0 million “accordion” feature which allows the
revolving credit facility to be temporarily expanded to $250.0 million. We
believe that cash flow generated by operations together with our existing
credit facilities will be sufficient to fund our capital spending and
development programs. However management continues to evaluate other financing
alternatives which could be more cost efficient or provide greater flexibility
for general corporate uses including strategic acquisitions complementary to
our core businesses.

Our key financial
performance indicators include sales and operating income growth, earnings per
share, corporate cash flow (operating cash flow, less capital expenditures and
dividends paid) and return on invested capital. Sales for 2006 were 30.5% above
2005 levels, with the timing impact of our acquisitions and foreign exchange
translation contributing 13.4 and 0.6 percentage points of the increase,
respectively. Operating profit in 2006 was 37.5% higher than in 2005. Earnings
from continuing operations in 2006 were $1.83 per diluted share compared to
$1.41 per diluted share in 2005. Our results for 2006 include a pretax loss on
extinguishment of debt of $5.9 million ($4.1 million, net of tax, or $0.12 per
diluted share) and a gain on a tax refund issue of $0.6 million or $0.02 per
diluted share. Corporate cash flow in 2006 was $33.2 million, an increase of
$15.8 million over that achieved during 2005 despite higher capital
expenditures related to our Europe/Asia plant expansions and the relocation of
one of our Tech Group facilities. Return on invested capital for 2006 was 11.2%.
West’s non-financial performance indicators including on-time delivery, product
discrepancy resolution and compliance tests, also generally indicated high
levels of performance, although on-time delivery metrics have declined as a
result of capacity issues.

RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

Management’s discussion
and analysis of our operating results for the three years ended December 31,
2006, and our financial position as of December 31, 2006, should be read
in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements
appearing elsewhere in this report. The operating results of our former
clinical service unit and drug delivery research business are reported in
discontinued operations for all periods presented. Our financial statements
include the results of acquired businesses for periods subsequent to their
acquisition date. For the purpose of aiding the comparison of our year-to-year
results, reference is made in management’s discussion and analysis to results
excluding the timing impact of acquisitions and the effects of changes in
foreign exchange rates. Those re-measured period results are not in conformity
with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and are “non-GAAP
financial measures.” The non-GAAP financial measures are intended to explain or
aid in the use of, not as a substitute for, the related GAAP financial
measures.


NET SALES

The
following table summarizes net sales by reportable segment and product group:




($ in millions)

Pharmaceutical
  packaging

$

511.9

$

417.2

$

378.1

Disposable
  medical components

109.2

97.4

88.1

Personal care
  products

4.9

5.1

5.1

Laboratory and
  other services

18.1

18.6

9.7

Pharmaceutical Systems Segment

$

644.1

$

538.3

$

481.0

Healthcare devices

155.6

76.5

24.7

Consumer products

84.4

63.2

35.6

Tooling/mold
  construction

39.2

30.4

7.6

Tech Group Segment

$

279.2

$

170.1

$

67.9

Intersegment Sales

$

(10.0

)

$

(8.7

)

$

(7.3

)

Total Net Sales

$

913.3

$

699.7

$

541.6

2006 compared to

Consolidated 2006 net sales were $913.3 million, an
increase of 30.5% over sales reported in 2005. Net sales for 2006 include a
full twelve months of results from the businesses acquired during 2005. The
acquired businesses, consisting of TGI, Medimop and Monarch, are included in
2005 results for periods subsequent to their acquisition date. The timing
impact of our acquisitions accounts for 13.4 percentage points of the 2006
sales increase. Favorable foreign currency translation contributed 0.6
percentage points of the 2006 sales increase. Excluding the timing impact of
acquisitions and foreign currency translation, 2006 net sales increased 16.5%
over 2005 sales.

In the
Pharmaceutical Systems segment, 2006 net sales of $644.1 million were $105.8
million, 19.7%, above 2005 levels. The timing impact associated with the 2005
acquisitions of Medimop and Monarch accounted for 2.0 percentage points of the
2006 increase. Foreign currency translation accounted for another 0.6
percentage points of the 2006 sales increase. Excluding the timing impact of
acquisitions and foreign currency translation, 2006 net sales in the Pharmaceutical
Systems segment were 17.1%, above those achieved in 2005. Sales growth was
achieved in both domestic and international markets with sales increases of
17.7% in the United States and 16.8% in international markets.

2006 sales of pharmaceutical packaging components were
$94.7 million above those recorded in 2005, accounting for 90% of the 2006
sales growth in the Pharmaceutical Systems segment. Sales of stoppers molded
from elastomeric formulations and used in the packaging of serum vials, lyophilized
products and fitments for intravenous systems accounted for almost 40% of the
sales increase in pharmaceutical packaging components. We continue to
experience strong demand for our Westar® processed components. Westar ® is our
process for preparing components for direct entry in customers’ sterilization
units, which helps to increase the efficiency of customer manufacturing
operations. Sales of specially coated stoppers, including FluroTec®films and
Teflon® barriers, represented approximately half of the overall increase in
stopper sales, with a portion of that demand representing the return to normal
customer ordering patterns and inventory levels following formulation changes
that reduced 2005 sales levels.

Net sales of pre-filled syringe components such as
plungers, needle-shields and tip-caps accounted for approximately 25% of the
sales increase in pharmaceutical packaging components with particularly strong
demand in international markets resulting from injectable treatments for
diabetes, anemia and thrombosis. Our drug reconstitution, mixing and transfer
products featuring needleless devices and packaging systems


contributed approximately
17% of the 2006 increase in sales of pharmaceutical packaging components,
largely reflecting a full year’s sales from the Medimop business acquired in
the third quarter of 2005. 2006 net sales of our Flip-Off® Seals, a combination
plastic button and aluminum shell used in vial packaging, contributed 12% of
the increase in pharmaceutical packaging components with strong demand in the
United States for a customer’s injectable therapy for kidney dialysis patients.

In other Pharmaceutical Systems product groups, 2006
sales of disposable medical components increased $11.8 million over the prior
year, largely due to an improved sales mix in non-filled syringe components
which more than offset an overall decrease in unit volumes in this category.
Net sales of personal care products, laboratory and other services remained
approximately equal to prior year levels.

In our Tech Group segment,
2006 net sales were $109.1 million above those reported in the prior year. The
acquired TGI business accounted for $104.0 million of the increase in segment
sales, of which $83.5 million is attributed to the timing of the acquisition.
The remaining $20.5 million of the acquired business’s sales increase
represents volume related gains, approximately 80% of which is attributed to
net sales of a pulmonary drug delivery device for the inhaleable insulin
product Exubera ® inhalation powder, licensed by Pfizer Inc. and developed by
our customer, Nektar Therapeutics. Other healthcare device revenues resulting
from the assembly of insulin pen injection devices and increased sales of
consumer products account for the remainder of the acquired business’s volume
related gains. Our previously existing plastic molding operations, that
represent the balance of the Tech Group segment, recorded a 2006 net sales
increase of $5.1 million over the prior year on higher sales of juice container
closures, nurser assemblies, and containers for pain relief medication,
contraceptives and weight loss products.

2005 compared to

Our consolidated 2005 net sales increased 29.2% over
sales reported in 2004. Sales in the TGI, Medimop and Monarch businesses are
included in 2005 results for periods subsequent to their acquisition date and
represented 19.7 percentage points of the 2005 sales increase versus the prior
year. Favorable foreign currency translation contributed 0.5 percentage points
of the 2005 sales increase. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign
currency translation, 2005 net sales increased 9.0% over 2004 sales.

In the Pharmaceutical Systems segment, 2005 net sales
were $57.3 million, or 11.9%, above 2004 levels. Acquired businesses
contributed $7.7 million of sales to 2005 results. 2005 foreign currency
translation variances were $2.8 million favorable to the prior year. Excluding
the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency translation, 2005 net sales in
the Pharmaceutical Systems segment were $46.8 million, or 9.7%, above those
achieved in 2004. Sales in international markets generated the majority of the
sales increase driven by strong demand for pharmaceutical packaging components
used in pre-filled syringe systems for the delivery of our customers’ insulin
products for diabetes, cancer treatments, vaccines and dental applications. 2005
sales growth in the United States was moderated by the impact of planned
formulation changes in specialty coated stoppers used in serum and lyophilized
pharmaceutical packaging products. Our customers increased their inventory
levels of these products during 2004 in order to ensure adequate supplies for
2005 pending approval of the formulation changes.

In our Tech Group segment,
2005 net sales were $170.1 million, with the acquired TGI business accounting
for $98.9 million of segment sales (consisting of healthcare devices $53.7
million, consumer products $22.3 million and tooling projects $22.9 million). Excluding
the results of the acquired business, our previously existing plastic molding
operations yielded net sales of $71.2 million and were 4.7% above 2004 levels.
Increased sales of consumer products, led by increased demand for custom
plastic parts used in juice containers, was partially offset by declines in
healthcare device, tooling and other revenues related to the 2004 closure of
our U.K. medical device facility.


GROSS PROFIT

The
following table summarizes gross profit and gross margin by reportable segment:




($ in millions)

Pharmaceutical Systems:

Gross Profit

$

221.4

$

170.9

$

147.3

Gross Margin

34.4

%

31.7

%

30.6

%

Tech
  Group:

Gross Profit

$

40.4

$

22.9

$

9.8

Gross Margin

14.4

%

13.5

%

14.5

%

Consolidated:

Gross Profit

$

261.8

$

193.8

$

157.1

Gross Margin

28.7

%

27.7

%

29.0

%

2006 compared to

Consolidated gross profit
improved to $261.8 million in 2006, a $68.0 million increase over 2005 results.
The timing of the 2005 acquisitions accounts for $16.1 million ($11.4 million in
the Tech Group segment) of the increase in gross profit as 2006 includes these
businesses for the full twelve month period as compared to partial year periods
in 2005. Increased sales volumes and improvement in the sales product mix in
both segments of our business accounted for nearly all of the non-acquisition
related increase in consolidated gross profit. In the Pharmaceutical Systems
segment our gross margins improved 2.7 percentage points with a favorable
product mix contributing 0.7 percentage points of that increase. Higher sales
volumes and efficiency improvements accounted for the remaining Pharmaceutical
Systems segment gross margin increase, while sales price increases fully offset
higher raw material, plant overhead and utility costs. In the Tech Group
segment, gross margins improved to 14.4%, almost one percentage point higher
than the prior year. An improved product mix, reflecting increased sales of
healthcare devices which accounted for 56% of Tech segment sales in 2006
compared to 45% in 2005, contributed a two percentage point improvement in Tech
segment gross margin; however this was partially offset by higher material,
utility and labor costs which exceeded related sales price increases.

2005 compared to

Consolidated gross profit
improved to $193.8 million in 2005, a $36.7 million increase over 2004 results.
The acquired businesses contributed $15.0 million of the increase in gross
profit, $11.6 million within the Tech Group segment. The Pharmaceutical Systems
segment accounted for the remaining gross profit increase, generated by higher
sales volumes in Europe and improved operating efficiencies in North America
resulting from the resumption of normal molding operations at our re-built
Kinston, North Carolina facility. The impact of the acquired businesses on our
consolidated gross margin in 2005 was a reduction of 2.4 percentage points
reflecting the increase in lower margin revenues within the acquired TGI
business. Gross margins in the Pharmaceutical Systems segment improved by 1.1 percentage
points over the prior year as many of the interim production costs incurred
during the 2004 construction and validation of the new facility were not
incurred during 2005. Overall product mix variances in 2005 were negligible as
the decline in higher margin coated product sales within the Pharmaceutical
systems segment were offset by increased sales of pre-filled syringe systems
and Westar®-processed products with similar margins. 2005 Tech Group segment
gross margins decreased by one percentage point compared to the prior year,
mostly reflecting the increased proportion of tooling revenues within the
acquired business which carry gross margins averaging less than five percent.


SELLING, GENERAL
and ADMINISTRATIVE (“SG&A) COSTS

The
following table summarizes SG&A costs by reportable segment including
corporate and unallocated costs for the three-year period ending December 31,
2006:




($ in millions)

Pharmaceutical
  Systems SG&A costs

$

87.4

$

74.8

$

66.8

Pharmaceutical Systems SG&A as a % of
  segment net sales

13.6

%

13.9

%

13.9

%

Tech Group SG&A costs

$

21.7

$

13.6

$

5.8

Tech Group SG&A as a % of segment net
  sales

7.8

%

8.0

%

8.5

%

Corporate
  costs:

General corporate costs

$

23.9

$

19.8

$

20.2

Stock based compensation costs—unallocated

$

14.5

$

7.0

$

7.4

U.S. pension plan expense

$

8.4

$

5.1

$

5.0

Total Selling, General & Administrative
  costs

$

155.9

$

120.3

$

105.2

Total
  SG&A as a % of total net sales

17.1

%

17.2

%

19.4

%

2006 compared to

Consolidated selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”)
expenses in 2006 were $35.6 million above those recorded in 2005. Approximately
$8.6 million of the increase is due to the timing impact of our acquired
businesses which are included in 2005 for the periods subsequent to their
acquisition and for a full twelve month period in 2006.

In the
Pharmaceutical systems segment, 2006 SG&A expenses were $12.6 million above
the prior year. The timing of the 2005 Medimop acquisition accounts for $2.0
million of this increase. Approximately $3.3 million of the increase was due to
increased staffing and funding for research and innovation projects aimed at
discovering new technologies or developing new applications for existing
processes such as Westar ®, Daikyo’s Resin CZ ® and pre-filled syringes. 2006
compensation costs in Europe and Asia were $1.9 million higher than 2005,
reflecting a combination of annual salary increases, staffing increases in
sales and production support functions, and higher performance based incentive
compensation. Organization and travel costs primarily related to the
establishment of our business in China were $1.5 million higher in 2006
compared to 2005. Foreign currency translation accounted for $1.0 million of
the 2006 SG&A increase. Other expenses associated mostly with higher
facility costs and social taxes accounted for the remaining $2.9 million
increase in Pharmaceutical Systems segment SG&A costs.

2006 Tech Group segment SG&A costs were $8.1
million above the prior year. The timing of the 2005 TGI acquisition accounts
for $6.6 million of the increase. The initial participation in incentive
compensation programs and increased staffing levels in human resource
functions, quality and internal control positions accounted for the remaining
2006 SG&A increase.

General corporate SG&A costs include executive
compensation and other costs, Board of Directors compensation, legal,
compliance, finance and communication expenses. In 2006, these costs were $4.1
million higher than in 2005. As a result of exceeding 2006 performance targets,
incentive compensation awards accounted for $2.5 million of the 2006 increase,
including a $0.6 million increase in award programs for plant administration
and hourly personnel. Other general corporate compensation costs increased $0.9
million due mostly to increased finance and legal staffing and higher salary
and fringe benefit costs. 2006 professional service costs were $0.7 million
above those recorded in 2005 primarily as a result of higher tax consulting
costs connected with prior year tax refund issues.


2006 stock based compensation costs increased by $7.5
million over those incurred in 2005 primarily due to the increase in West
stock-price indexed deferred compensation program costs for our Board of
Directors and a non-qualified deferred compensation plan for executive
management. As of December 31, 2006 these deferred compensation plans held
286,982 stock equivalent units. Our stock price at December 31, 2006 was
$51.23 per share compared to $25.03 per share at December 31, 2005. The
resulting change in the fair value of our stock equivalent unit liabilities
accounts for nearly all of the $7.5 million increase in our stock based
compensation expense. Costs of other stock based compensation programs,
including stock options, performance vesting share rights and employee stock
purchase programs, remained approximately even with prior year levels as
moderately higher stock option compensation was offset by lower costs
associated with the employee stock purchase program

2006 U.S. pension plan
costs were $8.4 million, exceeding 2005 costs by $3.3 million. The increase in
U.S. pension costs is primarily due to changes in actuarial mortality
assumptions. On October 17, 2006 our Board of Directors approved an
amendment to our qualified defined benefit pension plan in the United States.
Under the amended plan, benefits earned under the plan’s pension formulas for
both hourly and salaried participants were frozen as of December 31, 2006.
Effective January 1, 2007, new cash-balance formulas will be implemented
for covered hourly and salaried participants and new hires, pursuant to which a
percentage of a participant’s compensation will be credited to a participant
account each year. Including the impact of these changes, we estimate 2007 U.S.
pension plan expense will be approximately $6.4 million. We expect the decrease
in pension costs to be largely offset by increased costs for our 401(k) savings
plan covering certain salaried and hourly U.S. employees, which was also
amended effective January 1, 2007, resulting in a change in employer
contributions to a 100% match on the first 3% of employee contributions, and a
50% match on the next 2% of employee contributions. In 2006, the Company match
was equal to 50% of each participant’s contribution up to 6% of the participant’s
base compensation.

2005 compared to

2005 consolidated selling, general and administrative
expenses were $15.1 million above those reported in 2004. SG&A costs within
the acquired business units accounted for $9.8 million of the increase; $1.8
million in the Pharmaceutical Systems segment and $8.0 million in the Tech
group segment. Other 2005 increases in Pharmaceutical Systems segment costs
over 2004 are attributed to higher compensation costs of $4.2 million
associated with annual salary increases and sales incentive programs, increased
consulting costs of $1.5 million for information systems projects, ‘lean’
manufacturing programs and marketing studies and unfavorable foreign exchange
variances of $0.5 million. Excluding the impact of the TGI acquisition, other
Tech Group segment SG&A costs decreased by $0.2 million due to lower
consulting costs within our previously existing plastic molding operations.

General corporate costs decreased by $0.4 million in
2005 from 2004 levels primarily as a result of a decrease in legal fees
connected with the 2003 Kinston explosion and related fire.

Stock based compensation costs in 2005 were $0.4
million lower than in 2004.

The 
January 1, 2005 adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard 123 “Share-Based Payment—Revised 2004” (“SFAS 123(R)”) resulted in the
recognition of $2.7 million of SG&A expense connected with our stock option
and employee stock purchase plan programs which did not require expense
recognition in 2004 under previous accounting standards. The adoption impact of
SFAS 123 (R) was more than offset by a $1.7 million decrease in directors
and executive deferred compensation plan expense and a $1.4 million decrease
in costs associated with performance vesting share (“PVS”) rights to senior
management. As previously noted, the value of our deferred compensation plans
is indexed to the Company’s stock price. The increase in our stock price during
2004 resulted in $1.7 million of stock appreciation and compensation expense on
these plans; our stock price remained constant during 2005 beginning and ending
the year at $25.03 per share resulting in no stock-price based appreciation
expense in 2005. The


decrease in PVS costs is
principally connected with the initial 2004 performance award which vested
entirely upon 2004 results rather than the two and three year performance
periods associated with subsequent awards.

2005 U.S. pension plan
expenses were approximately even with 2004 levels.

RESTRUCTURING
CHARGE (BENEFIT)

In 2005 we reached final
settlement of all remaining lease obligations connected with the closure of a
plastic device manufacturing plant in the United Kingdom resulting in the
reduction of previously estimated cost accruals of $1.3 million   In 2004 we ceased all production activities
at the U.K. operation and recorded a $1.0 million restructuring charge for the
excess of future lease costs over expected sub-lease rental income, as well as
additional severance expense and repair costs necessary to return the leased
facility to its original condition. The initial decision to close the U.K.
plant was made in 2003 resulting in a $7 million charge which included
asset-retirement obligations, impairment charges and provisions for statutory
post-employment benefit costs.

OTHER EXPENSE

Other
expense consists of gains and losses on the sale or disposal of equipment and
other assets, foreign exchange transaction items, miscellaneous royalty and
sundry transactions.




($ in millions)

Pharmaceutical
  Systems segment

$

4.3

$

1.1

$

0.9

Tech Group
  segment

0.5

0.2

0.1

Corporate and
  unallocated items

0.1

0.1

0.5

Total other expense

$

4.9

$

1.4

$

1.5

2006 other expenses were
$3.5 million above those recorded in 2005. Our Pharmaceutical Systems segment
recorded a $2.5 million charge connected with the impairment of assets involved
in the production and licensing of one of our reconstitution products following
a substantial reduction in projected orders, causing a decline in our fair
value estimates for this product line. The impairment charge includes a $1.6
million reduction to the value of the dedicated production assets for this
product, a $0.5 million minimum royalty payment called for under our licensing
agreement and a $0.4 million decrease in the value of our licensing rights. The
remaining 2006 versus 2005 other expense increase principally relates to the
sale or disposal of surplus equipment.

OPERATING PROFIT

Operating
profit (loss) by reportable segment, corporate and other unallocated costs were
as follows:




($ in millions)

Pharmaceutical
  Systems

$

129.7

$

95.0

$

79.6

Tech Group

18.2

9.1

3.9

U.S. Pension
  expenses

(8.4

)

(5.1

)

(5.0

)

General corporate
  costs

(24.0

)

(19.9

)

(20.7

)

Stock based
  compensation costs—unallocated

(14.5

)

(7.0

)

(7.4

)

Restructuring
  items

—

1.3

(1.0

)

Consolidated Operating Profit

$

101.0

$

73.4

$

49.4


Our 2006 operating profit increased by $27.6 million,
or 37.5%, over that achieved in 2005. The timing impact of our 2005
acquisitions accounts for $7.1 million of the 2006 operating profit increase;
$2.4 million in the Pharmaceutical Systems segment and $4.7 million in the Tech
Group segment. The remaining increase in operating profit was generated by
sales growth and gross margin improvements in both of our business segments,
partially offset by higher costs associated with deferred compensation obligations
indexed to our stock price.

The businesses acquired
during 2005 contributed $5.2 million (Pharmaceutical Systems $1.7 million and
Tech Group $3.5 million) of the $24.0 million consolidated operating profit
increase over 2004. The remaining 2005 to 2004 operating profit improvement in
the Pharmaceutical Systems segment was principally the result of increased
sales volumes in Europe and lower production costs in the United States
following the resumption of normal production activities at our Kinston facility.
In addition to the impact of the acquired business, 2005 Tech Group segment
operating profit also benefited from cost savings following the closure of the
former U.K. facility.

LOSS ON DEBT
EXTINGUISHMENT

On February 27, 2006 we prepaid $100 million in
senior notes carrying a 6.81% interest rate and a maturity date of April 8,
2009. Under the terms of the original note purchase agreement dated April 8,
1999, the prepayment of the notes entitled note holders to a “make whole”
amount of $5.9 million in order to compensate them for interest rate
differentials between the 6.81% yield on the notes and current market rates for
the remaining term of the note.

The prepayment was
financed by issuing

€

81.5 million
(approximately $100 million) of new senior unsecured notes having a weighted
average maturity of just over nine years at a weighted average interest rate of
4.34%, before costs. The lower-interest notes are expected to reduce annual
pre-tax financing costs by approximately $2.5 million.

INTEREST EXPENSE (NET)

The
following table summarizes our net interest expense for the three-year period
ended December 31, 2006:




($ in millions)

Interest expense

$

13.4

$

14.7

$

9.8

Capitalized
  interest

(0.7

)

(0.6

)

(1.3

)

Interest income

(2.1

)

(2.1

)

(1.5

)

Interest expense (net)

$

10.6

$

12.0

$

7.0

Our 2006 net interest expense decreased $1.4 million
from 2005 levels. The 2006 refinancing of our $100 million senior notes
resulted in interest savings of $2.1 million. These savings were partially
offset by unfavorable interest rate variances on our revolving debt of $0.2
million, and $0.5 million resulting from higher average borrowing levels
associated with the financing and timing of our 2005 business acquisitions.
2006 interest income includes $0.3 million of interest paid to us in connection
with the settlement of tax refund issues.

2005 net interest expense
increased $5.0 million over the prior year. Higher average borrowing levels
resulting from our 2005 acquisition activity accounted for $4.0 million of the
interest expense increase. The remaining $1.0 million increase in 2005 interest
expense was caused by higher interest rates on variable rate borrowings under
our revolving credit facility.


INCOME TAXES

The effective tax rate on consolidated income from
continuing operations was 29.1% in 2006, 29.0% in 2005 and 27.2% in 2004. Income
tax expense in 2006 includes a net $0.7 million favorable adjustment primarily
resulting from the closure of the 2002 U.S. federal tax audit year and a $0.4
million tax benefit resulting from a tax refund associated with the disposition
of our former plastic molding facility in Puerto Rico. The combined impact of
these two items reduced our 2006 effective tax rate by 1.4 percentage points.

In 2005 we repatriated $166.0 million in earnings from
foreign subsidiaries to the United States parent companies. The foreign
repatriations were made in accordance with the provisions of the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 (“AJCA”). The AJCA provided a temporary incentive for U.S.
multi-national companies to repatriate accumulated income earned in controlled
foreign corporations by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction on
qualified distributions occurring before December 31, 2005. Our 2005 results
include a $1.5 million net tax charge ($5.2 million gross tax cost, less $2.4
million of foreign tax credits and $1.3 million in previously established
accruals for unremitted earnings) incurred in connection with the repatriation
program which increased our overall 2005 effective tax rate by 2.5 percentage
points. The 2005 restructuring credit in the U.K. allowed us to utilize prior
year loss carry-forwards and therefore decreased our 2005 effective tax rate by
0.6 percentage points. In addition, we reduced tax contingencies connected with
the closure of tax years in certain international locations resulting in a 2.8
percentage point reduction in the 2005 effective tax rate.

The 2004 effective tax
rate was favorably impacted by the utilization of foreign tax credits on the
filing of a prior year U.S. tax return, a change in French tax law extending
the life of net operating loss carry-forwards and the reversal of reserves
attributable to the closing of tax years. The combined impact of these items,
offset partially by the non-deductible restructuring charge, resulted in a 4.3
percentage point reduction in the 2004 effective tax rate.

EQUITY IN
AFFILIATES

The contribution to earnings from our 25% ownership
interest in Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. in Japan and 49% ownership interest in three
companies in Mexico was income of $1.9 million, $2.4 million and $3.4 million
for the years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our 2006 equity income from
Daikyo was $0.1 million below that recorded in 2005. Daikyo’s 2006 sales and
operating growth were approximately 8% above those achieved in 2005; however
the increase in the US dollar relative to the Japanese yen fully offset the
operational gains. Daikyo’s 2006 results include a $0.7 million loss related to
a decision by Daikyo to demolish an existing facility in order to proceed with
the construction of a new plant. The charge was largely offset by an unrelated
gain on an investment security. Our 2006 equity income from our Mexican
affiliates declined $0.4 million from 2005 levels following the transfer of
some customer products to our fully-owned plant in Kinston, North Carolina.

Our 2005 equity income was $1.0 million lower than
that achieved in 2004 primarily due to the impact on Daikyo’s results of
customer purchases during 2004 of a product in advance of a pending FDA
approval of a required product reformulation. The increased customer inventory
levels accumulated during 2004 resulted in lower sales levels for Daikyo in
2005 as customers utilized existing inventory pending validation of the new
formulation. The 2005 operating results of the Mexican affiliates improved on
strong sales growth generating results equal to those recorded in 2004 which
included a non-operating $0.6 million gain on the sale of real estate.

Our purchases from all
affiliates totaled approximately $24.1 million in 2006, $20.6 million in 2005
and $28.6 million in 2004, the majority of which relates to our distributorship
agreement with Daikyo which allows us to purchase and re-sell Daikyo products.
Sales to affiliates were $0.8 million, $0.5 million and $0.6 million in 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.


INCOME FROM
CONTINUING OPERATIONS

2006 net income from continuing operations was $61.5
million, or $1.83 per diluted share. Our 2006 results include a pre-tax $5.9
million loss on debt extinguishment ($4.1 million net of tax, or $0.12 per
diluted share) and the favorable resolution of a claim for a tax refund
associated with the disposition of our former plastic molding facility in
Puerto Rico resulting in the recognition in income from continuing operations
of $0.6 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, consisting of a $0.4 million tax
benefit and related interest income, net of tax, of $0.2 million.

Our 2005 net income from continuing operations was
$46.0 million, or $1.41 per diluted share. These results included incremental
income tax expense of $1.5 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, associated with
the repatriation of foreign sourced income under the American Jobs Creation Act
of 2004. Results for 2005 also include a restructuring credit which increased
net income from continuing operations by $1.3 million, or $.04 per diluted
share.

Net income from continuing
operations in 2004 was $34.3 million, or $1.11 per diluted share. Results for
2004 include incremental manufacturing costs of $11.6 million ($7.9 million,
net of tax, or $0.26 per diluted share) associated with the interim production
processes that were put in place following a 2003 explosion and fire at our
Kinston N.C. plant. 2004 results also include Kinston-related legal expenses of
$1.7 million ($1.2 million net of tax, or $0.04 per diluted share). The closure
of a manufacturing plant in the U.K. resulted in 2004 restructuring charges of
$1.0 million ($0.03 per diluted share). Equity income included a $0.6 million
($0.02 per diluted share) real estate gain. 2004 results also include $2.1
million ($0.07 per diluted share) of favorable tax adjustments resulting from
utilization of foreign tax credits on the filing of a prior year tax return and
a change in French tax legislation. Prior to the adoption of

SFAS 123(R) on
January 1, 2005 we had accounted for stock compensation using the
intrinsic value method. Had the fair value method prescribed by SFAS 123(R) been
applied to earlier periods, our results would have included additional pre-tax
stock compensation costs for stock options and the employee stock purchase plan
of $1.8 million ($1.2 million net of tax, or $.04 per diluted share) for the
year ended December 31, 2004.

DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS

Our 2006 income from discontinued
operations was $5.6 million, or $0.17 per diluted share. As a result of a
favorable outcome to our claim for tax benefits relating to the 2001 sale of
our former contract manufacturing and packaging business, we received a tax
refund resulting in the recognition of a $4.0 million tax benefit. The
settlement of this claim also resulted in pre-tax interest income of $0.6
million ($0.4 million after taxes). We also recognized a $1.2 million favorable
adjustment to tax accruals associated with our former Drug Delivery Systems
segment primarily as a result of the closure of the 2002 U.S. federal tax audit
year.

2005 income from discontinued operations was $0.4
million, or $0.01 per diluted share. The majority of the income was generated
from the August 2005 sale of the clinical services unit (pre-tax gain of
$0.7 million, $0.5 million net of tax). Operating losses and other costs
associated with the sale of our former drug delivery business completed in the
first quarter of 2005 totaled $1.9 million ($1.1 million, net of tax), more
than offsetting the operating income of $1.6 million ($1.0 million, net of tax)
generated by the clinical services unit prior to its divestiture.

In December 2004, we
entered into an agreement to sell our drug delivery business. The sales price
consisted of $7.1 million receivable due in cash at the 2005 closing date and a
14% ownership interest in the new company valued at $1.0 million. As a result
of the transaction, we recorded a pre-tax loss of $4.7 million ($5.2 million
after-tax, or $0.17 per diluted share). The $0.5 million net tax expense was
primarily the result of the reversal of current and prior year tax benefits
that were no longer available as a result of the transaction. In December 2004
we also announced our intention to exit the clinical services business.


The
operating results of the drug delivery business and clinical service unit are
classified within discontinued operations for all periods presented. The
pre-tax loss from the discontinued drug delivery and clinical services
operations was $13.5 million for 2004.

FINANCIAL
CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash flows generated from operations totaled $139.4
million in 2006, compared to $85.6 million in 2005. Our growth in operating
cash flow was led by Pharmaceutical Systems North American operations which
generated strong operating profit growth while reducing working capital levels.
Operating cash flow in Pharmaceutical System’s Europe/Asia operating segment
and our Tech Group segment also improved over prior year levels, moderated by
higher inventory requirements.

Consolidated
capital spending for 2006 totaled $90.3 million, a $36.2 million increase over
2005 capital spending. 2006 capital spending in our Pharmaceutical Systems segment
accounted for $24.0 million of the increase, with $19.0 million of the increase
occurring in Europe and Asia. In addition to the initial spending on plant
expansions throughout Europe and Asia, major projects included new presses used
in the production of our TrimTec ® closures for I.V. bottles, additional rubber
compression molding equipment and increased Westar ® capacity in Germany; a new
vision inspection process in France; additional equipment for lining materials
used in insulin packaging in Denmark and the purchase of land for an expanded
administration building in Germany. In the Tech Group segment, 2006 capital
spending was $13.5 million more than in 2005, with the relocation and expansion
of a plant in Michigan accounting for 75% of the increase. 2006 general
corporate and other projects declined by $1.3 million from prior year levels.

2006 and 2005 cash flows provided by investing
operations each include a $0.2 million loan repayment received from our
affiliate in Mexico. In 2005 net cash of $174.8 million was used to acquire
Monarch, TGI, and Medimop. Cash provided by investing activities in 2004
includes $31.8 million of insurance proceeds related to the Kinston accident,
which helped to fund the reconstruction of the new facility.

Cash flows used in financing activities include the
prepayment of $100.0 million of 6.81% senior notes on February 27, 2006.
We financed the prepayment by issuing

€

81.5 million of new senior
unsecured notes with a USD value of approximately $100.0 million.

€

20.4
million of the notes have a maturity of 7 years with an interest rate of 4.215%
while the remaining

€

61.1
million of the notes have a maturity of 10 years and an interest rate of 4.38%.
Our strong operating cash flow in 2006 has allowed us to reduce borrowing under
our revolving credit agreements by $57.7 million from year end 2005 levels.

Financing cash flows in 2006 include proceeds from
stock option exercises and related tax benefits totaling $15.3 million. Dividends
paid to shareholders were $15.9 million ($0.49 per share). The Board of
Directors intends to continue the practice of declaring dividends following
their quarterly review of the West Pharmaceutical Services Inc.’s financial
condition and results of operations. Management expects that cash flows from
continuing operations, net of capital spending requirements, will provide
sufficient funding for the current dividend policy.


The
following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31,
2006, and the effect the obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and
cash flow in future periods:

Payments Due By Period

Less

than

1 year

1 to 3

years

3 to 5

years

More

than

5 years

Total

($ in millions)

Unconditional
  purchase obligations

$

3.2

$

0.4

$

—

$

—

$

3.6

Long-term debt

0.5

0.1

53.6

182.1

236.3

Interest on
  long-term debt(1)

10.5

21.0

19.5

22.5

73.5

Operating lease
  obligations

10.7

19.8

12.7

21.0

64.2

Pensions/other
  post-retirement obligations

1.6

5.0

6.1

30.1

42.8

Total contractual
  obligations

$

26.5

$

46.3

$

91.9

$

255.7

$

420.4

(1)

Future interest payments
on variable-rate debt were calculated using the applicable ending interest rate
at December 31, 2006.

We have letters of credit totaling $5.6 million
supporting the reimbursement of workers’ compensation and other claims paid on
our behalf by insurance carriers and to guarantee equipment lease payments in
Ireland and the payment of sales tax liabilities in the United States. The
accrual for insurance obligations was $2.4 million at December 31, 2006.

At December 31, 2006
our consolidated debt was $236.3 million and our debt-to-total invested capital
(total debt, minority interests and shareholders’ equity) ratio was 36.0%
compared to 45.0% at December 31, 2005. Our cash and cash equivalents
balance was $47.1 million at December 31, 2006, compared to $48.8 million
at December 31, 2005. Our December 31, 2006 net working capital
totaled $124.8 million and the ratio of current assets to liabilities was 1.8
to 1. We believe that our financial condition, current capitalization and
expected income from operations will continue to be sufficient to meet our
future expected cash requirements.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET
AGREEMENTS

At December 31, 2006,
the Company had no off-balance sheet financing arrangements other than
operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations incurred in the
ordinary course of business and outstanding letters of credit related to
various insurance programs and leased equipment and sales tax liability guarantees
as noted above.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING
POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Management’s discussion and analysis addresses
consolidated financial statements that are prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The application
of these principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions, some
of which are subjective and complex, that affect the amounts reported in the
consolidated financial statements. Management believes the following accounting
policies and estimates are critical to understanding and evaluating the results
of operations and financial position of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.:

REVENUE
RECOGNITION:

The majority of our revenue is
generated from our standard product manufacturing operations which convert
rubber, metal, and plastic raw materials into component parts used in closure
systems and syringe components for use with injectable drugs and drug delivery
devices. Sales of manufactured components are recorded at the time title and
risk of loss passes to the customer. Some customers receive pricing rebates
upon attaining established sales volumes. Management records rebate costs based
on its assessment of the likelihood that these volumes will be attained. We
also establish


product return liabilities
for customer quality claims when such amounts are deemed probable and can be
reasonably estimated.

Approximately 5% of our revenue is generated by the construction
of tools, molds or automation equipment. These projects generally take several
months to complete and utilize West’s experienced personnel and wholly owned
tool shops. We record revenue on a percentage of completion basis utilizing the
ratio of actual cost incurred over total costs estimated for each project.
Additionally, if at any time during the life of a project, it is determined
that the estimated project cost will exceed the purchase commitment from the
customer, the entire amount of the estimated loss is recorded immediately.

IMPAIRMENT
OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS:

We review goodwill and
long-lived assets annually and whenever circumstances indicate that the
carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for
impairment as part of the reporting unit to which it belongs. Our reporting
units are the same as our operating segments, which we have determined to be
the Americas and Europe/Asia Pacific divisions of the Pharmaceutical Systems
segment, and the Tech Group segment. For assets held and used in the business,
management estimates the future cash flows to be derived from the related asset
or business unit. When assets are held for sale, management determines fair
value by estimating the anticipated proceeds to be received upon the sale of
the asset, less disposition costs. Changes in the estimate of fair value,
including the estimate of future cash flows, could have a material impact on
our future results of operations and financial position.

EMPLOYEE
BENEFITS:

The measurement of the obligations
under our defined benefit pension and postretirement medical plans are subject
to a number of assumptions. These include the rate of return on plan assets and
the rate at which the future obligations are discounted to present value. For
U.S. plans, which account for 90% of global plan assets, the long-term rate of
return assumption decreased to 8.0% in 2006 from 8.75% in 2005. In 2007, the
long-term rate of return assumption remains 8.00%. The return assumption is
reviewed annually and determined by the projected return for the expected mix
of plan assets (approximately 65% equity and 35% debt securities). The discount
rate increased 25 basis points to 5.9% at December 31, 2006, to reflect
current market conditions. The discount rate selected is the single rate
equivalent for a theoretical portfolio of high quality corporate bonds that
produces a cash flow pattern equivalent to the plans’ projected benefit
payments. Changes in these estimates, including the market performance of plan
assets and other actuarial assumptions, could have a material impact on our
future results of operations and financial position. Every 25 basis point
reduction in the long-term rate of return assumption would increase pension
expense by approximately $0.5 million. A 25 basis point reduction in the
discount rate would increase pension expense by approximately $0.7 million.

As described more fully in Note 14 to our consolidated
financial statements,

Benefit Plans

,
included within Item 8 of this 2006 Form 10-K, we amended the
benefit formulas used in our U.S. defined benefit plans, resulting in a $18.8
million reduction in our projected benefit obligations. The impact of the plan
amendment will be recognized as a reduction to pension expense over a 12 year
period representing the estimated average remaining service period of plan
participants affected by the amendment.

On December 31, 2006, we adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
88, 106, and 132(R)” (“SFAS 158”). The new standard requires the recognition of
an asset or liability for the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined
benefit postretirement plan as measured by the difference between the fair
value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. For a pension plan, the
benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation; for any other
postretirement plan, such as a retiree health plan, the benefit obligation is
the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. The adoption of SFAS 158
resulted in a reduction of shareholders’ equity of $19.7 million ($32.0 million
pre-tax, less a $12.3 million deferred tax benefit) at December 31, 2006.


INCOME
TAXES:

We estimate income taxes payable based
upon current domestic and international tax legislation. In addition, deferred
income tax assets and liabilities are established to recognize differences
between the tax basis and financial statement carrying values of assets and
liabilities. We maintain valuation allowances where it is more likely than not
that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. The
recoverability of tax assets is subject to our estimates of future
profitability, generally at the local subsidiary company and country level.
Changes in tax legislation, business plans and other factors may affect the
ultimate recoverability of tax assets or final tax payments, which could result
in adjustments to tax expense in the period such change is determined.

In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes”, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 “Accounting
for Income Taxes” (FIN 48). This interpretation clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements. FIN 48
prescribes a more-likely-than-not threshold for financial statement recognition
and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax
return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification,
interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and income tax
disclosures. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006. The provisions of this interpretation must be applied to all tax
positions upon initial adoption of FIN 48. The cumulative effect of applying
the provisions of FIN 48 must be reported as an adjustment to the opening
balance of retained earnings for that fiscal year. Management is in the process
of determining what impact, if any, the adoption of FIN 48 will have on our
financial statements.

INVENTORIES:

Accounting for inventories involves estimates
regarding the proper determination of manufacturing cost, obsolescence and
identifying inventory values that exceed estimated market values. The
determination of manufacturing cost includes the identification of direct
material costs and allocations of direct labor, variable production costs and
overhead. Allocations of fixed overhead costs are based on estimates of normal
capacity and require judgment when production levels are below normal so that
idle capacity costs are expensed in the period incurred. The valuation of
inventories is also subject to usage or ‘flow’ assumptions.

During the first quarter of 2006, we changed our
method of inventory costing from last-in-first-out (LIFO) to
first-in-first-out (FIFO) for certain inventory located in the United States,
which accounted for approximately 30% of our total consolidated inventory at December 31,
2005. The majority (70%) of our inventory had already been accounted for under,
primarily, the FIFO method. The change was made to facilitate a comparison of
our financial results with those of our principal competitors and customers on
such measures as inventory levels and turnover, gross margin and operating
earnings. We also believe that using the FIFO method provides a better match of
expenses and revenues and provides a more consistent inventory costing method
within our operating segments; thus, the change in accounting was considered
preferable. The impact of the change has been applied retrospectively and the
financial statements have been adjusted for all prior periods presented. See
additional discussion in Note 1,

Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies

, of the Notes to Consolidated Financials
Statements.

Please refer to Note 1,

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

, and Note 19,

New Accounting Standards

, of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included within Item 8 of this report for additional
information on accounting and reporting standards considered in the preparation
and presentation of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.’s financial
statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

.

We are exposed to various
market risk factors such as fluctuating interest rates and foreign currency
rate fluctuations. These risk factors can impact results of operations, cash
flows and financial position. From time to time, we manage these risks using
derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and forward
exchange contracts. Derivatives used by us are highly effective as all of the
critical terms of the


derivative
instruments match the hedged item. Effectiveness is measured on a quarterly
basis. In accordance with Company policy, derivative financial instruments are
not used for speculation or trading purposes. All debt securities and
derivative instruments are considered non-trading.

Foreign
Currency Exchange Risk

We have subsidiaries outside the U.S. accounting for
approximately 49% of consolidated net sales. Virtually all of these sales and
related operating costs are denominated in the currency of the local country
and translated into U.S. dollars. Although the majority of the assets and
liabilities of these subsidiaries are in the local currency of the subsidiary
and are therefore translated into U.S. dollars, the foreign subsidiaries may
also hold assets or liabilities not denominated in their local currency. These
items may give rise to foreign currency transaction gains and losses. As a
result, our results of operations and financial position are exposed to
changing exchange rates. We periodically use forward contracts to hedge certain
transactions or to neutralize month-end balance sheet exposures on
cross-currency intercompany loans.

As of December 31, 2006 we have a
forward-exchange contract of $0.65 million ending on January 11, 2007 that
protects us against the variability in future cash flows related to raw
material purchases by European subsidiaries denominated in U.S. dollars (USD). The
terms of the arrangement set a base rate of 1.22 USD per Euro and a limit rate
of 1.35 USD per Euro. We are protected against a strengthening USD by
restricting the exchange rate to the base rate. We would participate in gains
caused by a weakening USD up to the limit rate. If the limit rate is exceeded
at the expiration date, the Company agrees to buy USD at the base rate for that
month. There are no cash payments required and no income statement effect of an
exchange rate between the base and limit rates. As of December 31, 2006
the Euro was equal to 1.31 USD.

We have designated our

€

81.5
million debt as a hedge of our investment in the net assets of our European
operations. A $7.0 million cumulative foreign currency translation loss on the

€

81.5
million debt is recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31,
2006. We also have a 2.7 billion Yen-denominated note payable which has been
designated as a hedge of our investment in a Japanese affiliate. At December 31,
2006, a foreign exchange translation gain on the Yen-denominated debt of less
than $0.1 million is included within accumulated other comprehensive income.


Interest
Rate Risk

As a
result of our normal borrowing activities, we are exposed to fluctuations in
interest rates which we manage primarily through our financing activities. We
have long-term debt with both fixed and variable interest rates. Long-term debt
consists of senior notes, revolving credit facilities and capital lease
obligations. Portions of long-term debt which are payable during 2007 are
classified as short-term liabilities as of December 31, 2006. The
following table summarizes our interest rate risk-sensitive instruments:






Thereafter

Carrying

Value

Fair

Value

($ in millions)

Current Debt and
  Capital Leases:

Euro denominated

$

0.5

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

0.5

$

0.5

Average interest rate—fixed

5.3

%

—

—

—

—

—

Long-Term Debt and Capital Leases:

U.S. dollar
  denominated(1)

—

—

—

—

—

$

75.0

$

75.0

$

75.0

Average interest rate—variable

—

—

—

—

—

6.2

%

U.S. dollar
  denominated

—

—

—

—

$

15.0

—

$

15.0

$

15.0

Average interest rate—variable

—

—

—

—

6.0

%

—

Euro denominated

—

$

0.1

—

$

0.7

—

$

107.1

$

107.9

$

94.8

Average interest rate—fixed

—

5.0

%

—

5.5

%

—

4.3

%

Euro denominated

—

—

—

—

$

6.6

—

$

6.6

$

6.6

Average interest rate—variable

—

—

—

—

4.3

%

—

Krone denominated

—

—

—

—

$

8.6

—

$

8.6

$

8.6

Average interest rate—variable

—

—

—

—

4.5

%

—

Yen denominated

—

—

—

—

$

22.7

—

$

22.7

$

22.7

Average interest
  rate—variable

—

—

—

—

1.0

%

—

(1)

As of December 31,
2006 we have two interest rate swap agreements outstanding which are designed
to protect against volatility in variable interest rates payable on a $50.0
million note maturing on July 28, 2012 (“Series A Note”) and a $25.0
million note maturing July 28, 2015 (“Series B Note”). The first
interest-rate swap agreement has a notional amount of $50.0 million and
corresponds to the maturity date of the Series A Note and the second
interest rate swap agreement has a notional amount of $25.0 million and
corresponds with the maturity date of the Series B Note. Under each of the
swap agreements we will receive variable interest rate payments based on
three-month LIBOR in return for making quarterly fixed payments. Including the
applicable margin, the interest-rate swap agreements effectively fix the
interest rates payable on Series A and B notes payable at 5.32% and 5.51%,
respectively. At December 31, 2006, the interest rate-swap agreements had
a fair value of $1.9 million favorable to the Company and are recorded as a
non-current asset.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF INCOME

West Pharmaceutical
Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries

for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and


2005*

2004*

(in millions, except per share data)

Net sales

$

913.3

$

699.7

$

541.6

Cost of goods and
  services sold

651.5

505.9

384.5

Gross profit

261.8

193.8

157.1

Selling, general
  and administrative expenses

155.9

120.3

105.2

Restructuring
  charge (benefit)

—

(1.3

)

1.0

Other expense
  (income), net

4.9

1.4

1.5

Operating profit

101.0

73.4

49.4

Loss on debt
  extinguishment

5.9

—

—

Interest expense

12.7

14.1

8.5

Interest income

(2.1

)

(2.1

)

(1.5

)

Income before income taxes and minority interests

84.5

61.4

42.4

Provision for
  income taxes

24.6

17.7

11.5

Minority
  interests

0.3

0.1

—

Income from consolidated operations

59.6

43.6

30.9

Equity in net
  income of affiliated companies

1.9

2.4

3.4

Income from continuing operations

61.5

46.0

34.3

Pretax income
  (loss) from discontinued operations

0.6

(0.3

)

(13.5

)

Pretax gain
  (loss) on disposal of business segment

—

0.7

(4.7

)

Income tax
  benefit from discontinued operations

5.0

—

4.1

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

5.6

0.4

(14.1

)

Net income

$

67.1

$

46.4

$

20.2

Net income (loss) per
  share:

Basic

Continuing operations

$

1.91

$

1.48

$

1.14

Discontinued operations

.18

.01

(.47

)

$

2.09

$

1.49

$

.67

Assuming dilution

Continuing operations

$

1.83

$

1.41

$

1.11

Discontinued operations

.17

.01

(.46

)

$

2.00

$

1.42

$

.65

Average common
  shares outstanding

32.2

31.1

30.0

Average shares
  assuming dilution

33.6

32.5

30.8

Dividends declared per
  common share

$

.50

$

.46

$

.43

*

Adjusted retrospectively
for the change in method of inventory costing (see Note 1).

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
Subsidiaries

for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


2005*

2004*

(in millions)

Net income

$

67.1

$

46.4

$

20.2

Other comprehensive income,
  net of tax:

Foreign currency translation adjustments

20.5

(29.8

)

19.2

Unrealized gains on securities of affiliates

0.6

1.1

0.3

Minimum pension liability adjustments

(0.1

)

0.5

(2.0

)

Unrealized gains on derivatives

0.4

0.7

—

Other
  comprehensive income, net of tax

21.4

(27.5

)

17.5

Comprehensive income

$

88.5

$

18.9

$

37.7

*

Adjusted
retrospectively for the change in method of inventory costing (see Note 1).

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries at December 31,
2006 and 2005


2005*

(in millions, except

per share data)

ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash, including cash
  equivalents

$

47.1

$

48.8

Accounts receivable

109.5

107.4

Inventories

97.5

71.1

Income tax refundable

1.0

3.1

Deferred income taxes

5.3

2.4

Other current assets

21.3

14.3

Total current assets

281.7

247.1

Property, plant and
  equipment

757.4

647.2

Less accumulated
  depreciation and amortization

372.7

319.2

Property, plant and
  equipment, net

384.7

328.0

Investments in and
  advances to affiliated companies

29.7

27.7

Goodwill

102.8

89.5

Pension asset

12.1

47.1

Deferred income taxes

29.8

8.3

Intangible assets, net

66.3

69.7

Restricted cash

—

7.1

Other assets

11.1

9.0

Total Assets

$

918.2

$

833.5

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Notes payable and other
  current debt

$

0.5

$

0.3

Accounts payable

61.2

45.8

Pension and other
  postretirement benefits

1.6

1.0

Accrued expenses:

Salaries, wages and
  benefits

35.3

25.7

Income taxes payable

17.7

15.9

Restructuring costs

—

0.2

Deferred income taxes

2.7

8.3

Other

37.9

31.1

Total current liabilities

156.9

128.3

Long-term debt

235.8

280.7

Deferred income taxes

43.5

31.9

Pension and other
  postretirement benefits

41.2

34.9

Other long-term
  liabilities

21.5

13.7

Total Liabilities

498.9

489.5

Commitments and
  contingencies

—

—

Minority interests

4.8

4.1

Shareholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, shares
  authorized: 3.0 million; shares issued and outstanding: 2006—0; 2005—0

—

—

Common stock, par value
  $.25 per share; shares authorized: 50.0 million; shares issued: 34.3 million
  in 2006 and 2005 shares outstanding: 2006—32.9 million; 2005—31.8 million

8.6

8.6

Capital in excess of par
  value

52.8

39.3

Retained earnings

375.7

325.0

Accumulated other
  comprehensive income

10.6

8.9

Treasury stock, at cost
  (2006—1.4 million shares; 2005 - 2.6 million shares)

(33.2

)

(41.9

)

Total shareholders’
  equity

414.5

339.9

Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity

$

918.2

$

833.5

*

Adjusted retrospectively
for the change in method of inventory costing (see Note 1).

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
Subsidiaries

for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Common Stock

Capital in

Accumulated

other

Treasury Stock

Number of

shares

Common

Stock

excess of

par value

Retained

earnings

comprehensive

income (loss)

Number

of shares

Treasury

Stock

Total

(in millions, except per share data)

Balance,
  December 31, 2003*

34.3

$

8.6

$

25.8

$

286.0

$

18.9

(5.1

)

$

(76.9

)

$

262.4

Net income*

20.2

20.2

Shares issued
  under stock plans

(1.3

)

1.5

21.1

19.8

Shares
  repurchased

—

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Cash dividends
  declared ($.43 per share)

(13.1

)

(13.1

)

Changes—other
  comprehensive income

17.5

17.5

Balance,
  December 31, 2004*

34.3

$

8.6

$

24.5

$

293.1

$

36.4

(3.6

)

$

(55.9

)

$

306.7

Net income*

46.4

46.4

Shares issued for
  business acquisitions

2.4

0.2

3.0

5.4

Shares issued
  under stock plans

8.1

0.8

11.1

19.2

Tax benefit from
  stock plans

4.3

4.3

Shares repurchased

—

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Cash dividends
  declared ($.46 per share)

(14.5

)

(14.5

)

Changes—other
  comprehensive income

(27.5

)

(27.5

)

Balance,
  December 31, 2005*

34.3

$

8.6

$

39.3

$

325.0

$

8.9

(2.6

)

$

(41.9

)

$

339.9

Net income

67.1

67.1

Shares issued
  under stock plans

2.6

1.2

8.7

11.3

Tax benefit from
  stock plans

10.9

10.9

Cash dividends
  declared ($.50 per share)

(16.4

)

(16.4

)

Changes—other
  comprehensive income

21.4

21.4

Adjustment to
  initially apply SFAS 158, net of tax

(19.7

)

(19.7

)

Balance,
  December 31, 2006

34.3

$

8.6

$

52.8

$

375.7

$

10.6

(1.4

)

$

(33.2

)

$

414.5

*

Adjusted
retrospectively for the change in method of inventory costing (see Note 1).

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
Subsidiaries

for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


2005*

2004*

(in millions)

Cash flows provided by
  operating activities:

Net income

$

67.1

$

46.4

$

20.2

Adjustments
  to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities of
  continuing operations:

(Gain) loss from discontinued operations, net of tax

(5.6

)

(0.4

)

14.1

Depreciation

48.1

40.5

30.3

Amortization

4.6

6.9

2.9

Stock-based compensation

14.5

8.0

7.4

Loss on sales of equipment and asset impairments

4.0

0.6

1.5

Deferred income taxes

4.9

2.7

(2.5

)

Pension and other retirement plans

8.9

3.7

4.8

Equity in undistributed earnings of affiliates, net
  of dividends

(1.9

)

(2.3

)

(3.3

)

Changes
  in assets/liabilities, net of discontinued operations and acquisitions:

Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable

2.8

(13.3

)

3.6

(Increase) decrease in inventories

(22.8

)

(0.8

)

(8.1

)

Increase in other current assets

(3.1

)

(0.8

)

(8.1

)

Increase (decrease) in accounts payable

15.8

7.1

(1.9

)

Changes in other assets and liabilities

2.1

(12.7

)

13.7

Insurance proceeds, net of costs, related to Kinston
  accident

—

—

6.4

Net cash provided by operating activities

139.4

85.6

81.0

Cash flows used in
  investing activities:

Property, plant and equipment acquired

(90.3

)

(54.1

)

(57.4

)

Insurance proceeds received for property damage

—

—

31.8

Proceeds from sale of assets

0.2

1.3

0.5

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired

—

(174.8

)

—

Repayments from affiliate

0.2

0.2

0.6

Net cash used in investing activities

(89.9

)

(227.4

)

(24.5

)

Cash flows (used in)
  provided by financing activities:

(Repayments) borrowings under revolving credit
  agreements, net

(57.7

)

131.6

(16.9

)

Payment of fees under revolving credit agreements

—

(1.0

)

(0.5

)

Prepayment of senior notes

(100.0

)

—

—

Issuance of senior unsecured notes

100.1

—

—

Changes in other debt, including overdrafts

(2.0

)

(10.0

)

1.4

Excess tax benefit from stock option exercises

10.9

2.6

—

Issuance of common stock

4.4

11.5

13.5

Dividend payments

(15.9

)

(14.1

)

(12.8

)

Purchase of treasury stock

—

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities

(60.2

)

120.5

(15.4

)

Cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities
  of discontinued operations

4.4

(5.8

)

(11.9

)

Cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities
  of discontinued operations

—

13.3

(0.2

)

Net cash provided by (used in) discontinued
  operations

4.4

7.5

(12.1

)

Effect of exchange rates on cash

4.6

(6.2

)

2.0

Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents

(1.7

)

(20.0

)

31.0

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

48.8

68.8

37.8

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

47.1

$

48.8

$

68.8

Supplemental
  cash flow information:

Interest paid, net of amounts capitalized

$

14.0

$

13.2

$

8.5

Income taxes paid

$

15.0

$

17.6

$

7.6

*

Adjusted retrospectively for the change in method of
inventory costing (see Note 1).

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(in millions, except share and per share data)

Note 1:   Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis
of Presentation:

The financial statements are
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States. These principles require management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue
and expenses and the disclosure of contingencies in the financial statements.
Actual amounts realized may differ from these estimates.

Principles
of Consolidation:

The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
its majority-owned subsidiaries (which may be referred to as “West”, the “Company”,
“we”, “us” or “our”) after the elimination of intercompany transactions. We
have no participation or other rights in variable interest entities.

Reclassification:

Certain
reclassifications were made to prior period financial statements to be
consistent with the current year presentation.

Cash
and Cash Equivalents:

Cash equivalents include
time deposits, certificates of deposit and all highly liquid debt instruments
with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase.

Accounts
Receivable:

Our accounts receivable balance at December 31,
2006 and 2005 was net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $0.9 million and
$1.0 million, respectively. We record the allowance based on a specific
identification methodology.

Inventories:

Inventories
are valued at the lower of cost or market. During the first quarter of 2006, we
changed our method of inventory costing from last-in-first-out (LIFO) to
first-in-first-out (FIFO) for certain inventory located in the United States,
which accounted for approximately 30% of our total consolidated inventory at December 31,
2005. The majority of our inventory had already been accounted for under,
primarily, the FIFO method. The change was made to facilitate a comparison of
our financial results with those of our principal competitors and customers on
such measures as inventory levels and turnover, gross margin and operating
earnings. We also believe that using the FIFO method provides a better match of
expenses and revenues and provides a more consistent inventory costing method
within our operating segments; thus, the change in accounting was considered
preferable.

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard No. 154, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections” (“SFAS 154”),
the impact of this change has been applied retrospectively and the financial
statements have been adjusted for all prior periods presented. The Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005 has been adjusted to reflect an
increase in inventories of $9.9 million, an increase in the current deferred
income tax liability of $3.5 million and an increase in retained earnings of
$6.4 million. Retained earnings at December 31, 2004 and 2003, presented
in the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity, has been adjusted to
reflect an increase of $5.6 million and $4.8 million, respectively. For both
2005 and 2004, cost of goods and services sold decreased by $1.2 million,
income before income taxes and minority interest increased by $1.2 million,
income tax expense was increased by $0.4 million, and net income was increased
by $0.8 million. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for both 2005 and
2004, the increase in net income of $0.8 million was offset by corresponding
changes in inventory of $1.2 million and in deferred income taxes of $0.4
million, resulting in no impact to net cash provided by operating activities.
The accounting change from LIFO to FIFO did not have a material effect on the
2006 results of operations.

Employee
Benefits:

The measurement of the obligations
under our defined benefit pension and postretirement medical plans are subject
to a number of assumptions. These include the rate of return on


plan assets and the rate
at which the future obligations are discounted to present value. On October 17,
2006, we amended the benefit formulas used in our U.S. defined benefit plans,
resulting in an $18.8 million reduction in our projected benefit obligations. The
impact of this plan amendment will be recognized as a reduction to pension
expense over a 12 year period representing the estimated average remaining
service period of plan participants affected by the amendment.

On December 31, 2006, we adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
88, 106, and 132(R)” (“SFAS 158”). The new standard requires the recognition of
an asset or liability for the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined
benefit postretirement plan as measured by the difference between the fair
value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. For a pension plan, the
benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation; for any other
postretirement plan, such as a retiree health plan, the benefit obligation is
the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. The adoption of SFAS 158
resulted in a reduction of shareholders’ equity of $19.7 million ($32.0 million
pre-tax, less a $12.3 million deferred tax benefit) at December 31, 2006. See
Note 14,

Benefit Plans

, for a more detailed
discussion of our pension and other retirement plans.

Foreign
Currency Translation:

Foreign currency
transaction gains and losses and translation gains and losses of subsidiaries
operating in high-inflation economies are recognized in the determination of
net income. Foreign currency translation adjustments of other subsidiaries and
affiliates operating outside the U.S. are accumulated in other comprehensive
income, a separate component of shareholders’ equity.

Financial
Instruments:

We use financial instruments such
as interest rate swap and forward exchange contracts, known as derivatives, to
minimize the economic exposure related to fluctuating interest and foreign
exchange rates. All derivatives are recognized as either assets or liabilities
in the statement of financial position and recorded at their fair value. For a
derivative designated as hedging the exposure to variable cash flows of a
forecasted transaction (referred to as a cash flow hedge), the effective
portion of the derivative’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component
of other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings when
the forecasted transaction affects earnings. For a derivative designated as
hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or
liability or a firm commitment (referred to as a fair value hedge), the gain or
loss is recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the
offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the risk being
hedged. For a derivative designated as hedging the foreign currency
exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, the gain or loss is
reported in other comprehensive income as part of the cumulative translation
adjustment. The ineffective portion of any derivative used in a hedging
transaction, and the change in fair value of a derivative instrument with no
hedging designation or purpose is recognized immediately into earnings.

Revenue
Recognition:

The majority of our revenue is
generated from our standard product manufacturing operations which convert
rubber, metal, and plastic raw materials into component parts used in closure
systems and syringe components for use with injectable drugs and drug delivery
devices. Sales of manufactured components are recorded at the time title and
risk of loss passes to the customer. Some customers receive pricing rebates
upon attaining established sales volumes. Management records rebate costs based
on its assessment of the likelihood that these volumes will be attained. We
also establish product return liabilities for customer quality claims when such
amounts are deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated.

Approximately 5% of our revenue is generated from the construction
of tools, molds or automation equipment. These projects generally take several
months to complete and utilize West’s experienced personnel and wholly owned
tool shops. We record revenue on a percentage of completion basis utilizing the
ratio of actual cost incurred over total costs estimated for each project. If
at any time during the life of


a project, it is
determined that the estimated project cost will exceed the purchase commitment
from the customer, the entire amount of the estimated loss is recorded
immediately.

Shipping
and Handling Costs:

Net sales include shipping
and handling costs collected from customers in connection with the sale. These
costs are included in cost of sales.

Property,
Plant and Equipment:

Property, plant and equipment
assets are carried at cost. Maintenance and minor repairs and renewals are
charged to expense as incurred. Costs incurred for computer software developed
or obtained for internal use are capitalized for application development
activities and immediately expensed for preliminary project activities or
post-implementation activities. Upon sale or retirement of depreciable assets,
costs and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated, and gains or losses
are recognized in other expense (income). Depreciation is computed principally
on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, or
the remaining term of the lease, if shorter.

Goodwill
and Other Intangibles:

Goodwill and intangible
assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment each fourth quarter or
more frequently if an event occurs that indicates that there could be
impairment. The first step of the impairment test compares the fair value of a
reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount
of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The
second step compares the carrying amount of the goodwill to its implied fair
value. The implied fair value is determined by allocating the fair value of the
reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the
reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value
of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting
unit. The excess of the fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts
assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill.
If the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an
impairment loss is recorded. Other intangible assets, including patents and
licensed technology, are recorded at cost and are amortized on a straight-line
method over their useful lives. Certain tradenames have been determined to have
indefinite lives and therefore are not subject to amortization.

Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets:

Long-lived assets,
including property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets subject to
amortization, are reviewed for impairment whenever circumstances indicate that
the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. An asset is
considered impaired if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the sum of the
future expected undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset. Once an
asset is considered impaired, an impairment loss is recorded for the difference
between the asset’s carrying value and its fair value. This loss is included in
operating profit. For assets to be held and used in the business, management
determines fair value by estimating the future cash flows to be derived from
the asset and discounts these flows to a net present value using an appropriate
discount rate. For assets held for sale or for investment purposes, management
determines fair value by estimating the anticipated proceeds to be received
upon sale of the asset, less costs to sell.

Research
and Development:

Research, development and
engineering expenditures are for the creation and application of new or
improved products and processes. Expenditures include primarily salaries and
outside services for those directly involved in research and development
activities and are expensed as incurred.

Research
and development costs by segment were as follows:




($ in millions)

Pharmaceutical
  Systems

$

8.8

$

6.3

$

5.2

Tech Group

2.3

1.6

1.6

$

11.1

$

7.9

$

6.8


Environmental
Remediation and Compliance Costs:

Environmental
remediation costs are accrued when such costs are probable and reasonable
estimates are determinable. Cost estimates are not discounted and include
investigation, cleanup and monitoring activities; such estimates are adjusted,
if necessary, based on additional findings. In general, environmental
compliance costs are expensed as incurred.

Litigation:

We
are from time to time party to lawsuits arising from our operations. We record
liabilities when a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. These
estimates are based on an analysis made by internal and external legal counsel
considering information known at the time.

Income
Taxes:

Deferred income taxes are recognized by
applying enacted statutory tax rates, applicable to future years, to temporary
differences between the tax basis and financial statement carrying values of
our assets and liabilities. Valuation allowances are established when it is
more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be
realized. U.S. income taxes and withholding taxes are accrued on the portion of
earnings of international subsidiaries and affiliates intended to be remitted
to the parent company.

Stock-Based
Compensation:

On January 1, 2005, we
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), “Share
Based Payment—Revised 2004” (“SFAS 123(R)”), using the modified prospective
transition method. Under this method, stock-based employee compensation cost is
recognized using the fair-value based method for all new awards granted after January 1,
2005. Additionally, compensation costs for unvested stock options and awards
that were outstanding at January 1, 2005, are being recognized on a
straight-line basis over the requisite service period based on the grant-date
fair value of those options and awards as previously calculated under the
pro-forma disclosures under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”).

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we accounted for
stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed in
Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees,” and related interpretations.

If the
fair-value based method prescribed in SFAS 123 had been applied to stock option
grants and shares issued under the employee stock purchase plan in 2004, our
net income and basic and diluted net income per share would have been reduced
as summarized below:


($ in millions, except

per share data)

Net income, as
  reported:

$

20.2

Add: Stock-based
  compensation expense included in net income, net of tax

5.0

Deduct: Total
  stock-based compensation expense determined under the fair value method for
  all awards, net of tax

(6.2

)

Pro forma net income

$

19.0

Net income per share:

Basic, as reported

$

.67

Basic, pro forma

$

.63

Diluted, as reported

$

.65

Diluted, pro
  forma

$

.62

Net Income Per Share:

Basic
net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average
number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Net income per
share assuming dilution considers the potential issuance of common shares under
our stock option and


award plans, based
on the treasury stock method. The treasury stock method assumes the use of
exercise proceeds to repurchase common stock at the average fair market value
in the period.

Note 2:   Acquisitions

On May 20, 2005, we completed our acquisition of
substantially all of the assets of the Tech Group, Inc. (“TGI”), including
the outstanding stock of, or other equity interests in, TGI’s wholly owned
subsidiaries in the United States, Puerto Rico, Ireland and Mexico. TGI offers
custom contract-manufacturing solutions utilizing plastic injection molding
processes targeted to healthcare and consumer industries. The total purchase
price was $140.5 million.

The allocation of the purchase price to assets
acquired and liabilities assumed is based on estimates of fair value determined
by management. The fair value of customer contracts and customer relationships
was estimated using a variation of the income approach; a method estimating the
fair value of an asset based on the cash flows that an asset can be expected to
generate over its useful life. The remaining useful life of acquired assets was
determined by reference to the period over which the asset is expected to
contribute to future cash flows. Trademarks acquired in the TGI acquisition
were assigned an indefinite useful life as management intends to continue to
utilize them for the foreseeable future and there are no known legal,
regulatory, contractual or economic factors which limit their useful life.

The
TGI purchase price was allocated as follows:

Asset (Liability)

($ in millions)

Inventories

$

7.0

Accounts
  receivable

20.8

Other current
  assets

8.0

Property, plant
  and equipment

49.0

Goodwill

25.4

Intangible assets

53.2

Other noncurrent
  assets

0.3

Current
  liabilities

(21.3

)

Noncurrent
  liabilities and deferred taxes

(1.9

)

Total consideration

$

140.5

During 2006, restricted cash paid as part of the
original 2005 TGI purchase price of $140.5 million was released and paid to the
sellers upon the achievement of certain earnings targets called for in the
acquisition agreement. The release of the restricted cash balance of $7.1
million resulted in additional goodwill.

The
acquired intangible assets and their respective remaining useful lives are as
follows:

Estimate of

Fair Value

Remaining

Useful Life

($ in millions)

Trademarks

$

10.0

Indefinite

Customer
  contracts

22.7

20 Years

Customer
  relationships

20.5

25 Years

$

53.2

The amortization expense for 2006 for these intangible
assets was $2.0 million. The estimated annual amortization expense of these
intangible assets for each of the next five years is approximately $2.0 million
per year.


On August 2, 2005, we acquired 90% of the equity
interests in Medimop Medical Projects, Ltd. and its affiliated company Medimop
USA LLC (“Medimop”). Medimop, a privately owned company headquartered in Ra’anana,
Israel, is a leading developer of disposable medical devices for the mixing,
transfer, reconstitution and administration of injectable drugs. We also
received an option to purchase, at fair value, the remaining 10% ownership of
the two companies, which generally becomes exercisable four years after the
closing date.

We paid total consideration of $40.0 million for the
initial investment in Medimop, of which approximately $36.4 million was paid in
cash and the balance by delivering 128,547 shares of our common stock issued at
a fair value of $3.6 million. As of December 31, 2006, additional
contingent cash consideration of up to $1.2 million may be payable depending on
the achievement of operating goals over the period ending on December 31,
2009.

The
Medimop purchase price was allocated as follows:

Asset (Liability)

($ in millions)

Inventories

$

0.9

Accounts
  receivable

2.2

Other current
  assets

3.1

Property, plant
  and equipment

1.8

Goodwill

29.8

Intangible assets

17.4

Current
  liabilities

(5.5

)

Minority interest

(4.1

)

Noncurrent
  liabilities and deferred taxes

(5.6

)

Total consideration

$

40.0

The
acquired intangible assets and their respective remaining useful lives are as
follows:

Estimate of

Fair Value

Remaining

Useful Life

($ in millions)

Trademarks

$

1.2

12 Years

Patents

3.7

12 Years

Covenant not to
  compete

3.8

7 Years

Customer
  relationships

8.7

10 Years

$

17.4

The amortization expense for 2006 for these intangible
assets was $2.0 million. The estimated annual amortization expense of these intangible
assets for the next five years is approximately $1.8 million per year.


The
following unaudited pro forma summary combines our results with the results of
operations of Medimop and TGI as if the acquisitions had occurred at the
beginning of 2005 and 2004. These pro forma results have been prepared for
comparative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of what would
have occurred had the acquisitions been made at the beginning of each period,
or of results which may occur in the future.

Twelve Months Ended

12/31/05

12/31/04

($ in millions, except

per share data)

Net sales

$

770.4

$

673.8

Income from
  continuing operations

$

47.7

$

29.6

Income from
  continuing operations per diluted share

$

1.47

$

0.96

Net income

$

48.1

$

15.5

Net income per diluted
  share

$

1.48

$

0.50

On February 11, 2005,
we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of Monarch Analytical Laboratories, Inc.
(“Monarch”). Monarch is a contract laboratory business that performs testing of
pharmaceutical packaging components specializing in plastic and glass materials.
On the closing date, we paid $2.0 million in cash and 70,586 shares of our
common stock valued at $1.8 million for Monarch. Additionally, we assumed, and
subsequently paid, debt in the amount of $1.9 million.

The
Monarch purchase price was allocated as follows:

Asset (Liability)

($ in millions)

Current assets

$

0.8

Property, plant
  and equipment

2.0

Goodwill

3.4

Current
  liabilities and deferred taxes

(0.5

)

Total consideration

$

5.7

Pro forma results assuming the acquisition of Monarch
as of January 1, 2004 would not be materially different from reported
sales or net income.

Our financial statements
include the results of the acquired businesses for periods after the
acquisition date. Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes on these
acquisitions.

Note 3:   Discontinued
Operations

Our 2006 income from discontinued operations was $5.6
million, or $0.17 per diluted share. As a result of a favorable outcome to our
claim for tax benefits relating to the 2001 sale of our former contract
manufacturing and packaging business, we received a tax refund resulting in the
recognition of a $4.0 million tax benefit. The settlement of this claim also
resulted in pre-tax interest income of $0.6 million ($0.4 million after taxes).
We also recognized a $1.2 million favorable adjustment to tax accruals
associated with our former Drug Delivery Systems segment primarily as a result
of the closure of the 2002 U.S. federal tax audit year.

2005 income from discontinued operations was $0.4
million, or $0.01 per diluted share. The majority of the income was generated
from the August 2005 sale of the clinical services unit for $6.2 million
resulting in a pre-tax gain of $0.7 million ($0.5 million net of tax).
Operating losses and other costs associated with the sale of our former drug
delivery business completed in the first quarter of 2005 totaled $1.9 million
($1.1 million, net of tax), more than offsetting the operating income of $1.6
million ($1.0 million, net of tax) generated by the clinical services unit
prior to its divestiture.


In December 2004, we entered into an agreement to
sell our drug delivery business. The sales price consisted of $7.1 million
receivable due in cash at the 2005 closing date and a 14% ownership interest in
the new company valued at $1.0 million. As a result of the transaction, we
recorded a pre-tax loss of $4.7 million ($5.2 million after-tax, or $0.17 per
diluted share). The $0.5 million net tax expense was primarily the result of
the reversal of current and prior year tax benefits that were no longer
available as a result of the transaction. In December 2004 we also
announced our intention to exit the clinical services business. The operating
results of the drug delivery business and clinical service unit are classified
within discontinued operations for all periods presented. The pre-tax loss from
the discontinued drug delivery and clinical services operations was $13.5 million
for 2004.

Net
sales and income from discontinued operations were as follows:




($ in millions)

Net sales

$

—

$

7.9

$

10.8

Pretax income
  (loss) from discontinued operations

0.6

(0.3

)

(13.5

)

Pretax income
  (loss) on disposal of business segment

—

0.7

(4.7

)

Income tax
  benefit

5.0

—

4.1

Net gain/(loss) from
  discontinued operations

$

5.6

$

0.4

$

(14.1

)

Net
cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations was as follows:




($ in millions)

Operating
  activities

$

4.4

$

(5.8

)

$

(11.9

)

Proceeds from
  disposition

—

13.3

—

Property, plant
  and equipment acquired

—

—

(0.2

)

Net cash provided by
  (used in) discontinued operations

$

4.4

$

7.5

$

(12.1

)

Note 4:   Restructuring
Charge (Benefit)

The
following table details activity related to our restructuring obligations:

Severance

and benefits

Other

Costs

Total

($ in millions)

Balance,
  December 31, 2003

$

1.4

$

0.5

$

1.9

2004 expense

0.4

0.6

1.0

Non-cash
  adjustments

—

1.8

1.8

Cash payments

(1.3

)

—

(1.3

)

Balance,
  December 31, 2004

0.5

2.9

3.4

2005 income

—

(1.3

)

(1.3

)

Non-cash
  adjustments

—

(0.3

)

(0.3

)

Cash payments

(0.3

)

(1.3

)

(1.6

)

Balance, December 31,

0.2

—

0.2

Cash payments

(0.2

)

—

(0.2

)

Balance,
  December 31, 2006

$

—

$

—

$

—

During 2004, we recorded a $1.0 million net charge
principally consisting of the excess of future lease costs at the U.K. plant
over expected sub-lease rental income, as well as additional severance expense
and repair costs necessary to return the leased facility to its original
condition.


During 2005, all repair and lease cancellation costs
for the leased facility in the U.K. were paid out and the remaining accrual was
reduced to zero upon completion of the required arrangements. Other cash
payments during the year of $0.3 million were for severance and benefit
agreements.

During 2006, the remaining
restructuring obligations were paid.

Note 5:   Other Expense




($ in millions)

Foreign exchange
  losses (gains)

$

0.7

$

0.5

$

(0.1

)

Asset impairment
  charges

2.5

0.5

—

Loss on sales of
  equipment

1.5

0.1

1.5

Other

0.2

0.3

0.1

$

4.9

$

1.4

$

1.5

During 2006 our Pharmaceutical Systems segment
recorded a $2.5 million charge connected with the impairment of assets involved
in the production and licensing of one of our reconstitution products following
a substantial reduction in projected orders, causing a decline in our fair
value estimates for this product line. The impairment charge includes a $1.6
million reduction to the value of the dedicated production assets for this
product, a $0.5 million minimum royalty payment called for under our licensing
agreement and a $0.4 million decrease in the value of our licensing rights.

2005 results include a
$0.5 million impairment of our investment in a company that had been developing
genomics analysis technology following that company’s unsuccessful efforts in
finding a commercial sponsor.

Note 6:

Income
Taxes

Income
before income taxes from continuing operations was derived as follows:




($ in millions)

U.S. operations

$

17.8

$

7.1

$

6.0

International
  operations

66.7

54.3

36.4

$

84.5

$

61.4

$

42.4

The
related provision for income taxes from continuing operations consists of:




($ in millions)

Current
  provision:

Federal

$

0.4

$

(2.0

)

$

1.6

State

(0.5

)

0.5

—

International

19.8

16.5

12.4

19.7

15.0

14.0

Deferred
  provision:

Federal

3.1

2.3

(1.9

)

International

1.8

0.4

(0.6

)

4.9

2.7

(2.5

)

Provision for income
  taxes, continuing operations

$

24.6

$

17.7

$

11.5


A
reconciliation of the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate to our effective
consolidated tax rate on income before income taxes from continuing operations
follows:




U.S. statutory
  corporate tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Tax on
  international operations less than United States tax rate

(2.6

)

(3.2

)

1.6

Non-benefited
  losses

1.5

4.1

2.8

Reversal of prior
  valuation allowance

(1.9

)

(2.2

)

(2.6

)

Tax on
  repatriated earnings under AJCA, net of credits

—

2.5

—

Reversal of
  reserves related to closed years

(1.4

)

(2.9

)

(4.4

)

U.S. tax on international
  earnings, net of foreign tax credits

(1.3

)

(4.5

)

(2.4

)

State income
  taxes, net of federal tax benefit

(3.4

)

(1.6

)

(2.5

)

Other

3.2

1.8

(0.3

)

Effective tax rate,
  continuing operations

29.1

%

29.0

%

27.2

%

The
net current and noncurrent components of deferred income taxes recognized in
the balance sheet at December 31 are as follows:



($ in millions)

Current assets

$

5.3

$

2.4

Noncurrent assets

55.1

32.6

Noncurrent
  valuation allowance

(25.3

)

(24.3

)

Current
  liabilities

(2.7

)

(8.3

)

Noncurrent
  liabilities

(43.5

)

(31.9

)

$

(11.1

)

$

(29.5

)

The
following is a summary of the significant components of our deferred tax assets
and liabilities as of December 31:



($ in millions)

Deferred tax
  assets

Net operating loss carryforwards

$

21.4

$

28.1

Tax credit carryforwards

10.5

9.3

Restructuring and severance charges

—

0.2

Capital loss carryforwards

1.4

1.3

Pension and deferred compensation

14.3

(2.5

)

Other

10.7

9.2

Valuation allowance

(25.3

)

(24.3

)

Total deferred
  tax assets

33.0

21.3

Deferred tax
  liabilities:

Accelerated depreciation

40.0

40.0

Kinston gain

—

6.5

Other

4.1

4.3

Total deferred
  tax liabilities

44.1

50.8

Net deferred tax
  liability

$

(11.1

)

$

(29.5

)

At December 31, 2006, we had U.S. federal net
operating loss carryforwards of $2.2 million and state operating loss
carryforwards of $205.0 million, which created deferred tax assets of $0.7
million and


$12.2 million,
respectively; and foreign operating loss carryforwards of $30.3 million, which
created a deferred tax asset of $8.5 million. Management estimates that the
state and foreign operating loss carryforwards, $205.0 million and $30.3
million, respectively, are unlikely to be utilized and the associated deferred
tax assets of $12.2 million and $8.5 million, respectively, have been fully
reserved. Federal net operating loss carryforwards expire after 2024. State
loss carryforwards expire as follows: $7.0 million in 2007 and $198.0 million
after 2008. Foreign loss carryforwards will expire as follows: $0.1 million in
2008 and $8.4 million with no expiration date.

As of December 31, 2006, we had available foreign
tax credit carryforwards of $7.1 million expiring as follows: $0.3 million in
2009, $0.4 million in 2010, $0.3 million in 2011, $1.7 million in 2012, $0.1
million in 2013, $0.4 million in 2014 and $3.9 million after 2014. Based upon
current projections, management estimates that $3.2 million will not be
utilized and therefore a valuation allowance was established for that amount.
We have research and development credit carryforwards of $3.4 million, of which
$0.5 million expires in 2020, $0.5 million expires in 2021 and $2.4 million
expires after 2021.

As of December 31, 2006, we had available capital
loss carry-forwards of $1.4 million. We currently have no capital gains to
offset capital losses; therefore, the entire amount of $1.4 million has been
fully reserved.

At December 31, 2006, we had undistributed
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, amounting to $224.0 million on which deferred
income taxes have not been provided because such earnings are intended to be
reinvested indefinitely outside of the U.S.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “AJCA”)
provided for a special one-time elective dividends-received deduction on the
repatriation of certain foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer equal to 85% of the
eligible distribution. During 2005, we repatriated approximately $166 million,
of which $141 million qualified for the special one-time elective
dividends-received deduction and $25 million constituted earnings that do not
qualify under the Act. We recorded tax expense of $1.5 million related to the
repatriation. Prior to the AJCA, we did not provide deferred taxes on
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as we intended to utilize these
earnings through expansion of our business operations outside the United States
for an indefinite period of time.

In 2006 we recorded a $0.4 million tax benefit
associated with the favorable resolution of a claim for a tax refund associated
with the disposition of our former plastic molding facility in Puerto Rico and
related interest income of $0.3 million ($0.2 million, net of tax).

The Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) has completed and closed its audits of our U.S. tax returns
through 2002.

Note 7:   Segment
Information

Our operations are comprised of two reportable
segments: Pharmaceutical Systems and Tech Group. The Pharmaceutical Systems
segment focuses on the design, manufacture and distribution of elastomer and
metal components used in parenteral drug delivery for customers in the
pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industries. The Pharmaceutical Systems
segment has two operating segments: the Americas and Europe/Asia Pacific. These
segments are aggregated for reporting purposes as they have common economic
characteristics, produce and sell a similar range of products in their
respective geographic regions, use a similar distribution process and have a
common customer base. The Tech Group operating segment offers custom
contract-manufacturing solutions utilizing plastic injection molding processes
targeted to healthcare and consumer industries.

Our executive management evaluates the performance of
these operating segments based on operating profit and cash flow generation. General
corporate expenses, restructuring charges and other items are not reflected in
operating profit reviewed by segment management. Corporate segment assets


include pension assets,
investments in affiliated companies and net assets of discontinued operations. The
accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the
summary of significant accounting policies.

The
following table provides information on sales by significant product group:




($ in millions)

Pharmaceutical
  packaging

$

511.9

$

417.2

$

378.1

Disposable
  medical components

109.2

97.4

88.1

Personal care
  products

4.9

5.1

5.1

Laboratory and
  other services

18.1

18.6

9.7

Pharmaceutical Systems

644.1

538.3

481.0

Healthcare
  devices

155.6

76.5

24.7

Consumer products

84.4

63.2

35.6

Tooling/mold
  construction

39.2

30.4

7.6

Tech Group

279.2

170.1

67.9

Intersegment sales

(10.0

)

(8.7

)

(7.3

)

Net sales

$

913.3

$

699.7

$

541.6

We had sales to one customer of approximately $86.9
million, $74.7 million and $61.9 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The
following table presents sales and long-lived assets by the country in which
the legal subsidiary is domiciled and assets are located.

Sales

Property, Plant and Equipment







($ in millions)

United States

$

464.5

$

344.5

$

264.9

$

185.3

$

171.3

$

128.2

Germany

97.7

79.5

71.8

78.5

61.7

70.2

France

73.7

63.5

52.6

38.2

31.7

34.3

Other European
  countries

174.4

145.1

108.0

51.5

38.2

32.7

Other

103.0

67.1

44.3

31.2

25.1

18.4

$

913.3

$

699.7

$

541.6

$

384.7

$

328.0

$

283.8


The
following table provides summarized financial information for our segments:

Pharmaceutical

Systems

Tech Group

Corporate and

Eliminations

Consolidated

($ in millions)


Net sales

$

644.1

$

279.2

$

(10.0

)

$

913.3

Income before
  income taxes and minority interests

129.7

18.2

(63.4

)

84.5

Segment assets

576.7

248.2

93.3

918.2

Capital
  expenditures

62.3

26.7

1.3

90.3

Depreciation and
  amortization expense

34.4

16.6

1.7

52.7


Net sales

$

538.3

$

170.1

$

(8.7

)

$

699.7

Income before income
  taxes and minority interests

95.0

9.1

(42.7

)

61.4

Segment assets

513.9

215.3

104.3

833.5

Capital
  expenditures

38.3

13.2

2.6

54.1

Depreciation and
  amortization expense

30.9

14.7

1.8

47.4


Net sales

$

481.0

$

67.9

$

(7.3

)

$

541.6

Income before
  income taxes and minority interests

79.6

3.9

(41.1

)

42.4

Segment assets

504.2

52.5

101.1

657.8

Capital
  expenditures

51.5

3.1

2.8

57.4

Depreciation and
  amortization expense

27.3

4.2

1.7

33.2

Note 8:   Net
Income Per Share

The
following table reconciles shares used in the calculation of basic net income
per share to the shares used in the calculation of net income per share
assuming dilution. There is no adjustment to our net income in the calculation
of net income per share assuming dilution.




($ and shares in millions)

Income from
  continuing operations

$

61.5

$

46.0

$

34.3

Discontinued
  operations, net of tax

5.6

0.4

(14.1

)

Net income

$

67.1

$

46.4

$

20.2

Average common
  shares outstanding

32.2

31.1

30.0

Assumed stock
  options exercised and awards vested

1.4

1.4

0.8

Average shares assuming
  dilution

33.6

32.5

30.8

For 2006 and 2005, stock
options of 0.3 million and 0.4 million, respectively, were excluded from the
computation of diluted earnings per share since the options were antidilutive. For
2004, there were no stock options excluded from the computation.

Note 9:   Comprehensive
Income

Comprehensive income consists of reported net income
and other comprehensive income, which reflects revenue, expenses and gains and
losses that generally accepted accounting principles exclude from net income.
For us, the items excluded from current net income are cumulative foreign
currency


translation adjustments,
unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities of affiliates, fair
value adjustments on derivative financial instruments and pension liability
adjustments.

The
components of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, at December 31,
2006 and 2005 are as follows:



($ in millions)

Foreign currency
  translation

$

33.6

$

13.1

Unrealized gains
  on securities of affiliates

2.3

1.7

Unrealized gains
  on derivatives

1.1

0.7

Pension liability
  adjustments

(26.4

)

(6.6

)

$

10.6

$

8.9

Unrealized gains on
securities of affiliates are reported net of an accumulated income tax
provision of $1.7 million and $0.9 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Unrealized gains on derivatives are reported net of a tax
provision of $0.7 million and $0.5 million as of December 31, 2006 and
2005 respectively. Pension liability adjustments, which include the impact of
SFAS 158 (see Note 14,

Benefit Plans

),
are reported net of an income tax benefit of $15.4 million and $3.0 million at December 31,
2006 and 2005 respectively.

Note 10:   Inventories



($ in millions)

Finished goods

$

43.4

$

34.5

Work in process

13.4

10.3

Raw materials

40.7

26.3

$

97.5

$

71.1

Note 11:   Goodwill
and Intangibles

We perform an annual impairment test during the fourth
quarter of each year. No goodwill impairment charges were recorded for the
periods ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004.

Goodwill
by reportable segment was as follows:

Pharmaceutical

Systems

Tech Group

Total

($ in millions)

Balance,
  December 31, 2004

$

34.8

$

7.6

$

42.4

Acquisitions

33.2

18.3

51.5

Foreign currency
  translation

(4.4

)

—

(4.4

)

Balance,
  December 31, 2005

63.6

25.9

89.5

Additions

0.1

7.5

7.6

Foreign currency
  translation

5.7

—

5.7

Balance,
  December 31, 2006

$

69.4

$

33.4

$

102.8

During 2006, restricted cash paid as part of the
original 2005 TGI purchase price of $140.5 million was released and paid to the
sellers upon the achievement of certain earnings targets called for in the
acquisition agreement. The release of the restricted cash balance of $7.1
million and related interest income of $0.4 million resulted in additional
goodwill of $7.5 million in 2006.


Intangible
assets and accumulated amortization as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 were
as follows:



Cost

Accumulated

Amortization

Cost

Accumulated

Amortization

($ in millions)

Patents

$

6.1

$

(2.0

)

$

6.0

$

(1.3

)

Trademarks

11.2

(0.1

)

11.2

—

Customer relationships

29.8

(2.5

)

29.2

(0.9

)

Customer contracts

22.7

(1.9

)

22.6

(0.7

)

Non-compete agreements

3.8

(0.8

)

3.8

(0.2

)

$

73.6

$

(7.3

)

$

72.8

$

(3.1

)

The cost basis of intangible assets includes the
effects of foreign currency translation adjustments, which were $0.8 million
for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2006. Amortization expense
for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $4.2 million,
$2.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Estimated amortization for each of
the next five years is approximately $3.9 million. Trademarks with a carrying
amount of $10.0 million were determined to have indefinite lives and therefore
do not require amortization.

Under certain long-term
supply contracts, we incur design and development costs for molds, dies, and
other tools that are owned by our customers but will be used by us in
production. These arrangements include a contractual guarantee for
reimbursement of our costs as parts are produced under the supply agreement,
including guaranteed minimum order quantities. Other noncurrent assets include
tooling and mold costs under these long-term supply arrangements totaling $0.9
million and $0.3 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
These costs are amortized into cost of goods sold on a units-of-production
basis, in the same period that the related revenue under the supply contract is
received. We recorded amortization expense on these agreements of $0.4 million,
$4.8 million and $2.7 million for the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Note 12:   Property,
Plant and Equipment

A
summary of gross property, plant and equipment at December 31 is presented
in the following table:

Expected useful

lives (years)



($ in millions)

Land

$

8.1

$

6.5

Buildings and
  improvements

5-50

180.6

168.5

Machinery and
  equipment

2-15

442.9

377.1

Molds and dies

2-7

69.2

63.7

Construction in
  progress

56.6

31.4

$

757.4

$

647.2

Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004 was $48.1 million, $40.5 million and $30.3 million,
respectively.

Capitalized leases included in ‘buildings and
improvements’ were $2.3 million and $2.1 million at December 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively. Capitalized leases included in ‘machinery and equipment’
were $1.2 million and $0.1 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Accumulated depreciation on all property, plant and equipment
accounted for as capitalized leases was $0.4 million and $0.2 million at December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively.


The Company capitalizes
interest on borrowings during the active construction period of major capital
projects. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of the underlying assets
and is amortized over the useful lives of the assets. Capitalized interest for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $0.7 million, $0.6
million and $1.3 million, respectively.

Note 13:

Affiliated
Companies

At December 31,
2006, the following affiliated companies were accounted for under the equity
method:

Location

Ownership

interest

West
  Pharmaceutical Services Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico


%

Aluplast S.A. de
  C.V.

Mexico


%

Pharma Tap S.A.
  de C.V.

Mexico


%

Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.

Japan


%

We
record equity in net income of these affiliated companies for the 12-month
period ended October 31. A summary of the financial information for these
companies is presented below:



Balance Sheet

($ in millions)

Current assets

$

116.6

$

96.0

Noncurrent assets

182.6

177.4

Total assets

$

299.2

$

273.4

Current
  liabilities

$

78.8

$

73.3

Noncurrent
  liabilities

112.8

99.3

Owners’ equity

107.6

100.8

Total liabilities
  and owners’ equity

$

299.2

$

273.4

Income Statement




($ in millions)

Net sales

$

121.3

$

119.6

$

117.9

Gross profit

24.7

24.6

30.2

Net income

6.8

8.2

12.1

Unremitted income of affiliated companies included in
consolidated retained earnings amounted to $21.6 million, $19.8 million and
$17.5 million at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Dividends
received from affiliated companies were $0.1 million annually for each of the
years 2006, 2005 and 2004.

Our equity in unrealized gains of Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.’s
investment in securities available-for-sale, included in accumulated other
comprehensive income, a separate component of shareholders’ equity, was $2.3
million, $1.7 million and $0.6 million at December 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. The unrealized gains were net of income tax in the amount
of $1.7 million, $1.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively.

Our purchases and royalty payments made to affiliates
totaled $24.1 million and $20.6 million, respectively, in 2006 and 2005, of
which $1.9 million and $1.3 million was due and payable as of December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. These transactions primarily relate to a
distributorship agreement allowing us to purchase and re-sell Daikyo products.
Sales to affiliates were $0.8 million and $0.5 million, respectively, in 2006
and 2005, of which $0.2 million was receivable as of December 31, 2006 and
2005.


In
addition to affiliates accounted for under the equity method, we also have
affiliates that are accounted for as cost investments. These cost investments
are carried at the lower of cost or market. At December 31, 2006 and 2005,
the aggregate carrying amount of investments in and advances to affiliated companies
was as follows:



($ in millions)

Equity companies

$

28.4

$

26.6

Cost companies

1.3

1.1

$

29.7

$

27.7

Note 14:

Benefit
Plans

Certain of our U.S. and international subsidiaries
sponsor defined benefit pension plans. In addition, we provide minimal life
insurance benefits for certain U.S. retirees and pay a portion of healthcare
(medical and dental) costs for retired U.S. salaried employees and their
dependents. Benefits for participants are coordinated with Medicare and the
plan mandates Medicare risk (“HMO”) coverage wherever possible and caps the
total contribution for non-HMO coverage. We also sponsor a defined contribution
savings plan for certain salaried and hourly U.S. employees.

On October 17, 2006, our Board of Directors
approved an amendment to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan. Under
the amended plan, benefits earned under the plan’s current pension formulas and
accruals for both hourly and salaried participants will be frozen as of December 31,
2006. Effective January 1, 2007, new cash-balance formulas will be
implemented for covered hourly and salaried participants and new hires,
pursuant to which a percentage of a participant’s compensation will be credited
to a participant account each year. This amendment resulted in an $18.8 million
reduction in our projected benefit obligations. The impact of the plan
amendment will be recognized as a reduction to pension expense over a 12 year
period representing the estimated average remaining service period of plan
participants affected by the amendment.

Our Board also adopted certain ‘safe harbor’ features
to our 401(k) savings plan covering certain salaried and hourly U.S.
employees. Effective January 1, 2007, the Company will increase its
contributions to a 100% match on the first 3% of employee base compensation
contributions, and a 50% match on the next 2% of employee contributions. In
2006, the Company match was equal to 50% of each participant’s contribution up
to 6% of the participant’s base compensation. Our contributions were $1.4
million for 2006, 2005 and 2004.

On December 31, 2006, we adopted SFAS 158. The
new standard requires the recognition of an asset or liability for the
overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan as
measured by the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the
benefit obligation. For a pension plan, the benefit obligation is the projected
benefit obligation; for any other postretirement plan, such as a retiree health
plan, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation.


The
adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of shareholders’ equity of $19.7 million
($32.0 million pre-tax, less a $12.3 million deferred tax benefit) at December 31,
2006. The following table indicates the adoption impact of SFAS 158 on
individual balance sheet line items:

Asset (Liability)

Prior to

SFAS 158

Adjustments

After Adoption

of SFAS 158

($ in millions)

Noncurrent asset

$

41.7

$

(29.6

)

$

12.1

Noncurrent
  deferred income taxes

(55.8

)

12.3

(43.5

)

Current liability

(0.9

)

(0.7

)

(1.6

)

Noncurrent
  liability

(39.5

)

(1.7

)

(41.2

)

Accumulated other
  comprehensive income, net of tax

(30.3

)

19.7

(10.6

)

Pension and Other Retirement Benefits

The
components of net pension expense are as follows:

Pension benefits

Other retirement benefits







($ in millions)

Service cost

$

5.4

$

5.5

$

5.1

$

1.0

$

0.9

$

0.6

Interest cost

13.2

11.9

11.5

0.8

0.7

0.6

Expected return
  on assets

(14.8

)

(15.3

)

(14.8

)

—

—

—

Amortization of
  transition asset

0.1

0.1

0.1

—

—

—

Amortization of
  prior service costs

0.7

0.7

0.8

0.1

0.1

0.1

Recognized
  actuarial losses (gains)

3.9

3.0

3.2

—

—

(0.1

)

Pension expense

$

8.5

$

5.9

$

5.9

$

1.9

$

1.7

$

1.2

U.S. pension plan
  expense

$

6.5

$

3.4

$

3.8

$

1.9

$

1.7

$

1.2

International
  pension plan expense

2.0

2.5

2.1

—

—

—

Pension expense

$

8.5

$

5.9

$

5.9

$

1.9

$

1.7

$

1.2

The
following tables present the changes in the benefit obligation and the fair
value of plan assets, as well as, the funded status of the plans:

Pension benefits

Other retirement benefits





($ in millions)

Change
  in benefit obligation:

Benefit
  obligation, January 1

$

(237.5

)

$

(217.7

)

$

(13.4

)

$

(10.5

)

Service cost

(5.4

)

(5.5

)

(1.0

)

(0.9

)

Interest cost

(13.2

)

(11.9

)

(0.8

)

(0.7

)

Participants’
  contributions

—

(0.3

)

(0.3

)

(0.4

)

Actuarial gain
  (loss)

6.8

(14.0

)

0.1

(1.7

)

Amendments/transfers
  in

18.0

(0.6

)

—

—

Benefits/expenses
  paid

9.0

8.2

0.8

0.8

Special charges

—

0.7

—

—

Foreign currency
  translation

(4.3

)

3.6

—

—

Benefit obligation,
  December 31

$

(226.6

)

$

(237.5

)

$

(14.6

)

$

(13.4

)


Pension benefits

Other retirement benefits





($ in millions)

Change
  in plan assets:

Fair value of
  assets, January 1

$

192.5

$

184.3

$

—

$

—

Actual return on
  assets

23.7

14.2

—

—

Employer
  contribution

1.0

3.5

0.5

0.4

Participants’
  contribution

—

0.3

0.3

0.4

Benefits/expenses
  paid

(9.0

)

(8.2

)

(0.8

)

(0.8

)

Foreign currency
  translation

2.3

(1.6

)

—

—

Fair value of
  plan assets, December  31

$

210.5

$

192.5

$

—

$

—

Funded status

$

(16.1

)

$

(45.0

)

$

(14.6

)

$

(13.4

)

Unrecognized net
  actuarial loss

—

72.3

—

0.5

Unrecognized
  transition asset

—

1.1

—

—

Unrecognized
  prior service cost

—

4.6

—

0.7

Amounts recognized in
  balance sheet, December 31

$

(16.1

)

$

33.0

$

(14.6

)

$

(12.2

)

Amounts
recognized in the balance sheet at December 31 are as follows:

Asset (liability)

Pension benefits

Other retirement benefits





($ in millions)

Pension asset

$

12.1

$

47.1

$

—

$

—

Pension and other
  postretirement benefits—

current

(0.8

)

(0.5

)

(0.8

)

(0.5

)

Pension and other
  postretirement benefits—noncurrent

(27.4

)

(23.2

)

(13.8

)

(11.7

)

$

(16.1

)

$

23.4

$

(14.6

)

$

(12.2

)

The
amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income, pre-tax, at December 31
consist of:

Pension benefits

Other retirement benefits





($ in millions)

Net actuarial
  loss

$

53.3

$

8.5

$

0.4

$

—

Transition asset

1.2

1.1

—

—

Prior service
  (credit) cost

(13.7

)

—

0.6

—

Accumulated other
  comprehensive income

$

40.8

$

9.6

$

1.0

$

—

International pension plan assets, at fair value,
included in the preceding tables were $20.1 million and $16.4 million at December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively.

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined
benefit pension plans was $224.9 million and $216.0 million at December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively, including $37.9 million and $31.7 million for
international pension plans, respectively. The aggregate accumulated benefit
obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for pension plans with accumulated
benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $46.6 million and $20.1
million, respectively, as of December 31, 2006, and $40.0 million and
$16.4 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2005.


The actuarial net loss, transition asset and prior
service credit for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized
from accumulated other comprehensive income into net pension expense over the
next fiscal year is $2.4 million, $0.1 million and $(1.2) million,
respectively. The estimated prior service cost for the other retirement benefit
plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into
net pension expense over the next fiscal year is $0.1 million.

Benefit
payments expected to be paid under our defined benefit pension plans in the
next ten years are as follows:

Domestic

Plans

International

Plans

Total

($ in millions)


$

8.9

$

1.0

$

9.9


9.1

1.0

10.1


9.7

1.2

10.9


10.4

1.3

11.7


11.0

1.6

12.6

2012-2016

67.9

7.5

75.4

$

117.0

$

13.6

$

130.6

We expect to contribute approximately $0.8 million to
pension plans, of which $0.3 million is for international plans. We also expect
to contribute $0.8 million to other retirement plans in 2006. We periodically
consider additional, voluntary contributions depending on the investment
returns generated by pension plan assets, changes in benefit obligation
projections and other factors.

Weighted
average assumptions used to determine net periodic pension cost for the years
ended December 31 are as follows:

Pension benefits

Other retirement benefits







Discount rate

5.53

%

5.67

%

5.96

%

5.65

%

5.75

%

6.00

%

Rate of compensation
  increase

4.68

%

4.62

%

4.69

%

—

—

—

Long-term rate of return
  of assets

7.85

%

8.51

%

8.77

%

—

—

—

Weighted
average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations at December 31
are as follows:

Pension benefits

Other retirement benefits





Discount rate

5.73

%

5.53

%

5.70

%

5.65

%

Rate of compensation
  increase

4.68

%

4.62

%

—

—

The discount rate used to determine the benefit
obligations for U.S. plans was 5.90% and 5.65% for the years ended December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. The weighted average discount rate used to
determine the benefit obligations for all international plans was 4.93% and
4.75% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The
rate of compensation increase for U.S. plans was 5.00% for all years presented
while the weighted average rate for all international plans was 2.88% and 3.08%
for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Other
retirement benefits were only available to U.S. employees.

The long-term rate of return for U.S. plans, which
accounts for 90% of global plan assets, was 8.00%, 8.75% and 9.00% for the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.


The assumed healthcare cost trend used is 9.50% for
all participants in 2006, decreasing to 5.50% by 2011. Increasing or decreasing
the assumed healthcare cost trend rate by one percentage point would result in
a $0.9 million increase or decrease, respectively, in the postretirement
obligation. The related change in the aggregate service and interest cost
components of the 2006 plan expense would be a $0.2 million increase or
decrease, respectively.

The
weighted average asset allocations by asset category, for our pension plans, as
of December 31 are as follows:



Equity securities


%


%

Debt securities



Cash




%


%

Our U.S. pension plan is managed as a balanced
portfolio comprised of two components: equity and fixed income debt securities.
Equity investments are used to maximize the long-term real growth of fund
assets, while fixed income investments are used to generate current income,
provide for a more stable periodic return, and to provide some protection against
a prolonged decline in the market value of fund equity investments. Temporary
funds may be held as cash. We maintain a long-term strategic asset allocation
policy which provides guidelines for ensuring that the fund’s investments are
managed with the short-term and long-term financial goals of the fund but
provide the flexibility to allow for changes in capital markets.

The
following are our target asset allocations and acceptable allocation ranges:

Target

allocation

Allocation

Range

Equity securities

65%

60%-70%

Debt securities

35%

30%-40%

Other

0%

0%-5%

t

Diversification across and within asset classes is the
primary means by which we mitigate risk. We maintain guidelines for all asset
and sub-asset categories in order to avoid excessive investment concentrations.
Fund assets are monitored on a regular basis. If at any time the fund asset
allocation is not within the acceptable allocation range, funds will be
reallocated. We also review the fund on a regular basis to ensure that the
investment returns received are consistent with the short-term and long-term
goals of the fund and with comparable market returns.

We are prohibited from investing pension fund assets
in the following: our own stock, securities on margin, derivative securities,
and from pledging of securities.

We provide certain
post-employment benefits for terminated and disabled employees, including
severance pay, disability-related benefits and healthcare benefits. These costs
are accrued over the employee’s active service period or, under certain
circumstances, at the date of the event triggering the benefit.

Note 15:   Debt

At December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had short-term
obligations under capital leases of $0.5 million and $0.3 million,
respectively. These obligations were primarily denominated in Euros and carried
a weighted average interest rate of 5.3%.


The
following table summarizes our long-term debt obligations at December 31:



($ in millions)

Senior notes,
  originally due 2009 (6.8%)

$

—

$

100.0

Capital leases,
  due 2007 (5.0%)

—

0.2

Capital leases,
  due 2008 (5.0%)

0.1

—

Capital leases,
  due 2010 (5.5%)

0.7

—

Revolving credit
  facility, due 2011 (3.4%)

52.9

105.5

Series A
  floating rate notes, due 2012 (6.2%)

50.0

50.0

Series B
  floating rate notes, due 2015 (6.3%)

25.0

25.0

Euro note A, due
  2013 (4.2%)

26.8

—

Euro note B, due
  2016 (4.4%)

80.3

—

$

235.8

$

280.7

On February 27, 2006, we prepaid $100.0 million
of our 6.81% senior notes with an original maturity date of April 8, 2009.
As required by the note purchase agreement, we incurred costs of approximately
$5.9 million in connection with the prepayment.

In connection with the financing of equipment
purchases, as of December 31, 2006, we have capital lease obligations of
$0.1 million due in 2008 and $0.7 million due in 2010. These lease obligations
are primarily denominated in Euros.

As of December 31, 2006, we have $52.9 million of
borrowings under our multi-currency revolving credit agreement due in 2011.
These borrowings were denominated in the following currencies: $22.7 million in
Japanese yen, $15.0 million in U.S. dollars, $8.6 million in Danish krones, and
$6.6 million in Euros. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility are at
variable rates determined by reference to the applicable London Interbank
Offering Rates (“LIBOR”) plus a margin ranging from 0.5 percentage points to
1.375 percentage points determined by our leverage ratio. Under the leverage
ratio, our total indebtedness cannot exceed three-and one-half (3.5) times our
earnings before income tax, depreciation and amortization for any period of
four consecutive quarters. Our credit agreement contains a $200 million
committed credit facility and an “accordion” feature under which the credit
facility may be temporarily increased to $250 million. We pay a quarterly
commitment fee ranging from 0.125% to 0.30% as determined by the leverage ratio
on any unused commitments. The borrowings under the revolving credit agreement
of $52.9 million together with outstanding letters of credit of $5.6 million
result in an unused commitment level of $141.5 million under the facility at December 31,
2006. The $22.7 million Japanese yen denominated note is accounted for as a
hedge of our net investment in a Japanese affiliate.

On July 28, 2005, we concluded a private
placement of $75.0 million in senior floating rate notes. The total amount of
the private placement was divided into two tranches with $50.0 million maturing
on July 28, 2012 (“Series A Notes”) and $25.0 million maturing on July 28,
2015 (“Series B Notes”). The two tranches have interest payable based on
LIBOR rates, with the Series A Notes at LIBOR plus 0.8 percentage points
and the Series B Notes at LIBOR plus 0.9 percentage points. The Series A
and B floating rate notes are subject to an interest rate swap agreement
(discussed in Note 16: Financial Instruments) which effectively fixes the
interest rates payable on these notes at 5.32% and 5.51%, respectively.

On February 27, 2006 we issued Euro-denominated
notes totaling

€

81.5 million. Euro note A
of

€

20.4
million (or $26.8 million at December 31, 2006) has a term of 7 years due February 27,
2013 with a fixed annual interest rate of 4.215% while Euro note B of

€

61.1
million ($80.3 million at December 31, 2006) has a term of 10 years due February 27,
2016 at a fixed annual interest rate of 4.38%. These Euro-denominated notes are
accounted for as a hedge of our investment in our European operations.


Covenants included in our senior debt agreements conform to those in our
revolving credit agreement. As of December 31, 2006, we were in compliance
with all debt covenants.

Interest costs incurred during 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $13.4 million,
$14.7 million and $9.8 million, respectively, of which $0.7 million,

$0.6 million and $1.3 million, respectively, were capitalized as part of the
cost of constructing certain assets.

The aggregate annual
maturities of long-term debt are as follows: 2008 - $0.1 million, 2009—no debt
due, 2010 - $0.7 million, 2011 - $52.9 million, 2012 - $50.0 million, 2013 -
$26.8 million, 2015 - $25.0 million, and 2016 - $80.3 million.

Note 16:   Financial
Instruments

The
following disclosure reflects the estimated fair value of our financial
instruments as of December 31:

Carrying value

Estimated Fair Value





($ in millions)

Cash and cash
  equivalents

$

47.1

$

48.8

$

47.1

$

48.8

Accounts
  receivable

109.5

107.4

109.5

107.4

Short- and
  long-term debt

(236.3

)

(281.0

)

(223.2

)

(286.8

)

Interest rate
  swap contracts

1.9

1.2

1.9

1.2

Forward exchange
  contracts

0.1

0.1

0.1

0.1

Methods used to estimate the fair market values of the
above listed financial instruments are as follows: cash and cash equivalents
and accounts receivable, due to their short maturity, are estimated at carrying
values that approximate market; debt is estimated based on current market
quotes for instruments of similar maturity; interest rate swaps and forward
exchange contracts are valued at published market prices, market prices of
comparable instruments or quotes.

We use interest rate swaps and forward exchange
contracts to minimize the economic exposure related to fluctuating interest and
foreign exchange rates. Derivatives used by us are effective as all of the
critical terms of the derivative instruments match the hedged item.
Effectiveness is measured on a quarterly basis.

On July 28, 2005, we entered into two
interest-rate swap agreements to protect against volatility in the interest
rates payable on Series A and B floating rate notes. The first interest
rate swap agreement has a seven-year term with a notional amount of $50.0
million under which we will receive variable interest rate payments based on
three-month LIBOR in return for making quarterly fixed payments. The second
interest rate swap agreement has a ten-year term with a notional amount of
$25.0 million under which we will receive variable interest rate payments based
on 3-month LIBOR in return for making quarterly fixed payments. The
interest-rate swap agreements effectively fix the interest rates payable on the
Series A and B floating rate notes at 5.32% and 5.51%, respectively.
At December 31, 2006, the interest rate swap agreements had a fair value
of $1.9 million.

As of December 31, 2006, we have a forward
exchange contract of $0.65 million ending on January 11, 2007 that
protects us against the variability in future cash flows related to raw
material purchases by European subsidiaries denominated in U.S. dollars (“USD”).
The terms of the arrangement set a base rate of 1.22 USD per Euro and a limit
rate of 1.35 USD per Euro. We are protected against a strengthening USD by
restricting the exchange rate to the base rate. We would participate in gains
caused by a weakening USD up to the limit rate. If the limit rate is exceeded
at the expiration date, the Company agrees to buy USD at the base rate for that
month. There are no cash payments required and no income statement effect of an
exchange rate between the base and limit rates. As of December 31, 2006,
the Euro


was equal to 1.31 USD. In
addition to the $0.65 million forward exchange contract, we have other forward
currency contracts hedging inventory purchases in Asia with a fair value of
$0.1 million at December 31, 2006.

Note 17:   Stock
Based Compensation

At December 31, 2006, there were approximately 1
million shares of common stock available for future grants under the 2004
Stock-Based Compensation Plan (“the Plan”). The Plan provides for the granting
of stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance awards and bonus and
incentive awards to employees and non-employee directors. A committee of the
Board of Directors determines the terms and conditions of grants, except that
the exercise price of certain options cannot be less than 100% of the fair
market value of the stock on the date of grant. Shares for all stock-based
compensation are issued from stock held in treasury.

The following
table summarizes our stock based compensation expense for the years ended December 31:




($ in millions)

Stock option and
  appreciation rights

$

2.4

$

1.9

$

—

Performance
  vesting shares

3.5

3.7

5.1

Performance
  vesting units

0.2

—

—

Employee stock
  purchase plan

0.2

1.8

—

Deferred
  compensation plans

8.2

0.6

2.3

Total stock based
  compensation expense

$

14.5

$

8.0

$

7.4

We adopted SFAS 123(R) on January 1, 2005, resulting in the
recognition of compensation expense on our stock option and employee stock
purchase plans which did not require expense recognition in 2004 under previous
accounting standards. All stock based compensation expense was recorded as a
selling, general and administrative cost for 2006 and 2004. In 2005, $1.0
million of employee stock purchase plan expense was recorded as part of cost of
goods sold as it related to production employees.

The amount of unrecognized compensation
expense for all nonvested awards as of December 31, 2006, is approximately
$8.6 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period
of 1.6 years. This amount excludes the employee stock purchase plan.

Stock Options

Stock options granted to employees vest in equal
annual increments over 4 years of continuous service, while the stock options
granted to non-employee directors vest one year from the date of grant. All
awards expire ten years from the date of grant. Upon the exercise of stock
options, shares are issued in exchange for the exercise price of the options.

A
summary of changes in outstanding options is as follows:




(in millions, except

per share data)

Options
  outstanding, January 1

3.9

4.2

4.7

Granted

0.3

0.4

0.5

Exercised

(1.4

)

(0.6

)

(1.0

)

Forfeited

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

—

Options
  outstanding, December 31

2.7

3.9

4.2

Options exercisable,
  December 31

1.9

3.0

3.1


Weighted Average Exercise Price




Options
  outstanding, January 1

$

15.44

$

14.22

$

13.52

Granted

33.30

25.46

19.37

Exercised

13.69

14.41

13.78

Forfeited

19.95

10.26

16.42

Options
  outstanding, December 31

$

18.32

$

15.44

$

14.22

Options exercisable,
  December 31

$

15.12

$

13.75

$

13.49

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Range of exercise price per share

Number of Options

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Average

Remaining

Contractual

Life (Years)

Number of

Options

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Average

Remaining

Contractual

Life (Years)

(in millions)

(in millions)

$11.30 - $12.86

0.2

$

11.32

1.5

0.2

$

11.32

1.5

$12.87 - $13.99

1.1

13.34

3.7

1.0

13.38

3.7

$14.00 - $16.42

0.3

14.89

2.8

0.3

14.89

2.8

$16.43 - $28.25

0.8

22.04

7.7

0.4

21.54

2.8

$28.26 - $36.10

0.3

33.36

9.2

—

36.10

9.3

Total

2.7

$

18.32

5.3

1.9

$

15.12

4.1

As of December 31, 2006 the aggregate intrinsic
value of total options outstanding was $90.0 million, of which $66.9 million
represented vested options.

The fair value of the options was estimated on the
date of grant using a Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the
following weighted average assumptions in 2006, 2005 and 2004: a risk-free
interest rate of 4.7%, 4.1% and 3.9%, respectively; stock volatility of 29.3%,
27.9% and 27.7%, respectively; and dividend yields of 1.4%, 1.7% and 2.2%,
respectively. Stock volatility is estimated based on historical data as well as
any expected future trends. Expected lives, which are based on prior
experience, averaged 6 years for options granted in 2006, 2005 and 2004. The
weighted average grant date fair value of options granted in 2006, 2005 and
2004 was $10.86, $7.36 and $5.19, respectively.

For the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, the intrinsic value of options exercised was $34.0 million,
$8.2 million and $5.4 million respectively. The grant date fair value of
options vested during those same periods was $1.9 million, $1.9 million and
$2.1 million, respectively.

Stock Appreciation Rights

In 2006, we offered stock
appreciation rights (“SARs”) to eligible international employees, as an
alternative to stock options. The SARs granted in 2006 vest in equal annual
increments over 4 years of continuous service. All awards expire ten years from
the date of grant. The fair value of each SAR is adjusted at the end of each
reporting period with the resulting change reflected in expense. Upon exercise
of a SAR, the employee receives cash for the difference between the grant price
and the fair market value of the Company’s stock on the date of exercise. As a
result of the cash settlement feature, SAR awards are recognized over their
vesting period as a liability. In February 2006, there were 22,154 SARs
granted at an exercise price of $32.59. All of these awards are outstanding as
of December 31, 2006.

Performance Awards

In addition to stock options and SAR awards, we grant
performance vesting share (“PVS”) awards and performance vesting unit (“PVU”)
awards under the 2004 Stock-Based Compensation Plan. These awards are based on
the Company’s performance against pre-established targets, including annual
growth rate of revenue and return on invested capital (“ROIC”), over a
specified performance period. Depending


on the achievement of the
targets, recipients of PVS awards are entitled to receive a certain number of
shares of common stock, whereas, recipients of PVU awards are entitled to
receive a payment in cash per unit based on the fair market value of a share of
the Company’s common stock at the end of the performance period.

The
following table summarizes our PVS awards outstanding as of December 31,
2006, and changes during the year then ended:

PVS awards

Weighted Average

Grant Date

Fair Value per award

Non-vested PVS
  awards at 12-31-05

319,899

$

21.00

Granted at target
  level

89,012

$

32.69

Above target
  awards

28,950

$

19.41

Vested and
  converted

(144,750

)

$

19.41

Forfeited

(17,966

)

$

22.67

Non-vested PVS awards at
  12-31-06

275,145

$

25.35

PVS awards are granted at target levels assuming 100% achievement
of the revenue-growth and ROIC goals over a three-year performance period. The
actual payout may vary from 0% to 200% of an employee’s targeted amount. The
fair value of PVS awards is based on the market price of the Company’s stock at
the grant date and is recognized as an expense over the performance period. The
weighted average grant date fair value of PVS awards granted during the years
2006, 2005 and 2004 was $32.69, $25.16 and $19.41, respectively. We expect that
the PVS awards will vest at 150% of their target award amounts converting to
424,000 shares to be issued over an average remaining term of 1.6 years.

In addition to the PVS
awards, we granted 7,572 PVU awards in 2006, all of which were outstanding at December 31,
2006. The fair value of PVU awards is based on the market price of the Company’s
stock at the grant date. These awards are revalued at the end of each quarter
based on changes in the Company’s stock price. As a result of the cash
settlement feature, PVU awards are recognized over the performance period as a
liability.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

We also offer an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP)
which provides for the sale of our common stock to substantially all employees
at 85% of the current market price on the last trading day of the offering
period. The ESPP was amended in early 2006, limiting participation to payroll
deductions only, establishing quarterly offering periods and eliminating the “look-back
option” that previously had permitted shares to be purchased at the lower of
our stock price at the beginning or end of the offering period. Payroll
deductions are limited to 25% of the employee’s base salary. In addition,
employees may not buy more than 1,000 shares during any offering period (4,000
shares per year) nor can they buy more than $25 thousand worth of Company stock
in any one calendar year.

Purchases under the ESPP
were 31,719 shares, 261,691 shares and 166,027 shares for the years 2006, 2005
and 2004 respectively. At December 31, 2006, there were approximately 2.5
million shares available for issuance under the ESPP.

Deferred Compensation Plans

Our deferred compensation programs include a
Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, under
which non-employee directors may defer all or part of their annual cash
retainers and meeting fees. The deferred fees may be credited to a
stock-equivalents account. Amounts credited to the stock equivalents account
are converted in common stock-equivalent units based on the fair


market value of one share
of the Company’s common stock on the last day of the quarter. The
stock-equivalent units are ultimately paid in cash at an amount determined by
multiplying the number of stock-equivalent units by the fair market value of
our common stock at the date of termination. Similarly, a non-qualified
deferred compensation plan for designated executive officers provides for the
investment in stock equivalent units of our stock. As of December 31,
2006, the deferred compensation plans held 286,982 stock equivalent units,
which are recorded as a liability due to the cash settlement feature. All stock
equivalent unit liabilities are valued at the closing market price of our stock
at the end of each period with the resulting change in value recorded in our
income statement for the respective period.

In addition, under our
management incentive plan, participants are paid bonuses on the attainment of
certain financial goals, which they can elect to receive in either cash or
shares of our common stock. Executive officers are required to receive 25% of
the value of their bonus, after certain tax adjustments, in shares (“bonus
shares”) of our common stock at current fair market value. Participants are
also given a restricted incentive stock award equal to one share for each four
bonus shares issued. The incentive stock awards vest at the end of four years
provided that the participant has not made a disqualifying disposition of their
bonus shares. Incentive stock award grants were 5,200 shares, 6,900 shares and
14,600 shares in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Incentive stock forfeitures
of 1,900 shares, 1,100 shares and 800 shares occurred in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period based
on the fair market value of common stock on the award date: $32.59 per share
granted in 2006, $25.57 per share granted in 2005 and $18.25 per share granted
in 2004.

Note 18:   Commitments
and Contingencies

At December 31, 2006, we were obligated under
various operating lease agreements with terms ranging from one month to 20
years. Net rental expense in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $11.4 million, $9.8
million and $7.0 million, respectively, and is net of sublease income of $0.7
million annually for the same years.

At December 31,
2006, future minimum rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases
were:

Year

($ in millions)


$

10.7


10.5


9.3


6.5


6.2

Thereafter

21.0

Total

64.2

Less sublease
  income

4.1

$

60.1

At December 31, 2006, outstanding unconditional
contractual commitments for the purchase of raw materials and utilities
amounted to $3.6 million, of which, $3.2 million is due to be paid in 2007.

We have letters of credit totaling $5.6 million
supporting the reimbursement of workers’ compensation and other claims paid on
our behalf by insurance carriers and to guarantee the payment of equipment leases
in Ireland and sales tax liabilities in the United States. Our accrual for
insurance obligations was $2.4 million at December 31, 2006.

On February 2, 2006, we settled a lawsuit filed
in connection with the January 2003 explosion and related fire at our
Kinston, N.C. plant. Our monetary contribution was limited to the balance of
our deductibles under applicable insurance policies, all of which has been
previously recorded in our financial


statements. The settlement
concludes all litigation related to the Kinston accident in which we have been
named a defendant. In regards to the same incident, we continue to be a party,
but not a defendant, in a lawsuit brought by injured workers against a number
of our third-party suppliers. We believe exposure in that case is limited to
amounts we and our workers’ compensation insurance carrier would otherwise be
entitled to receive by way of subrogation from the plaintiffs.

We and several other potentially interested parties
entered into a settlement agreement, effective November 10, 2006, with the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico relating to damages to natural resources resulting
from alleged releases of hazardous substances at an industrial park in Vega
Alta, Puerto Rico. The agreement provides for a release of claims by the
Commonwealth in exchange for a cash settlement payment. As part of the
settlement we agreed to pay $0.45 million.

We have accrued the
estimated cost of environmental compliance expenses related to soil or ground
water contamination at current and former manufacturing facilities. We believe
the accrued liability of $2.0 million at December 31, 2006 is sufficient
to cover the future costs of these remedial actions.

Note 19:   New
Accounting Standards

In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes”, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 “Accounting
for Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”). This interpretation clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes recognized in financial statements. FIN 48
prescribes a more-likely-than-not threshold for financial statement recognition
and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax
return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on de-recognition, classification,
interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and income tax
disclosures. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2006. The provisions of this interpretation must be applied to all tax
positions upon initial adoption of FIN 48. The cumulative effect of applying
the provisions of FIN 48 must be reported as an adjustment to the opening
balance of retained earnings for that fiscal year. Management is in the process
of determining what impact, if any, the adoption of FIN 48 will have on our
financial statements.

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS No. 157”).
This standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair
value in generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), and expands
disclosures about fair value measurements. This standard applies under other
accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. It
does not require any new fair value measurements. This standard is effective
for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Management is in the
process of determining what impact, if any, the adoption of SFAS No. 157
will have on our financial statements.


Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.

We have completed
integrated audits of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.’s consolidated
financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2006 in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule

In our opinion, the
consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15 (a) (1), present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of West Pharmaceutical
Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2006 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule appearing under Item 15 (a) (2) presents fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These
financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of
the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of
financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 1 to
the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which
it accounts for share-based compensation in 2005, the manner in which it
accounts for inventory costing for certain inventories from the
last-in-first-out to the first-in-first-out method in 2006, and the manner in
which it accounts for its defined benefit pension and other postretirement
plans effective December 31, 2006.

Internal control
over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment,
included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,
that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2006 based on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is
fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore,
in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based
on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management’s assessment
and on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over
financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting
includes obtaining an understanding of


internal control over
financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such
other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that
our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers
  LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

February 26, 2007


Quarterly
Operating and Per Share Data (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Full Year

($ in millions, except per share data)


Net sales

$

222.8

$

240.2

$

218.4

$

231.9

$

913.3

Gross profit

66.9

70.5

58.8

65.6

261.8

Income from continuing
  operations

14.3

20.7

11.8

14.7

61.5

Discontinued
  operations, net

3.8

—

1.5

0.3

5.6

Net income

$

18.1

$

20.7

$

13.3

$

15.0

$

67.1

Basic earnings per share

Continuing
  operations

$

0.45

$

0.64

$

0.37

$

0.45

$

1.91

Discontinued operations

0.12

—

0.04

0.01

0.18

$

0.57

$

0.64

$

0.41

$

0.46

$

2.09

Diluted earnings per
  share

Continuing
  operations

$

0.43

$

0.62

$

0.35

$

0.43

$

1.83

Discontinued operations

0.12

—

0.04

0.01

0.17

$

0.55

$

0.62

$

0.39

$

0.44

$

2.00


Net sales

$

149.5

$

173.0

$

181.6

$

195.6

$

699.7

Gross profit

46.4

50.6

43.8

53.0

193.8

Income from continuing
  operations

13.0

12.2

7.1

13.7

46.0

Discontinued
  operations, net

0.3

0.6

0.7

(1.2

)

0.4

Net income

$

13.3

$

12.8

$

7.8

$

12.5

$

46.4

Basic earnings per share

Continuing
  operations

$

0.42

$

0.39

$

0.23

$

0.44

$

1.48

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.02

0.02

(0.04

)

0.01

$

0.43

$

0.41

$

0.25

$

0.40

$

1.49

Diluted earnings per
  share

Continuing
  operations

$

0.41

$

0.38

$

0.22

$

0.41

$

1.41

Discontinued operations

0.01

0.02

0.02

(0.03

)

0.01

$

0.42

$

0.40

$

0.24

$

0.38

$

1.42

Per
common share amounts for the quarters and full years have each been calculated
separately. Accordingly, quarterly amounts may not add to the full year amounts
because of differences in the average common shares outstanding during each
period and, with regard to diluted per common share amounts only, because of
the inclusion of the effect of potentially dilutive securities only in the
periods in which such effect would have been dilutive.

·

Full
year 2006 results include a loss on debt extinguishment associated with the
prepayment of senior notes. See Note “Debt”.

·

Full
year 2006 results include a favorable tax refund associated with the
disposition of our former plastic molding facility in Puerto Rico. See Note “Income
Taxes”.

·

Full
year 2005 results include incremental tax expense associated with the
repatriation of foreign sourced income under the American Jobs Creation Act of
2004. See Note “Income Taxes.”

·

Full
year 2005 results include a restructuring credit associated with the 2004
closure of our plastic device plant located in the U.K. See Note “Restructuring
Charge (Benefit).”

·

Full year 2005 results
include acquisitions completed during the current year. See Note “Acquisitions”.


ITEM 9.

CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES.

Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

An evaluation was
performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), as of the end of the period covered by
this annual report on Form 10-K. Based on this evaluation, our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31,
2006 our disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

Management’s Report
on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The management of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.
(the “Company”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed under the supervision of our principal
executive and principal financial officer to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our
financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.

Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on the
framework established in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework” issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based
on this assessment, management has determined that our internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Our management’s
assessment of effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered pubic accounting firm, as stated in their report, which
is included herein.

Changes in Internal
Controls

There were no changes in
our internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter
ended December 31, 2006 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely
to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B.

OTHER
INFORMATION

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS,
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.

Information about our Directors is incorporated by
reference from the discussion under

Proposal #1: Election of
Directors

of our 2007 Proxy Statement.

Information about our
Audit Committee, including the members of the committee, and our Audit
Committee financial experts, is incorporated by reference from the discussion
under the headings

Governance of the Company—Board
and Committee Membership, Governance of the Company—Audit Committee

and

Governance of the Company—Audit Committee Financial
Experts

in our 2007 Proxy Statement. Information about the West Code
of Business Conduct governing our employees, including our Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, and our
Directors, is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading

Governance of the Company—Code of Business Conduct

in our
2007 Proxy Statement. We intend to post any amendments to, or waivers from, our
Code of Business Conduct on our website, www.westpharma.com. The balance of the
information required by this item is contained in the discussion entitled

Executive Officers of the Company

in Part I
of this 2006 Form 10-K.

ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION.

Information about director
and executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion
under the headings

2006 Compensation of
Non-Employee Directors, Governance of the Company—Board and Committee
Membership, Governance of the Company—Compensation Committee, Compensation
Discussion and Analysis, Summary Compensation Table, 2006 Grants of Plan-Based
Awards, Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year End, Options Exercises and
Stock Vested, Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation, Retirement Plan Benefits and
Employment and Other Agreements

in our 2007 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.

Information required by
this Item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headings

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

and

Equity
Compensation Plan Information

in our 2007 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.

Information called for by
this Item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading

Governance of the Company—Director Qualification Standards and Director
Independence

in our 2007 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES.

Information called for by this Item is incorporated by
reference from the discussions under the headings

Audit
Committee Policy on Approval of Audit and Non-Audit Services

and

Audit and Non-Audit Fees

in our 2007 Proxy Statement.


PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

(a)

1. Financial Statements

The following documents
are included in Part II, Item 8:

Consolidated Statements of
  Income for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for
  the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31,
  2006 and 2005

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for
  the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
  ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

(a)

2. Financial Statement
Schedules

Schedule
II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Balance at

beginning

of period

Charged to

costs and

expenses

Deductions(1)

Balance at

end of

period

($ in millions)

For the year ended
  December 31, 2006

Allowances
  deducted from assets

Deferred tax asset valuation allowance

$

24.3

$

0.4

$

0.6

$

25.3

Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable

1.0

0.1

(0.2

)

0.9

Total allowances deducted from assets

$

25.3

$

0.5

$

0.4

$

26.2

For the year
  ended December 31, 2005

Allowances
  deducted from assets

Deferred tax asset valuation allowance

$

22.9

$

1.9

$

(0.5

)

$

24.3

Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable

0.5

0.6

(0.1

)

1.0

Total allowances deducted from assets

$

23.4

$

2.5

$

(0.6

)

$

25.3

For the year
  ended December 31, 2004

Allowances
  deducted from assets

Deferred tax asset valuation allowance

$

31.1

$

(7.6

)

$

(0.6

)

$

22.9

Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable

0.7

—

(0.2

)

0.5

Total allowances
  deducted from assets

$

31.8

$

(7.6

)

$

(0.8

)

$

23.4

(1)

Includes accounts
receivable written off and translation adjustments.

All other schedules are omitted because they are
either not applicable, not required or because the information required is
contained in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.


(a)

3.
Exhibits

An index of the
exhibits included in this Form 10-K Report or incorporated by
reference is contained on pages F-1 through F-6. Exhibit numbers
10.1 through 10.70 are management contracts or compensatory plans or
arrangements.

(b)

See subsection (a) 3.
above.

(c)

Financial Statements of
affiliates are omitted because they do not meet the tests of a significant
subsidiary at the 20% level.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC.

(Registrant)

By:

/s/ WILLIAM J. FEDERICI

William J. Federici

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 28, 2007


Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ DONALD E. MOREL, JR., PH.D

Director, Chief
  Executive Officer and

February 27, 2007

Donald
  E. Morel, Jr., Ph.D

Chairman of the Board,

(Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ JOSEPH E.
  ABBOTT

Vice President
  and Corporate Controller

February 27,

Joseph
  E. Abbott

(Principal Accounting
  Officer)

/s/ JENNE K.
  BRITELL

Director

February 27,

Jenne
  K. Britell*

/s/ WILLIAM J.
  FEDERICI

Vice President
  and Chief Financial Officer

February 27,

William
  J. Federici

(Principal Financial
  Officer)

/s/ L. ROBERT
  JOHNSON

Director

February 27,

L.

Robert Johnson*

/s/ PAULA A.
  JOHNSON

Director

February 27,

Paula
  A. Johnson*

/s/ WILLIAM H.
  LONGFIELD

Director

February 27,

William
  H. Longfield*

/s/ JOHN P.
  NEAFSEY

Director

February 27,

John
  P. Neafsey*

/s/ ANTHONY
  WELTERS

Director

February 27,

Anthony
  Welters*

/s/ GEOFFREY
  F. WORDEN

Director

February 27,

Geoffrey
  F. Worden*

/s/ ROBERT C.
  YOUNG

Director

February 27,

Robert
  C. Young*

/s/ PATRICK J.
  ZENNER

Director

February 27,

Patrick J.
  Zenner*

*

By John R.
Gailey III pursuant to a power of attorney.


EXHIBIT
INDEX

Exhibit

Number

Description


None.

3.1

Our Amended and
  Restated Articles of Incorporation through January 4, 1999 are
  incorporated by reference from our 1998 10-K report.

3.2

Our Bylaws, as
  amended through March 6, 2004 are incorporated by reference from our 10-Q
  report for the quarter ended March 31, 2004.

4.1

Form of
  stock certificate for common stock is incorporated by reference from our 1998
  10-K report.

4.2

Article 5,
  6, 8(c) and 9 of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation are
  incorporated by reference from our 1998 10-K report.

4.3

Article I
  and V of our Bylaws, as amended through March 6, 2004 are incorporated
  by reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31,
  2004.

4.4(1)

Instruments
  defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of West and its
  subsidiaries have been omitted.


None.

10.1

Lease dated as of
  December 31, 1992 between Lion Associates, L.P. and us relating to the
  lease of our headquarters in Lionville, Pa. is incorporated by reference from
  our 1992 10-K report.

10.2

First Addendum to
  Lease dated as of May 22, 1995 between Lion Associates, L.P. and us is
  incorporated by reference from our 1995 10-K report.

10.3

Lease dated as of
  December 14, 1999 between White Deer Warehousing & Distribution
  Center, Inc. and us relating to the lease of our site in Montgomery, Pa.
  is incorporated by reference from our 2002 10-K report.

10.4

Discounted Stock
  Purchase Plan, as Amended and Restated, dated as of November 5, 1991 is
  incorporated by reference from of our 2002 10-K report.

10.5

Amendment
  No. 1 to Discounted Stock Purchase Plan, effective as of
  December 31, 2001 is incorporated by reference from our 2002 10-K
  report.

10.6(2)

Long-Term
  Incentive Plan, as amended March 2, 1993 (now terminated) is
  incorporated by reference from our 1992 10-K report.

10.7(2)

Amendments to the
  Long-Term Incentive Plan, dated April 30, 1996 are incorporated by
  reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30,
  1996.

10.8(2)

Amendment to the
  Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective October 30, 2001 is incorporated by
  reference from our 2001 10-K report.

10.9(2)

  Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective as of
  April 27, 1999 (now terminated) is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q
  report for the quarter ended June 30, 1999.

10.10(2)

Amendment
  No. 1 to 1999 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
  Directors, effective October 30, 2001 is incorporated by reference from
  our 2001 10-K report.

F-1

10.11(2)

  Management Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q
  report for the quarter ended March 31, 2002.

10.12(2)

2003 Management
  Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference from of our 10-Q report for
  the quarter ended March 31, 2003.

10.13(2)

2004 Management
  Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for
  the quarter ended June 30, 2004.

10.14(2)

Summary of 2005
  Management Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q
  report for the quarter period ended March 31, 2005.

10.15(2)

Summary of 2006
  Management Annual Incentive Bonus Compensation Plan is incorporated by
  reference to Exhibit 99.1 of our Current Report on Form 8-K,
  dated February 17, 2006.

10.16(2)

Form of
  Second Amended and Restated Change-in-Control Agreement between us and
  certain of our executive officers dated as of March 25, 2000 is
  incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended
  March 31, 2000.

10.17(2)

Form of
  Amendment No. 1 to Second Amended and Restated Change-in-Control
  Agreement dated as of May 1, 2001 between us and certain of our
  executive officers is incorporated by reference from our 2001 10-K
  report.

10.18(2)

Schedule of
  agreements with executive officers.

10.19(2)

Non-Competition
  Agreement, dated as of April 30, 2002, between us and William G. Little,
  incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2002.

10.20(2)

Employment Agreement,
  dated as of April 30, 2002, between us and Donald E. Morel, Jr. is
  incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2002.

10.21(2)

Non-Qualified
  Stock Option Agreement, dated as of April 30, 2002 between us and Donald
  E. Morel, Jr. is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report
  for the quarter ended September 30, 2002.

10.22(2)

Supplemental
  Employees’ Retirement Plan is incorporated by reference from our 1989 10-K
  report.

10.23(2)

Amendment
  No. 1 to Supplemental Employees’ Retirement Plan is incorporated by
  reference from our 1995 10-K report.

10.24(2)

Amendment
  No. 2 to Supplemental Employees’ Retirement Plan is incorporated by
  reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30,
  1995.

10.25(2)

Non-Qualified
  Deferred Compensation Plan for Designated Executive Officers as amended and
  restated effective January 1, 2004 is incorporated by reference from our
  2003 10-K report.

10.26(2)

Deferred
  Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, as amended and restated effective
  May 27, 1999 is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for
  the quarter ended September 30, 1999.

10.27(2)

  Stock-Equivalents Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (now
  terminated) is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the
  quarter ended September 30, 1999.

10.28(2)

1998 Key Employee
  Incentive Compensation Plan, dated March 10, 1998 (now terminated) is
  incorporated by reference from our 1997 10-K report.

F-2

10.29(2)

Amendment
  No. 1 to 1998 Key Employees Incentive Compensation Plan, effective
  October 30, 2001 is incorporated by reference from our 2001 10-K
  report.

10.30

Asset Purchase
  Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2001, by and among DFB
  Pharmaceuticals, Inc., DPT Lakewood, Inc., West Pharmaceutical
  Services, Inc., West Pharmaceutical Services Lakewood, Inc.,
  Charter Laboratories, Inc. and Paco Laboratories, Inc. is
  incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K dated
  November 20, 2001.

10.31

Side letter dated
  November 30, 2001 is incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K
  dated November 20, 2001.

10.32(2)

2004 Stock-Based
  Compensation Plan is incorporated by reference from our Proxy Statement for
  the 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

10.33(2)

Form of
  Director 2004 Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement, issued pursuant to
  the 2004 Stock-Based Compensation Plan is incorporated by reference from our
  10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.

10.34(2)

Form of
  Director 2004 Stock Unit Award Agreement, issued pursuant to the 2004
  Stock-Based Compensation Plan is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q
  report for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.

10.35(2)

Form of
  Director 2004 Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, issued pursuant to the
  2004 Stock-Based Compensation Plan is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q
  report for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.

10.36(2)

Form of
  Executive 2004 Bonus and Incentive Share Award Notice, issued pursuant to the
  2004 Stock-Based Compensation Plan is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q
  report for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.

10.37(2)

Form of
  Executive 2004 Performance-Vesting Restricted Share Award Notice, issued
  pursuant to the 2004 Stock-Based Compensation Plan is incorporated by
  reference from of our 10-Q report for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2004.

10.38(2)

Form of
  Executive 2005 Bonus and Incentive Share Award Notice is incorporated by
  reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30,
  2005.

10.39(2)

Form of
  Executive 2005 Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Notice is incorporated by
  reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30,
  2005.

10.40(2)

Form of
  Director 2005 Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Notice is incorporated by
  reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30,
  2005.

10.41(2)

Form of
  Director 2005 Stock Unit Share Award Notice is incorporated by reference from
  our 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30, 2005.

10.42(2)

Form of
  Executive 2006 Bonus and Incentive Share Award is incorporated by reference
  from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.

10.43(2)

Form of
  Executive 2006 Non-Qualified Stock Option Award is incorporated by reference
  from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.

10.44(2)

Form of 2006
  Performance-Vesting Restricted (“PVR”) Share Award is incorporated by
  reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31,
  2006.

F-3

10.45(2)

Form of Director 2006 Non-Qualified Stock
  Option Award Notice is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report
  for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.

10.46(2)

Form of
  Director 2006 Stock Unit Award Notice is incorporated by reference from our
  10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.

10.47

West
  Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
  effective as of June 1, 2003 is incorporated by reference from our Proxy
  Statement for the 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.

10.48

West
  Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. Amended and Restated Employee Stock
  Purchase Plan, effective as of January 1, 2006, is incorporated by
  reference from our 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.

10.49

Extension
  Agreement, dated as of July 8, 2003, to Credit Agreement, dated as of
  July 26, 2000 (the “2000 Credit Agreement”) among us and certain of our
  subsidiaries, the several banks and financial institutions listed on the
  signature pages thereto, and PNC Bank, National Association, as Agent is
  incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended
  June 30, 2003.

10.50

Commitment and
  Acceptance, dated as of July 21, 2003, with respect to the Credit
  Agreement among us and certain of our subsidiaries, Manufacturers and Traders
  Trust Company and PNC Bank, National Association is incorporated by reference
  from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30, 2003.

10.51

Credit Agreement,
  dated as of May 17, 2004 among us, certain of our subsidiaries, the
  banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto and
  PNC Bank, National Association, as Agent is incorporated by reference from
  our 8-K report dated May 28, 2004.

10.52

Third Amendment,
  dated as of February 28, 2006, among us and certain of our direct and
  indirect subsidiaries listed on the signature pages thereto, the several
  banks and other financial institutions parties to the Credit Agreement (as
  defined therein), and PNC Bank, National Association, as Agent for the Banks,
  is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the our Current Report
  on Form 8-K, dated March 3, 2006.

10.53

Multi-Currency
  Note Purchase and Private Shelf Agreement, dated as of February 27,
  2006, among us and The Prudential Insurance Company of America, Prudential
  Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company, Pruco Life Insurance Company, Pruco
  Life Insurance Company of New Jersey, American Skandia Life Assurance
  Corporation and Prudential Investment Management, Inc., is incorporated
  by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Current Report on
  Form 8-K, dated March 3, 2006.

10.54(4)

Agreement,
  effective as of January 1, 2005, between us and The Goodyear
  Tire & Rubber Company is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q
  report for the quarter ended June 30, 2005.

10.55(4)

Supply Agreement,
  dated as of October 1, 2004, between us and Becton, Dickinson and
  Company is incorporated by reference from our 10-K report for the year
  ended December 31, 2005.

10.56

Distributorship
  Agreement, dated January 25, 2007, between us and Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.

10.57

Distributorship
  Agreement, dated January 25, 2007, between Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. and us.

F-4

10.58(4)

Amended
  and Restated Technology Exchange and Cross License Agreement, dated
  January 25, 2007, between us and Daikyo Seiko, Ltd.

10.59(4)

2006-2010
  Worldwide Butyl Polymer Supply/Purchase Agreement, entered into on October 6,
  2006 and effective from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2010,
  between us and ExxonMobil Chemical Company.

10.60(2)

Confidentiality
  and Non-Competition Agreement, dated as of April 7, 2003, between us and
  Bruce S. Morra is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for
  the quarter ended June 30, 2003.

10.61(2)

Amendment to
  Non-Competition Agreement dated as of May 1, 2003, between us and Bruce
  S. Morra is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the
  quarter ended June 30, 2003.

10.62(2)

Letter Agreement
  dated as of January 8, 2005 between us and Bruce S. Morra is
  incorporated by reference from our 2004 10-K report.

10.63(2)

Amendment to
  Letter Agreement, dated as of May 1, 2003, between us and Robert S.
  Hargesheimer is incorporated by reference from our 2003 10-K report.

10.64(2)

Letter Agreement
  dated as of March 30, 2006 between us and Donald E. Morel, Jr.
  is incorporated by reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended
  June 30, 2006.

10.65

First Amendment,
  dated as of May 18, 2005, between us, our direct and indirect
  subsidiaries listed on the signature pages thereto, the several banks
  and other financial institutions parties thereto, and PNC Bank, National
  Association, as Agent for the Banks is incorporated by reference from our 8-K
  report dated May 25, 2005.

10.66

Share and Asset
  Purchase Agreement, dated December 24, 2004 by and among us, West
  Pharmaceutical Services Group, Limited and Archimedes Pharma Ltd. is
  incorporated by reference from our 8-K report dated February 8,
  2005.

10.67

Amendment
  No. 1 to Share and Asset Purchase Agreement, dated December 24,
  2004 by and among West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., West
  Pharmaceutical Services Group, Limited and Archimedes Pharma Ltd. is
  incorporated by reference from our 8-K report dated February 8,
  2005.

10.68

Stock and Asset
  Purchase Agreement, dated April 28, 2005, by and among The Tech
  Group, Inc., us, Steve K. Uhlmann and Haldun Tashman is incorporated by
  reference from our 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31,
  2005.

10.69(3)

Share and
  Interest Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 5, 2005, among us, West
  Pharmaceutical Services of Delaware, Inc., Medimop Medical Projects,
  Ltd., Medimop USA LLC and Freddy Zinger is incorporated by reference from our
  8-K report dated July 8, 2005.

10.70

Note Purchase
  Agreement, dated as of July 28, 2005, among us and each of the
  purchasers listed on Schedule A thereto, is incorporated by reference from
  our 8-K report dated August 3, 2005.

11.

Not Applicable.

12.

Not Applicable.

16.

Not Applicable.

F-5

18.

None.

21.

Subsidiaries of
  the Company.

22.

None.

23.

Consent of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

24.

Powers of
  Attorney.

31.1

Certification by
  the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2

Certification by
  the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1

Certification by
  the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
  Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

Certification by
  Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted
  Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

99.

None.

(1)

We agree to furnish to
the SEC, upon request, a copy of each instrument with respect to issuances of
long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries.

(2)

Management compensatory
plan.

(3)

We agree to furnish to
the SEC, upon request, a copy of each exhibit to this Share and Interest
Purchase Agreement.

(4)

Certain portions of this
exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request
submitted to the SEC.

F-6